STACY, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2024-10-5, passed 10-8-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
Mayor             Mark Utecht
Council members   Carolyn Cagle
                 Jeff Barrett
                 Tim Sawatzky
                 Dennis Thieling
City Engineer     Dan Boyum of Stantec
City Attorney     James Mongé of Campbell Knutson, P.A.
City Clerk        Tanya Smolke
Deputy City Clerk Angie Comstock
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02    Rules of interpretation
   
10.03    Application to future ordinances
   
10.04    Captions
   
10.05    Definitions
   
10.06    Severability
   
10.07    Reference to other sections
   
10.08    Reference to offices
   
10.09    Errors and omissions
   
10.10    Official time
   
10.11    Reasonable time
   
10.12    Ordinances repealed
   
10.13    Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14    Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15    Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16    Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17    Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18    Copies of code
   
10.19    Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Authority to conduct public hearing
 
   
10.99    General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
"city code," for which designation "code of ordinances," "codified ordinances,"
"code," or "Stacy Code" may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the Traffic Code." Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation "§" followed by the number, such as:
"§ 10.01." Headings and captions used in this code other than the title,
chapter, and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Stacy, Minnesota. The term CITY when used in this code
may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Stacy, Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Chisago County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT PUBLIC HEARING.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to hold any public hearing otherwise
delegated to the City Planning Commission pursuant to the City Code in the
event the Planning Commission is unable to hold such public hearing in a timely
manner.
(Ord. 2007-6-2, passed 6-26-2007)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   FORM OF GOVERNMENT
      
31.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
32.   PERSONNEL
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   CITY FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: FORM OF GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02    Presiding officer
   
30.03    Minutes
   
30.04    Order of business
   
30.05    Quorum and voting
   
30.06    Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
30.07    Committees
   
30.08    Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.09    Compensation of Mayor and Council members
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the
second Tuesday of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m. Any regular meeting falling
upon a holiday shall be held on the next business day at the same time and
place. All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in
the City Hall unless as specifically posted otherwise.
   (B)   Special meetings. The Mayor or any 2 members of the Council may call a
special meeting of the Council, or a special emergency meeting of the Council,
as permitted by Minnesota statutes. Notice shall be delivered personally to
each Council member at least 24 hours in advance of the special meeting, or
within such shorter period of time for an emergency special meeting as required
under the circumstance. Alternatively, the notice for a special meeting may be
left at each Council member’s usual place of residence with some responsible
person. Notice to the public shall be given in accordance with the provision of
M.S. § 13D.04, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of the city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose 1 of the Council members as acting mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualifies;
      (4)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions, and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   Public meetings. Except as otherwise provided by law, all Council
meetings, including special and adjourned meetings and meetings of Council
committees, shall be open to the public.
(Prior Code, § 201.01) (Am. Ord. 2002-2-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2011-3-2,
passed 3-8-2011)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the acting mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the
Council members present at the meeting choose 1 of their number to act
temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert's Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or
her ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion.
The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions, or speak on any question except that on demand of any Council
member he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
(Prior Code, § 201.02)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the Clerk
or, in his or her absence, by the Utility Billing Clerk. In the absence of
both, the presiding officer shall appoint a Secretary pro tem. Ordinances,
resolutions, and claims need not be recorded in full in the minutes if they
appear in other permanent records of the Clerk and can be accurately identified
from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the Clerk, and copies thereof shall be delivered to
each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At the next
regular Council meeting following such delivery, approval of the minutes shall
be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud, but the
presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there is no
objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a vote
of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Prior Code, § 201.03) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the
following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Additions to the agenda;
      (4)   Public comment and/or public hearings;
      (5)   Consent agenda;
      (6)   Staff reports;
      (7)   Committees/commissions;
      (8)   Notices and communications;
      (9)   Old business;
      (10)   New business;
      (11)   Mayor/Council business;
      (12)   Adjourn.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer, but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing.
   (C)   Agenda. The Clerk shall prepare an agenda for each regular Council
meeting. The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the order of business,
and copies thereof shall be delivered to each Council member as far in advance
of the meeting as time for preparation will permit. No item of business shall
be considered unless it appears on the agenda for the meeting or is approved
for addition to the agenda by a unanimous vote of the Council members present.
(Prior Code, § 201.04) (Am. Ord. 20002-04-2, passed 4-9-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-5-
4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings a majority of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payment of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked
"Present - Not Voting."
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(Prior Code, § 201.05)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk, and filed
by him in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every
ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (B)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
   (C)   Motions, petitions, communications.
      (1)   Every motion shall be stated in full before it is submitted to a
vote by the presiding officer and shall be recorded in the minutes. Every
petition or other communication addressed to the Council shall be in writing
and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council unless the Council
dispenses with the reading.
      (2)   Each petition or other communication shall be recorded in the
minutes by title and filed in the office of the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 201.06) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees. The Council may create such committees, standing or
special, as it deems necessary. The Mayor shall appoint the members and the
committee shall appoint the Chairperson of any committee created by the
Council.
   (B)   Membership. The Council shall establish the number of Council members
who shall serve on each committee at the time of the committee's creation. Each
committee member shall serve as appointed and may be removed from the committee
by a majority of the members of the Council without cause. If a committee
member is absent for 3 or more committee meetings within the calendar year
without a valid excuse by the committee Chair, the absent committee member
shall be removed by the Council. If the committee does not provide otherwise,
committee meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson.
   (C)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee appointed by him or her for a written
report and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a whole.
Each committee shall act promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
   (D)   Definition of non-resident city property taxpayer. Non-resident city
property taxpayers must have a personal financial interest in which taxes are
paid. Examples include sole proprietorships, or corporations in which financial
gain or loss of a company is reflected on their personal tax return. W2 or 1099
office holders of companies or corporations are not included as a non-resident
taxpayer. Any person who pays property taxes to the City of Stacy but does not
have a residence within the city limits.
(Ord. 2008-8-3, passed 8-26-2008; Am. Ord. 2019-2-2, passed 2-12-2019; Am. Ord.
2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019; Am. Ord. 2024-3-1, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 30.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 201.08)
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   The compensation of the Mayor and the compensation of each Council member
shall be established pursuant to M.S. § 415.11 as set forth in this section
below.
   (A)    Regular meetings. The Mayor shall receive an annual salary as set
forth in the current city fee schedule which shall cover all regular City
Council meetings for the calendar year. Each Council member shall receive an
annual salary as set forth in the current city fee schedule which shall cover
all regular City Council meetings during the calendar year.
   (B)   Special Council meetings and other city meeting attendance. Subject to
the limitation in this section, the Mayor and Council shall receive pay for
special meetings in the city and special meetings outside of the city in the
amounts set forth in the current city fee schedule. Special meetings are
defined for purposes of these section as special Council meetings and other
special meetings which the Mayor or any Council member is directed and
authorized to attend by the City Council. Special meeting pay shall be limited
to the annual amount as set forth in the current city fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 201.09) (Am. Ord. 2002-7-4, passed 7-9-2002; Am. Ord. 2011-11-4,
passed 11-9-2011)
CHAPTER 31: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Establishment of Commission
   
31.02   Composition
   
31.03   Organization, meetings
   
31.04   Powers and duties
   
31.05   Public hearings
   
31.06   Plats; approval
   
31.07   Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
31.08   Compensation of members and alternates
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A City Planning Commission for the city is established. The Commission shall
be the city planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354, subd. 1, as amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 202.01)
§ 31.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Membership. The City Planning Commission shall consist of 5 members.
One of the members, but not more than 2 of the members, may be Council members.
The City of Stacy may allow 1 member as a non-resident city property taxpayer
(as defined in §
30.07) with the following stipulation that non-resident city taxpayers cannot
sit as committee chair. Two alternate members may be appointed by the City
Council in addition to the 5 regular members. An alternate member may serve as
a voting member of the Planning Commission for an absent regular member,
subject to a maximum of 5 voting members. The members and alternate members of
the Planning Commission shall be appointed by and may be removed by the
Council.
   (B)   Term, vacancies, oath. Of the members of the Commission first
appointed, 1 shall be appointed for a term of 1 year, 1 for a term of 2 years,
1 for a term of 3 years, and 1 for a term of 4 years. Their successors shall be
appointed for terms of 4 years. Both original and successive appointees shall
hold their offices until their successors are appointed and qualified.
Alternate members shall be appointed for a term of 1 year each. Vacancies
during the term shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the
term. Every appointed member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his
or her duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties
of his or her office.
(Prior Code, § 202.02) (Am. Ord. —, passed 6-8-1999; Am. Ord. 2010-9-3, passed
9-14-2010; Am. Ord. 2024-3-2, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 31.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS.
   (A)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of 1 year; and the Commission may create and fill
such other offices as it may determine. The City Clerk shall act as Secretary
of the Planning Commission, but he shall not be a member.
   (B)   Meetings, records, reports. The Commission shall hold at least 1
regular meeting each month. It shall keep a record of its resolution,
transactions, and findings, which record shall be a public record. Expenditures
of the Commission shall be within the amount appropriated for the purpose by
the City Council.
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties given planning
agencies generally by law. The Commission shall also exercise the duties
conferred upon it by this subchapter and by the Council. After the Commission
has prepared and adopted a Comprehensive Plan, the Commission shall
periodically but at least once every 2 years (odd years, January following a
general election the prior year) review the Comprehensive Plan and ordinances
as necessary and any capital improvement program the Council has adopted to
implement the plan. After such review, it shall, to the extent it deems
necessary, revise the Comprehensive Plan, adopt the amendments or the new
comprehensive plan, and recommend it to the Council in accordance with law.
Similarly, after such review, it shall recommend to the Council any amendments
it deems desirable to the capital improvement program and any ordinance
implementing the plan.
(Prior Code, § 202.04) (Am. Ord. 2022-5-1, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 31.05 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The Planning Commission may hold public hearings upon notice as provided in
M.S. § 462.357, subd. 3, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 202.05)
§ 31.06 PLATS; APPROVAL.
   Any subdivision plat submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to
final approval, be referred to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation. Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission with its recommendations within 30 days and failure of the
Commission to report within that period is deemed to have satisfied the
requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 202.06)
§ 31.07 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   The City Council shall act as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals pursuant
to §
153.187.
(Prior Code, § 202.07) (Am. Ord. 2012-9-2, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 31.08 COMPENSATION OF MEMBERS AND ALTERNATES.
   Planning Commission members and alternates appointed by the City Council
shall be compensated for attendance at each regular and special Planning
Commission meeting in an amount as set forth in Chapter 34 of the City Code.
(Ord. 2013-2-1, passed 2-12-2013)
CHAPTER 32: PERSONNEL
Section
   
32.01   Personnel policy
   
32.02   Office of the City Clerk
   
32.03   Office of the City Treasurer
§ 32.01 PERSONNEL POLICY.
   The City Council shall by resolution adopt a personnel policy to establish a
uniform and equitable system of personnel administration for employees of the
city. A copy of the Personnel Policy and any changes or amendments thereto
shall be on file with the City Clerk. One copy of the Personnel Policy and any
changes or amendments thereto shall be given to each employee of the city.
(Prior Code, § 204.01) (Am. Ord. 116, passed 12-30-1996)
§ 32.02 OFFICE OF THE CITY CLERK.
   (A)   General. The City Clerk shall be appointed by the Council for an
indefinite term. The City Clerk shall serve as the Clerk of the City Council.
   (B)   Duties. The City Clerk shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   The duties of Clerk as set forth in M.S. § 412.151, as amended and
as it may be further amended, and which is hereby incorporated by reference;
      (2)   Supervision of office staff; and
      (3)   Such other duties as shall be assigned from time to time by the
City Council.
(Ord. 2005-11-1, passed 11-8-2005; Am. Ord. 2024-8-1, passed 8-14-2024)
§ 32.03 OFFICE OF THE CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   General. The City Treasurer shall be appointed by the Council for an
indefinite term.
   (B)   Duties. The City Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   The duties of a treasurer as set forth in M.S. § 412.141, as
amended and as it may be further amended, and which is hereby incorporated by
reference;
      (2)   Supervision of office staff; and
      (3)   Such other duties as shall be assigned from time to time by the
City Council.
(Ord. 2024-8-1, passed 8-14-2024)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions;
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an indefinite term
and may be removed by the Council at any time. The "acting mayor" shall cover
the Director's duties if the Director is unable to discharge their duty, or no
individual has been assigned as Director. The Director shall serve with a
salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct responsibility for the
organization, administration and operation of the emergency preparedness
organization, subject to the direction and control of the Council.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Council, shall represent the
city on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall assist the county in making studies and surveys of
the human resources, industries, resources, and facilities of the city as
deemed necessary to determine their adequacy for emergency management and to
plan for their most efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The
Director shall assist the county in establishing the economic stabilization
systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and sub-boards required, in
accordance with state and federal plans and directions subject to the approval
of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall assist the county in instituting training programs, public information
programs and conduct practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be
necessary to assure prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan
when a disaster occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Council.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of 3 days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the City Clerk's office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the City
Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area
as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council
may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are declared
to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not affect
the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise be
entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or under
any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 2019-11-2, passed 11-12-2019)
CHAPTER 34: CITY FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
34.01   Fees
   
34.02   Administrative fees
   
Appendix:   Building code fee schedule
§ 34.01 FEES.
   The fees contained in the City Code are as set forth in the fee schedule set
forth below. To the extent not included in the fee schedule as set forth below,
the fees set forth in the Code shall remain in full force and effect. The
Council may, by resolution from time to time, adopt an amended fee schedule.
Costs referred to herein shall include all administrative, technical,
engineering, and legal expenses.
Code Section Item Cost
Code Section   Item                                                                             Cost
               Salary of Mayor; $60.00 per regular and special meeting attended both in and out
               of town.
               Salary of Council; $60.00 per regular and special meeting attended both in and
30.09          out of town.                                                                     $2,700/year
               Any Council representative attending the Chisago Lakes Joint Sewage Treatment    $2,200/year
               Commission (CLJSTC) meetings shall be paid a combination CLJSTC compensation and
               committee meeting compensation to equal the amount of regular committee meeting
               compensation.
               Planning Commission members and alternates duly appointed by the City Council
31.08          shall be compensated for attendance at each regular and special Planning         $60.00/meeting
               Commission meeting
Administrative (§§ 34.02/95.07):
               Copying                                                                          $.25/page
               Fax                                                                              $2.00/fax
               Notary                                                                           $1.00/per
                                                                                                document
               Copy of City Code                                                                $150.00
               Clerk research services (Administration)                                         $50.00/hour
               Returned check charge                                                            $35.00
               Building permit review form application for zoning compliance - Engineer review  $50.00
                                                                                                $175.00
               Repeat nuisance call fee                                                         $25.00
               Maintenance services                                                             $75.00/hour
Utility Fees:
50.03          Voluntary shut-off/activation of water service                                   $100.00
               Connection fee for:                                                               
50.04             Water main                                                                 $55.00
                  Sewer main                                                                 $55.00
50.05          Involuntary shut-off of water service                                            $100.00
50.07          Water availability charge (WAC)                                                  $2,672.00
               Sewer availability charge (SAC)                                                  $4,855.00
               Water meter deposit:                                                              
51.21/            5/8” meter                                                               @ rate
51.27             1” meter                                                                 @ rate
                  2” meter                                                                 @ rate
                  Copper horn                                                                @ rate
              Meter inspection                                                                 $30.00
                                                                                                $100.00/ month
51.22          Fine for refusing repair or replacement of a water meter                         $500.00, plus
               Fine for meter tampering                                                         expense of
                                                                                                repair
51.23          Meter testing deposit                                                            $100.00
51.55          Water rate schedule:                                                              
              Single family residential, multiple family residential per unit, manufactured     
               home park residential per unit, light commercial, and heavy commercial:
                 Base unit charge per month                                                 $6.80
                 Use rate charges per month per 1,000 gallonss:                              
                    1 - 6,000 gallons                                                    $4.96
                    6,001 - 12,000 gallons                                               $6.20
                    12,001 - 24,000 gallons                                              $7.78
                    24,000 gallons or more                                               $11.66
                                                                                                10% plus
50.08/52.23    Utility account late fee:                                                        monthly
               Carrying charge on unpaid balances over 30 days                                  administrative
                                                                                                fee of $12.00
52.03          Sewer rates:                                                                      
               Single family residential, multiple family residential per unit, manufactured     
               home park residential per unit, light commercial, and heavy commercial:
                 Base unit charge per month:                                                $40.70
                 Use rate charges per month per 1,000 gallons                               $5.46
              Septic Permits:                                                                   
                  Tank(s) pumping                                                            Per contractor
                 Maintenance report administrative fee                                      $10.00
91.06          Burn permits:                                                                     
               Open burning permits                                                             $25.00
Licensing:                                                                                      
              Pet License:                                                                      
                                                                                                $15.00 altered
92.21          Dog license/cat license                                                          $20.00 non-
                                                                                                altered
92.24          Penalty for not obtaining a dog license                                          $25.00 per dog
               Chicken and/or duck license:                                                      
92.19          Chicken and/or duck certificate of compliance and inspection fee                 $50.00
               Annual inspection fee                                                             
                                                                                                $50.00
               Adult Establishments:                                                             
96.04(B)(3)    Annual license fee for adult establishments                                      $3,000.00
96.04(B)(5)    City cost reimbursement deposit by applicant for adult use application           $500.00
               investigation
96.04(B)(5)    City cost reimbursement deposit by applicant for adult use application           $1,500.00
               investigation (outside Minnesota)
               Liquor License:                                                                   
112.22         Annual wine license                                                              $1,250.00
               Annual on-sale liquor license                                                    $2,500.00
              Annual Sunday liquor license                                                     $200.00
               Annual micro-brewery or distillery                                               $100.00
              Annual taproom                                                                   $1,250.00
112.23         Off-sale liquor license, temporary                                               $100.00
               On-sale liquor license                                                           $5.00 per day
              Annual 3.2 permit                                                                $100.00
112.25         Application for on-sale license, includes tap rooms and micro-breweries          $100.00, plus
                                                                                                costs
112.05         Tobacco license:                                                                 $150.00
               Annual tobacco license
              Penalties for licensees:
111.14(A)(1)   First violation                                                                  $250.00
111.14(A)(2)   Second violation (within 24-month period)                                        up to $500.00
111.14(A)(3)   Third violation (within 24-month period)                                         up to $750.00
111.14(A)(4)   Fourth violation (within 24-month period)                                        up to
                                                                                                $1,000.00
              Penalties for other individuals:
111.14(B)(1)   First violation                                                                  up to $50.00
111.14(B)(2)   Second violation (within 24-month period)                                        up to $100.00
111.14(B)(3)   Third violation (within 36-month period)                                         up to
                                                                                                $1,000.00
115.04(D)      Peddler license:
              Peddler, solicitor or transient merchant license application fee:
                 Three-day license                                                          $50.00
                 Annual license                                                             $150.00
              Parking permit - residential:
153.121        Parking in residential districts                                                 $50.00
Land Use:
93.40 -        Right of way management:
93.61
              Registration fee                                                                 $40.00
              Excavation permit fee driveway                                                   $75.00
              Excavation permit fee hole                                                       $125.00
              Excavation permit fee emergency hold                                             $55.00
                                                                                                $70.00/linear
              Excavation permit fee trench                                                     foot plus hole
                                                                                                fee
                                                                                                $50.00 plus
              Obstruction permit fee                                                           $.05 per
                                                                                                linear foot
              Permit extension fee                                                             $55.00
              Delay penalty                                                                    $60.00 plus
                                                                                                $10.00/day
               Building permits
               •   Signs                                                                    
                  Freestanding signs (structures) reviewed by Chisago County - per their fee  
               schedule
                  Sign permits reviewed by staff (includes admin fee)                        $50.00
                  Sign permits reviewed by Engineer (includes admin fee)                     $175.00
150.01         •   Fence
                  Fences greater than 6 feet in height are issued by Chisago County - per their
               fee schedule
                  Fence permits reviewed by staff                                            $50.00
                  Fence permits reviewed by City Engineer                                    $175.00
               Swimming Pool:
               Over 5,000 gallons - Chisago County issues the permit
               Swimming pool permits reviewed by staff                                          $50.00
              Swimming pool permits reviewed by City Engineer                                  $175.00
              Zoning application fees:                                                          
151.15         Subdivision application                                                          $90.00, plus
                                                                                                deposit
              Escrow deposit for subdivision shall be as follows:                               
                 Admin. lot split                                                           $2,000.00
                 Plat 1 - 5 lots (if no public improvements)                                $3,000.00
                 Plat 1 - 5 lots                                                            $5,000.00
                 Plat 6 - 20 lots                                                           $15,000.00
                 Plat 21+ lots (case-by-case basis)                                         $25,000.00
                                                                                                minimum
                 Commercial/                                                                $15,000.00
                  Industrial site plan (on existing lot)
153.023        Annexation - Deposit for petition for annexation                                 $15,000.00
153.188        Variance                                                                         $90.00, plus
                                                                                                deposit
153.189        Conditional use permit                                                           $90.00, plus
                                                                                                deposit
               Interim use permit                                                               $90.00, plus
153.190        Annual renewal fee                                                               deposit
                                                                                                $25.00
153.191        Zoning amendment                                                                 $90.00, plus
                                                                                                deposit
153.193        Site plan review                                                                 $17,000.00
153.086        Erosion control and landscape standards                                          $5,000.00
155.04         Original fire inspection fee                                                     $50.00
               Annual inspection fee                                                            $30.00/hour
Miscellaneous:                                                                                  
              Engineering Design Standards                                                     $200.00/paper
                                                                                                $50.00 CD
              Electronic aerials and contours per acre, 1 acre minimum                         $20.00/acre
               1/2 section color aerial maps (22 x 34)
              1/2 section color aerial w/ parcel information (22 x 34)                         $50.00
               1/2 section color aerial w/ contour information (22 x 34)
                
               Color aerial (11 x 17)
              Color aerial (8.5 x 11)                                                          $25.00
               Color aerial with parcel or contours (11 x 17)
               Color aerial with parcel or contours (8.5 x 11)
              Gopher bounty w/ evidence of a pair of back feet and tail                        $3.00
Lent Town Hall Rentals:
Type of event  City of Stacy (Resident/Non-Profits)                                             City of Stacy
                                                                                                (Non-Resident)
Application-
fee (non-      $100.00                                                                          $100.00
refundable)
Damage deposit $400.00                                                                          $400.00
Non-public     $600.00                                                                          $950.00
event
Public event   $800.00                                                                          $1,050.00
Daytime event
(5 hour max.,
must end no    $200.00                                                                          $450.00
later than 6:
00 p.m.)
Woods Room (3  $40.00                                                                           $60.00
hour minimum)
Hall ceiling
decor or       $75.00                                                                           $75.00
lights
Replacement
fee for lost   $25.00                                                                           $25.00
key fob
 
(Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-01-04, passed 1-10-2006; Am.
Ord. 2006-3-3, passed 3-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-3-4, passed 3-28-2006; Am. Ord.
2007-1-3, passed 1-9-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-1-24, passed 1-23-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-
1-1, passed 1-10-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-2-2, passed  2-26-2008; Am. Ord. 2008-8-1,
passed 8-12-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-3-1, passed 1-13-2009; Am. Ord. 2009-7-2,
passed 8-11-2009; Am. Ord. 2010-1-1, passed 1-12-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-4-1,
passed 4-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-3-2,
passed 3-8-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-6-3, passed 6-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-7-1, passed
7-12-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-11-2, passed 11-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2011-11-4, passed 11-
9-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-10-2, passed 10-9-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-1-3, passed 1-8-
2013; Am. Ord. 2013-2-1, passed 2-12-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013;
Am. Ord. 2014-1- 3, passed 1-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 5-13-2014; Am.
Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-8-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-6-4, passed 6-10-2014; Am. Ord.
2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-1-2, passed 1-12- 2016; Am. Ord.
2017-1-2, passed 1-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-3-1, passed 3-14-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-
3-3, passed 2-12-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-3-2, passed 3-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-1-3,
passed 1-12-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-12-8, passed 12-14-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-2-1,
passed 2-8-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-5-14, passed 5-10-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-1-1,
passed 1-10-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-12-6, passed 1-10-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-3-5,
passed 3-12-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-5-2, passed 5-6-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-10-5,
passed 10-8-2024)
§ 34.02 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.
   The city establishes administrative fees for copying, facsimile
transmission, notary public services, ordinance book purchase cost, and City
Clerk research services, in the amounts set forth in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003; Am. Ord. 2007-1-24, passed 1-23-2007; Am.
Ord. 2008-1-1, passed 1-10-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-1-1, passed 1-12-2010; Am. Ord.
2011-11-2, passed 11-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-1-3, passed 1-14-2014; Am. Ord.
2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-1-2, passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-
1-2, passed 1-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-3-3, passed 2-12-2019; Am. Ord. 2021-12-8,
passed 12-14-2021)
APPENDIX:BUILDING CODE FEE SCHEDULE
   Valuation Based Fee Permits
   (Permits not identified to have a fixed fee shall have a fee based on
valuation)
Permit fees based on project value include:
   •   Commercial & Residential Building Permits
   •   Commercial & Residential Demolition Permits
   •   Commercial & Residential Fire Protection Permits
   •   Commercial Mechanical Permits
   •   Commercial Plumbing Permits
   •   Manufactured/Moved-in/Modular Structure Foundation Permits
   •   Retaining Walls over 4 feet, Fences over 7 feet, Sheds over 200 square
feet, In-ground Swimming Pool
Total Valuation Fee
Total Valuation              Fee
Up to $2,000                 $83.50
                             $83.50 for the first $2,000.00, plus $16.55 for
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00      each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $25,000.00
                             $464.15 for the first $25,000, plus $12.00 for
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00     each additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to
                             and including $50,000.00
                             $764.15 for the first $50,000, plus $8.45 for each
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00    additional $1,000.00, or fraction thereof, to and
                             including $100,000.00
                             $1,186.65 for the first $100,000.00, plus $6.75
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00   for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction
                             thereof, to and including $500,000.00
                             $3,886.65 for the first $500,000.00, plus $5.50
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00 for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction
                             thereof, to and including $1,000,000.00
                             $6,636.65 for the first $1,000,000.00, plus $4.50
$1,000,001.00 and up         for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction
                             thereof.
 
*Pursuant to MN Rules Chapter 1300.0160 subpart 3, Building permit valuations
shall be set by the Building Official. For determining the permit valuation,
the Building Official will use the supplied valuation with a minimum value as
calculated by the current Building Valuation Data Table, published each May be
the Department of Labor and Industry and other data, as needed, for projects
not otherwise specified.
   State Surcharge Fees
State Surcharge: Based on the currently adopted State Surcharge Table - per MN
Statute 326B
   •   State Surcharge is applicable on all permits, unless otherwise noted.
   Other Fees Related to Permits, Inspections, and Administration
Change of Use Permit                                                                $100.00
                                                                                    $2,000.00
                                                                                    for
Temporary Certificate of Occupancy (C/O) - Escrow (less costs to administer)        Residential
                                                                                    $5,000.00
                                                                                    for
                                                                                    Commercial
Plan Review For all projects where plans, specifications, or code review or         65% of
analysis is required (as determined by the building official)                       Permit Fee
Plan Review when there is a Master Plan
   •   When approved, the review fee shall not exceed 25% of the permit fee 25% of
submittal documents reviewed using a Master Plan set.                               Permit Fee
   •   The review fee for a Master Plan set shall be 65% of the permit fee.
Review of State Approved Construction Documents                                     25% of Plan
                                                                                    Review Fee
                                                                                    $95.00/hr.
Additional Plan Review                                                              $47.50
                                                                                    Minimum
Residential Site Inspection (required for new permanent buildings)                  $65.00
Commercial Site Inspection (required for new permanent buildings)                   $95.00
                                                                                     
S.E.C. (Sediment & Erosion Control)                                                 .006 of
   •   New structures that disturb soils                                    Permit Fee
   •   Residential Additions                                                $150.00
   •   Exemptions: Projects the disturb minimal soils (e.g., deck, porch, siminimum
                                                                                    $50.00
                                                                                    minimum
Pre-Final inspection (new home or structure)                                        $75.00
 
Re-inspection
A re-inspection fee may be assessed:
   •   Each inspection or re-inspection when the work for which the inspection was
scheduled is not complete at the time of the scheduled inspection. For valuation-based
building permits, this fee is not assessed the first time an inspection fails, and a
re-inspection is required.
   •   When the address of the jobsite is not posted.
   •   When the inspection record card is not posted or provided at the worksite.
   •   When the approved plans are not readily available for the inspector.    $63.25
   •   Then access to conduct the inspection is not provided.
   •   When the inspector is not met by the individual responsible (no show).
   •   When corrections are required to be re-inspected for residential maintenance
permits.
   •   When work completed has deviated from the approved plans without prior approval
from the building inspections department.
   •   Re-inspection fees are due on or before the scheduled re-inspection.
   •   Payment shall be made payable to the Municipality.
                                                                                       $63.25/
Inspections outside of normal business hours                                           hour
   •   Includes travel time both ways                                          (min
                                                                                       charge 2
                                                                                       hours)
Inspections for which no fee is indicated                                              See
   •   Miscellaneous and Special Services                                      Contract
Special Investigation                                                                  100% of
   •   Applicable when work was started prior to obtaining a permit            Permit
   •   This fee is due regardless of whether a permit is issued.               Fee
Contractor License Look-Up                                                             $5.00
Lead Certification Look-Up                                                             $5.00
Copy charge (black/white 8-1/2 x 11 and 8-1/2 x 14)                                    $0.25/
                                                                                       side
Copy charge (black/white 11 x 17)                                                      $0.50/
                                                                                       side
Copy charge (color 8-1/2 x 11 and 8-1/2 x 14)                                          $1.00/
                                                                                       side
Copy charge (color 11 x 17)                                                            $2.00/
                                                                                       side
Print or copy charge (large plan sheet)                                                $4.00/
                                                                                       sheet
Duplicate permit card & inspection record                                              $25.00
 
 
                                                                                  50% of
Permit Renewal within 6 mos. of expiration (no plan changes, no code changes, new the
permit number)                                                                    original
                                                                                  Permit
                                                                                  Fee
                                                                                   
Refunds & Fee Adjustments:                                                        No
   •   Plan review                                                        refund
   •   Building Maintenance Permit Fee                                    No
   •   Permit Fee (work started)                                          refund
   •   Permit Fee (permit processed & ready to issue)                     No
   •   Permit Fee (work not started & within 6 months of permit issuance) refund
                                                                                  80%
                                                                                  60%
 
* If the actual hourly cost to the jurisdiction under paragraph (c) is greater
than $63.25, then the greater rater shall be paid. Hourly cost shall include
supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and fringe benefits of the
employees involved. (*items are in paragraph (c))
(Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003; Am. Ord. 2007-1-24, passed 1-23-2007; Am.
Ord. 2008-1-1, passed 1-10-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-1-1, passed 1-12-2010; Am. Ord.
2011-11-2, passed 11-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-1-3, passed 1-14-2014; Am. Ord.
2015-1-1, passed 1-13-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-1-2, passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-
1-2, passed 1-10-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-3-3, passed 2-12-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-3-2,
passed 3-10-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-1-3, passed 1-12-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-12-8,
passed 12-14-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-5-14, passed 5-10-2022)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM
      
52.   SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
CHAPTER 50: PUBLIC WORKS
Section
   
50.01   Water and Sewer Department
   
50.02   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
50.03   Applications for service
   
50.04   Charges for service connections
   
50.05   Accounting, billing, and collecting
   
50.06   Protection of public and city
   
50.07   Sewer/water availability charge
   
50.08   Carrying charge
§ 50.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   There is established a Water and Sewer Department, which shall be under the
supervision of the Council. The Department shall be responsible for the
management, maintenance, care, and operation of the water works and sanitary
sewerage system of the city.
(Prior Code, § 401.01)
§ 50.02 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any water or sewer service installation
connected to the city water or sewer system except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any such
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 401.02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Application for a water or sewer service installation and
for water service shall be made to the Clerk on forms prescribed by the Council
and furnished by the city. By this signature, the applicant shall agree to
conform to this chapter and to rules ad regulations that may be established by
the city as conditions for the use of water.
   (B)   Fees or deposit. Application for a service installation shall be made
by the owner of the property to be served or by his or her agent. The applicant
shall at the time of making application pay to the city the amount of the fees
or deposit required for the installation of the service connection as set forth
in the city fee schedule. When a water service connection has been installed,
application for water service may be made either by the owner or his or her
agent or by the tenant or occupant of the premises. In the event of request for
voluntary shut off or reactivation of water or sewer, the party so requesting
shall pay a fee as set forth in the city fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 401.03) (Am. Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003)
§ 50.04 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit and fee. No connection shall be made to the city water or
sanitary sewer system without a permit received from the Clerk. The fee for
each permit for the water main connection and for a sewer connection permit
shall be as set forth in the city fee schedule. These fees shall be in addition
to any fees required under division (B) of this section.
   (B)   Connection fees. When a connection requires installation of a service
line from the main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay a
water main connection fee and a sewer main connection fee as set forth in the
city fee schedule. The applicant will also be responsible for street and
sidewalk repairs made necessary by the connection, which repairs shall be to
the satisfaction of the Water and Sewer Department for a period of 12 months.
   (C)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water or
sanitary main without approval of Council.
(Prior Code, § 401.04)
§ 50.05 ACCOUNTING, BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Accounts in name of owner. All accounts shall be carried in the name
of the owner. The owner shall be liable for water supplied to his or her
property, whether he is occupying the property or not, and any charges unpaid
shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Bills of service. Water and sewer service charges shall be billed
together. Bills shall be mailed to the customers monthly and shall specify the
water consumed and the sewer and water charges in accordance with the rates set
out in this chapter.
   (C)   Delinquent accounts. All charges for water and sewer service shall be
due on the monthly due date specified by the city for the respective account
and shall be delinquent if payment in full is not received by said due date.
The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts promptly. In any case,
where satisfactory arrangements for payment have not been made, the Water
Department may, after the procedural requirements of division (D) of this
section have been complied with, discontinue service to the delinquent customer
by shutting off the water at the stop box. When water service to any premises
has been discontinued, service shall not be restored except upon the payment of
all delinquent bills and a shut-off fee as set forth in the city fee schedule.
Delinquent accounts shall be certified to the City Clerk or their designee who
shall prepare an assessment roll each year providing for assessment of the
delinquent amounts against the respective properties served. The assessment
roll shall be delivered to the Council for adoption on or before October 25 of
each year for certification to the County Auditor for collection along with
taxes. Such action is optional and may be subsequent to taking legal action to
collect delinquent accounts. In the event the city certifies the delinquent
water account to the County Auditor, the customer shall be charged an
administrative fee as set forth in the city fee schedule as part of the
certified amount.
   (D)   Procedure for shut off of service. Water shall not be shut off under
division (C) of this section or for a violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have
first been given the occupant and owner of the premises involved. The notice
shall be personally served or delivered by certified mail and shall state that
if payment is not made before a day stated in the notice, but not less than 3
days after the date on which the notice is given, the water supply to the
premises will be shut off. The notice shall also state that the occupant may,
before such date, demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the supply will
not be cut off until after the hearing is held. If the customer requests a
hearing before the date specified, a hearing shall be held on the matter by the
Council at least 1 week after the date on which the request is made. If as a
result of the hearing the Council finds that the amount claimed to be owing is
actually due and unpaid, and that there is no legal reason why the water supply
of the delinquent customer may not be shut off in accordance with this title,
the city may shut off the supply.
(Prior Code, § 401.05) (Am. Ord. 2010-4-1, passed 4-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-8-2,
passed 8-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-11-1, passed 11-12-2014; Am. Ord. 2019-5-4,
passed 5-14-2019)
§ 50.06 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC AND CITY.
   (A)   Permit and bond. A permit for conduction and convection of the
extension between a building drain and the sewer main or stub, herein called
the building sewer, or between the building water service pipes and a water
main or stub shall be issued only upon application pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Liability insurance. Before undertaking the construction work
authorized by the permit, the plumber shall secure and maintain a policy of
insurance against damages to property or injury or death to persons. The policy
shall indemnify and save harmless the city and its personnel against any claim,
damages, or cause of action arising out of the work and from any expenses of
defending the same. The property damage insurance coverage shall be in the
amount of at least $25,000 and the public liability damage for injury or death
shall be in the amount of at least $200,000 per claimant and $600,000 for any
number of claims per occurrence. Proof of such insurance shall be filed with
the city prior to construction work and such policy shall provide that the city
shall be notified immediately of any termination or modification of such
insurance. If the insurance coverage is inadequate in amount, the master
plumber shall indemnify and save harmless the city and its personnel in like
manner.
   (C)   Apportionment of costs. The owner shall bear the costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer or extension
of water service to private property. He shall indemnify the city for any loss
or damage directly or indirectly caused by its installation and connection. To
the extent it deems necessary, the Council may establish rules and regulations
for the proper implementation of these requirements which, when approved by the
Council by resolution, shall govern the installation and connection of building
sewers and extension of water service to private property.
(Prior Code, § 401.06)
§ 50.07 SEWER/WATER AVAILABILITY CHARGE.
   (A)   General. In addition to all other charges set forth in this title, all
applications for building permits for new structures shall be accompanied by a
sewer availability charge in an amount as established in this chapter.
   (B)   Sewer availability charge. The sewer/water availability charge shall
be as set forth in the city fee schedule.
   (C)   Computation of units for residential units. The number of units which
are connected, or for which a building permit is issued, shall be computed as
follows:
      (1)   Single family houses, town houses, condominiums, and duplex units,
and most apartments shall each comprise 1 unit.
   (D)   Computation of units for commercial public and other facilities. The
number of units which are connected or for which a building permit is issued
shall be based on multiples of the parameters set forth in Exhibit A.
EXHIBIT A
Type of Facility Parameter* SAC Unit
EXHIBIT A
Type of Facility                                                                  Parameter* SAC
                                                                                             Unit
Arenas/auditoriums                                                                110 seats  1
Automobile service                                                                 
   Fast service less than 4 hours per car                                      2 service  1
   Major service more than 4 hours per car                                     bays       1
                                                                                  14 bays
                                                                                   
Ballroom                                                                          825 square 1
   Facility without liquor service                                             feet       1
   Facility with liquor service                                                590 square
                                                                                  feet
                                                                                  2,400
Bank                                                                              square     1
                                                                                  feet
Banquet hall                                                                       
Includes office, meeting, kitchen, warehouse/storage, lounge, bride/groom suites, 1,650      1
lockers/showers                                                                   square
                                                                                  feet
Barber/Salon Spa
Includes office, retail, meeting, warehouse/storage, hair stations, nail           
stations, lockers/showers, and massage tables if business includes hair and/or    700 square 1
nail stations;                                                                    feet
Whirlpool/tub is charged additional
Boarding house                                                                    5 beds     1
                                                                                  2,550
Vehicle service                                                                   square     1
                                                                                  feet
Bowling alleys (does not include bar or dining area)                              3 alleys   1
                                                                                   
                                                                                  274
Camps                                                                             gallons
   Children's camps (central toilet and bath; overnight, primitive cabins; numb274
of occupants x 50 gallons/occupant)                                               gallons    1
    Day camps (no meals served; number of occupants x 10 gallons/occupant)    274        1
    Labor/construction camps (number of occupants x 50 gallons/occupant)      gallons    1
    Housekeeping cabins with private baths (number of beds x 60 gallons/bed)  274        1
    Travel trailer parks                                                      gallons    1
      With water and sewer hookup (number sites x 100 gallons/site)         274        1
       With central toilet and showers (number of sites x 75 gallons/site) gallons    1
    Sanitary dump (sites without hookup; number of sites x 10 gallons/site)   274
                                                                                  gallons
                                                                                  274
                                                                                  gallons
Car wash (self-service (non-automatic), other car wash bay or hose bib area)      1 bay      3
Car wash (roll-over (automatic) - provide spec sheet stating the number of         
gallons per each wash type divided by number of wash types x 100 cars)            274        1
                                                                                  gallons
Car wash (conveyor/pull-through (automatic) - provide spec sheet stating the       
number of gallons per each wash type divided by number of wash types x 200 cars)  274        1
                                                                                  gallons
                                                                                  Contact
Car wash (reclaim)                                                                City       1
                                                                                  Council/
                                                                                  Engineer
Church/worship                                                                     
Includes worship and congregation space, office, meeting, warehouse/storage,      2,300      1
lockers/showers, classrooms, nursery, stage, banquet, small coffee café.         square
                                                                                  feet
Cocktail lounge (no food service)                                                 23 seats   1
Daycare (Includes office, preschool classrooms, meeting, warehouse/storage,       900 square 1
shower/lockers)                                                                   feet
Fitness (Includes fitness, dance, office, meeting, retail, warehouse/storage,      
daycare, salon, massage, tanning, small café, showers/lockers, pool/whirlpool,   1,600      1
team sport courts/cages)                                                          square
                                                                                  feet
Game room                                                                         590 square 1
                                                                                  feet
                                                                                  2,650
                                                                                  square
General office building                                                           feet net** 1
                                                                                  floor
                                                                                  space
Group home                                                                                  1
Secondary treatment (residents leave during the day)                              5 beds     1
Primary treatment (residents stay all day)                                        3 beds
Handball and racquet courts                                                       1 court    2
                                                                                   
                                                                                  1 bed/crib
                                                                                  5 beds
Hospitals (does not include outpatient clinic)                                    2,400
Licensed beds or baby cribs                                                       square     1
Sleep center                                                                      feet       1
Office (administration)                                                           1,650      1
Meeting (administration)                                                          square     1
Warehouse/storage                                                                 feet       1
Showers (employee use only)                                                       7,000      1
                                                                                  square
                                                                                  feet
                                                                                  17 fixture
                                                                                  units
Laundromats (number of gallons of water per cycle x 8 cycles/day x number of      274        1
washers of each type)                                                             gallons
Motels and hotels (assume 2 persons/room)                                         2 rooms    1
Nursing home/Memory care                                                          2 beds     1
Restaurant (drive-in)                                                             9 parking  1
                                                                                  spaces
                                                                                  3,000
Restaurant (take out - no indoor customer seating)                                square     1
                                                                                  feet
Restaurant (food and drink) - Includes bar, coffee shop, tap room, dance floor,
brewery/distillery with 10% or less production space, bakeries with seating, and   
restaurant with customer seating. The gross square feet includes all areas        300 square 1
associated with the business. This may include seating area, bar area, bathrooms, feet
hallways, storage, prep space, coolers, kitchen, etc.
Retail stores - Includes office that is part of the main function of the business  
(e.g., managers, accounting, etc.), meeting, warehouse/stock, showers/lockers,    3,050      1
and fixture units; Individual tenant spaces will be excluded from the gross       square
square feet calculation and charged based on their individual use                 feet
Retail-mixed - Retail criteria where additional uses exceed the 10% accessory use  
threshold; Individual tenant spaces will be excluded from the gross square feet   1,900      1
calculation and charged based on their individual use                             square
                                                                                  feet
Rooming houses                                                                    7 beds     1
*   Parameter - if a given property exceeds the parameter, round up to the next full sac unit
**   Net - square footage - deduct mechanical rooms, elevator shafts, stairwells, restroom and
storage areas
 
   (E)   Other uses. The number of units to be charged to uses not specifically
covered by this section shall be determined on a case by case basis by the City
Council/Engineer in consultation with the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 404.01) (Am. Ord. 123, passed 1-12-1999; Am. Ord. 2002-6-2,
passed 6-25-2002; Am. Ord. 2003-4-2, passed 4-8-2003; Am. Ord. 2020-11-4,
passed 11-10-2020)
§ 50.08 CARRYING CHARGE.
   All accounts which remain unpaid after they become due shall be subject to a
10% monthly carrying charge, along with a monthly administrative fee in the
amount set forth in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 2014-11-3, passed 11-12-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-11-7, passed 11-9-2016; Am.
Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Discontinuance of service
   
51.02   Supply from one service
   
51.03   Turning on water, tapping mains
   
51.04   Repair of leaks
   
51.05   Use of fire hydrants
   
51.06   Private water supply
   
51.07   Restricted hours
   
51.08   Permitting use by others
   
51.09   Access to premises
   
51.10   [Reserved]
   
51.11   Private well regulation
Meters
   
51.20   Meters required
   
51.21   Deposit
   
51.22   Maintenance
   
51.23   Complaints: meter testing
   
51.24   Meters property of city
   
51.25   Meter reading and inspection
   
51.26   Commercial consumers within mobile home parks
   
51.27   Second water meter
   
51.28   Water connection requirements
Plumbing Regulations
   
51.40   Service pipes
   
51.41   Water meter setting
   
51.42   Location of stop boxes
   
51.43   Curb stop installations
Water Rates
   
51.55   Water rate schedule
   
51.56   Rates for manufactured home parks
   
51.57   Rates for multi-family dwellings
   
51.58   Commercial user
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The city may discontinue service to any water consumer without notice
for necessary repairs or, upon notice as provided in §
50.05, for nonpayment of charges, or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service.
   (B)   The city Maintenance Supervisor, or any authorized city employee, to
protect the public health and safety and in order to protect the public water
supply and/or private property, may order the city water service immediately
disconnected to any property upon determining that any of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The property is vacant;
      (2)   The property is unsecured;
      (3)   The property is determined to be uninhabitable or unsuitable for
occupancy;
      (4)   Other utilities to the property providing heat and/or light have
been shut off;
      (5)   The property has plumbing that is failing or unsafe;
      (6)   That running water to the property creates an unsanitary or unsafe
condition to anyone who may enter the property; and
      (7)   The property owner or occupant has refused access by authorized
officials as authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 51.02 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than 1 house or building shall be supplied from 1 service connection
except by special permission of the Council. Whenever 2 or more parties are
supplied from 1 pipe connecting with a service main, each building or part of
building separately supplied shall have a separate stop box and a separate
meter.
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
§ 51.03 TURNING ON WATER, TAPPING MAINS.
   No person except an authorized city employee shall turn on any water supply
at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply system
or insert a stopcock or other appurtenance therein without a city permit.
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
§ 51.04 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   The consumer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the service pipe
from the curb box into the building served. If he or she fails to repair any
leak in such service pipe within 24 hours after notice by the city, the city
may turn the water off. The water shall not then be turned on again until the
sum set forth in the city fee schedule has been paid to the city. When the
waste of water is great or damage is likely to result from the leak, the city
shall turn the water off immediately upon the giving of notice if repair is not
commenced immediately.
(Prior Code, § 402.01) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 51.05 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than an authorized city employee shall operate a fire
hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system without first
obtaining authority to do so from the Council.
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
§ 51.06 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected with any
pump, well, or tank that is connected with any other source of water supply.
When any such connection is found, the Council shall notify the owner to sever
the connection and if this is not done immediately, the city shall turn off the
water supply forewith. Before any new connection to the city system is
permitted, the Council shall ascertain that no cross connection will exist when
the new connection is made.
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
§ 51.07 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   In order to protect the health, safety, and general welfare of the residents
of Stacy, the following regulations shall apply:
   (A)   Permanent restrictions on sprinkling shall apply to residents on
municipal water utilities:
      (1)   Use of the water supply system for lawn or garden sprinkling or
other irrigation shall be limited to an odd-even schedule. Odd-numbered
addresses shall water only on odd-numbered days. Even-numbered addresses shall
water only on even-numbered days.
      (2)   No lawn or garden sprinkling or other irrigation shall occur
between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. daily from May 1 to September 30.
      (3)   These permanent restrictions on sprinkling shall not apply to the
watering of new seed or sod; new landscaping; or any other plant materials that
require daily watering, including, but not limited to, golf greens and tees,
athletic fields with special soil conditions, plantings in pots and baskets,
and vegetable gardens.
   (B)   Water shortage determination. Whenever the Council determines that a
shortage of water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the
times and hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation,
car washing, or other specified uses. After publication of the resolution or 2
days after the mailing of the resolution to each customer, no person shall use
or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and any customer who
does so shall be charged $25 for each day of violation and the charge shall be
added to his or her next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate
compliance with the terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the
delivery of a copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any
customer who has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to
be used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided
above. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
   (C)   Fees for violating the permanent or temporary water restrictions shall
be added to the water bill of the offending property according to the fee
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 402.01) (Am. Ord. 2023-10-3, passed 10-10-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-9-
1, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 51.08 PERMITTING USE BY OTHERS.
   No person shall permit city water to be used for any purpose except upon his
or her own premises except in an emergency and then only if written permission
is first obtained from the Council. Anyone wishing to obtain water from a
hydrant for construction purposes shall made application to the Clerk for such
services.
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
§ 51.09 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The city Maintenance Supervisor, or any authorized city employee, will have
free access to premises at all reasonable hours to ascertain the location or
condition of all house connections, pipes, and plumbing fixtures.
(Ord. 2009-4-1, passed 4-14-2009)
§ 51.10 [RESERVED.]
§ 51.11 PRIVATE WELL REGULATION.
   (A)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words
and terms shall have the meaning set forth below:
      (1)   PERSON shall mean any natural person, partnership or association,
private or public corporation.
      (2)   PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM shall mean any non-municipal water
system used for human consumption or for non-consumption, including for
irrigation, domestic use, and commercial use, except as provided in division
(C) below.
      (3)   PUBLIC WATER AND SUPPLY SYSTEM shall mean the city water supply
system.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (C) below, no person shall build,
establish, expand or maintain a private water supply system within the city,
unless there shall be no public water supply system within 150 feet from the
boundary line of the property on which the facility using the water or
connection to city wastewater sewer system is located.
   (C)   Properties located in the A-Agricultural District requiring water as
part of the non- residential portion of a farming operation, and properties
lawfully engaged in a business requiring in excess of 100,000 gallons of water
per month in the production process, not discharged into the city sewer system,
may apply for a conditional use permit to install replacement equipment for a
private water supply system or to expand an existing private water system
within the city. For purposes of this provision, expansion shall not include
creation of new wells but only expansion of the use of existing well(s) and
shall only pertain to water used in a production process which is not
discharged into the city water system. No construction of new private water
supply systems shall be allowed under this provision. Conditional use permits
authorized pursuant to this provision shall constitute an exception to the
requirement of mandatory connection to city water pursuant to the city code.
   (D)   This section shall be effective November 21, 2012. Any private water
supply system that is in place and operational as of that date shall not be
subject to this section, except as provided in §
52.56 of the City Code.
   (E)   Any person who shall have applied to the appropriate state agencies
for permits to build and establish a private water supply system by November
21, 2012, shall not be subject to this section for the water system so applied
for provided:
      (1)   Such person diligently pursues such application; and
      (2)   Such person commences construction of such system within 90 days
after obtaining such permits.
   (F)   Each day any person is in violation of this section shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (G)   Any violation of this section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2012-11-2, passed 11-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-8-4, passed 8-27-2013; Am.
Ord. 2015-10-1, passed 10-13-2015)
METERS
§ 51.20 METERS REQUIRED.
   Except for the extinguishment of fires, no person other than an authorized
city employee shall use water from the city water supply system or permit water
to be drawn therefrom unless the water passes through a meter supplied or
approved by the city. No person not authorized by the Council shall connect,
disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change or interfere with any such
meter or its use.
(Prior Code, § 402.02)
§ 51.21 DEPOSIT.
   Meters shall be furnished by the city, but each customer shall pay a non-
refundable deposit on each water meter in an amount set forth in the city fee
schedule.
(Prior Code, § 402.02) (Am. Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003)
§ 51.22 MAINTENANCE.
   The city shall maintain and repair at its expense any meter that has become
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace it if necessary.
Any utility customer refusing repair or replacement of their water meter shall
pay a fine set forth in the city fee schedule. After 3 consecutive billing
cycles from the date of refusal, the account will be subject to utility shut
off procedures. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act or neglect
of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense caused
thereby shall be a charge against and collected from the water consumer, and
water service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected and the amount
charged is paid. The fine for tampering with a meter is set forth in the city
fee schedule.
(Prior Code, § 402.02) (Am. Ord. 2006-01-05, passed 1-10-2006; Am. Ord. 2024-5-
1, passed 5-6-2024)
§ 51.23 COMPLAINTS; METER TESTING.
   When a consumer complains that the bill for any past service period is
excessive, the city shall have the meter reread on request. If the consumer
remains dissatisfied, he or she may, on written request and the deposit as set
forth in the city fee schedule, have the meter tested. If the test shows an
error in the city’s favor exceeding 5% of the water consumed, the deposit shall
be refunded, an accurate meter shall be installed, and the bill shall be
adjusted accordingly. Such adjustment shall not extend back more than 1 service
period from the date of the written request.
(Prior Code, § 402.02)
§ 51.24 METERS PROPERTY OF CITY.
   Water meters shall be the property of the city and may be removed or
replaced as the size and type when deemed necessary and the deposit adjusted
accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 402.02)
§ 51.25 METER READING AND INSPECTION.
   Authorized meter readers shall have free access at reasonable hours of the
day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the city water
supply system in order to read meters and make inspections.
(Prior Code, § 402.02)
§ 51.26 COMMERCIAL CONSUMERS WITHIN MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   Any commercial consumer within a mobile home park shall be separately
metered.
(Prior Code, § 402.02)
§ 51.27 SECOND WATER METER.
   (A)   A second meter may be installed for customers in any zoning district
where no water is discharged into the sanitary sewer, subject to the customer
complying with the following conditions:
      (1)   Execute a written agreement for reimbursement of city costs and pay
a deposit for costs in an amount set forth in the current city fee schedule
prior to such work;
      (2)   Install a separate water meter for water used for irrigation or for
business use where water does not enter the sanitary sewer system;
      (3)   Allow the city to inspect the installation described in either
divisions (A) or (B) of this section during construction and prior to
activation;
      (4)   Allow the city access to the premises for inspection of the water
meters inside the structure to assure that water through the separate line is
not discharged into city sanitary sewer; and
      (5)   If a separate connection is made for water only, the customer shall
pay 1 additional water access charge for each existing water connection as set
forth in the current city fee schedule. No additional city sewer access charge
shall be required. Sewer charges shall be paid only for water entering the city
sewer system. All water usage from a second water meter shall be combined with
the water usage from the first water meter for purposes of calculating the
total water usage for the property served. The combined water usage from the
first and second water meters shall determine the applicable water rate as set
forth in the current city fee schedule. Water from the second meter shall not
be discharged into the wastewater system. No sewer charge shall apply to water
flowing through the second meter.
   (B)   A second meter shall be installed on all new irrigation installations
within the city under the same requirements of division (A) above.
(Ord. 2007-7-2, passed 7-24-2007; Am. Ord. 2014-6-1, passed 6-10-2014; Am. Ord.
2017-12-4, passed 12-12-2017)
§ 51.28 WATER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, any facility using
water or connected to the wastewater sewer system within the corporate limits
of the city shall be required to connect to the city water supply system,
provided the public water is within 150 feet of the property line of the
property on which the facility using the water or connection to city wastewater
sewer system is located. When such city water connection is available, the
owner shall complete the connection at the owner’s expense in conformance with
the provisions of this code within 90 days after the date of mailing or
delivery of official notice to do so. Any house, building or property defined
in this subsection which is served by a private well shall not be required to
connect to city water unless the conditions set forth in §
52.56(F) occur. The owner of any lot or parcel of land 5 acres or larger in
size, which is eligible for subdivision under the regulations in the underlying
zoning district, is not subject to the mandatory connection to the city water
supply as required in this subsection until such time that application for
subdivision is made by the owner.
   (B)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to the city water supply
system in compliance with a notice given under this section, the city must
undertake to have the connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against
the benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at
the rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the County
Auditor and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as
assessments for local improvements.
(Ord. 2010-12-4, passed 12-14-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-9-4, passed 9-13-2011)
PLUMBING REGULATIONS
§ 51.40 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend to allow not less than
1 foot of extra length and in such manner as to prevent rupture by settlement.
The service pipe shall be placed not less than 6 feet below the surface and be
so arranged as to prevent rupture by freezing. A shut-off or other stop cock
with waste valve of the size and strength required shall be placed close to the
inside wall of the building and be well protected from freezing. Copper tubing
and HDPE tubing shall be used for all services of 2 inches or less. Joints on
copper tubing shall be as few as possible, and not more than 1 joint shall be
used for a service up to 70 feet in length. Each joint shall be left uncovered
until inspected by the city. Connections with the mains for domestic supply
shall be at least 1 inch.
(Prior Code, § 402.03)
§ 51.41 WATER METER SETTING.
   Every water meter shall be installed in accordance with all applicable
codes, rules, and regulations, and in accordance with the following provisions.
   (A)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The full flow stop and waste gate valve shall be 12 inches above the floor.
   (B)   The bottom of the meter shall be between 12 and 24 inches above the
finished floor line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches
horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall unless a different
position is approved by the Water Department. A suitable bracket shall be
provided to support the meter in a proper vertical position and prevent noise
from vibration.
   (C)   Each meter installation shall have a full flow stop and waft gate
valve on the street side of the meter. In no case shall more than 15 inches of
pipe be exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and
the full flow stop and waste gate valve. A frill flow stop and waste gate valve
shall also be installed on the house side of the meter.
   (D)   Meter setting devices for 5/8-inch, 3/4-inch, and 1-inch meters shall
be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the service pipe up to and
including the full flow stop and waste gate valve on the building side.
   (E)   The meter shall be furnished by the Water Department and shall remain
the property of the city. The cost of furnishing and use of the meter shall be
established by Council ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 402.03) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 51.42 LOCATION OF STOP BOXES.
   (A)   Prior to submitting building plans and permit applications, the
builder shall review city plans to determine the as-built locations of the
water and sewer main connections in relation to the lot.
   (B)   Curb stop boxes generally shall be installed in a location outside of
bituminous and concrete areas. The curb stop shall be placed at the edge of the
right-of-way. Backfilling shall not be completed until the installation has
been inspected and approved by the city.
   (C)   If the plans indicate the curb stop box will be located in bituminous
or concrete area, and the bituminous and concrete areas can be relocated, then
the builder shall move the location of the bituminous or concrete area to avoid
placement with the curb stop box.
   (D)   If the bituminous and concrete areas cannot be practically relocated,
the builder shall notify the Zoning Administrator and shall request amendment
of the plans to allow construction of the bituminous and concrete areas in the
requested location. If such request is approved by the Zoning Administrator,
then the curb stop box shall require the installation of a Neenah frame and
casting R-1914B, Ford A-l, or locking equal approved by the city, as set forth
in the city's engineering design standards. The builder shall reimburse the
city for all administrative cost incurred in this review process.
   (E)   In the event a water service requires repair and the repair work
requires the removal of bituminous, concrete, private irrigation systems, or
other landscaping features, the property owner shall be responsible for
completion and costs of any restorative work, including replacement of
bituminous, concrete, irrigation system components, or any other landscaping
features removed or damaged by the city in conducting the repair.
(Prior Code, § 402.03) (Am. Ord. 2013-1-4, passed 1-8-2013)
§ 51.43 CURB STOP INSTALLATIONS.
   Stationary rods must be permanently installed at the time of installation of
new curb stops and/or at the time of repair of existing curb stops.
(Prior Code, § 402.03)
WATER RATES
§ 51.55 WATER RATE SCHEDULE.
   Each water user shall pay for water used each month at the rates as set
forth in the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 2010-4-1, passed 4-13-2010)
§ 51.56 RATES FOR MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   Water charges for manufactured home parks shall be computed by dividing the
consumption of water by the number of connections served and applying thereto
the gallonage rates as set forth in the current city fee schedule. One unit
base fee shall be charged for each connection served.
(Ord. 2010-4-1, passed 4-13-2010)
§ 51.57 RATES FOR MULTI-FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Multi-family dwellings use charge shall be derived by dividing the total
consumption of water by the total number of units in the dwelling and applying
the gallonage rates as set forth in the current city fee schedule. One unit
base fee shall be charged for each unit in a multiple-family dwelling.
(Ord. 2010-4-1, passed 4-13-2010)
§ 51.58 COMMERCIAL USER.
   Any new commercial users of city water west of 1-35 shall have a separate
service upstream from present existing meters.
(Prior Code, § 402.04)
CHAPTER 52: SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Powers and authority of Superintendent
   
52.03   Sewer rates
Sewer Rates
   
52.20   Establishment of sewer service charge system
   
52.21   Determination of sewer service charges
Wastewater Discharge Permits
   
52.35   Mandatory permits
   
52.36   Permit application
   
52.37   Conditions
   
52.38   Duration
   
52.39   Modifications
   
52.40   Transfer
Regulations
   
52.55   Waste disposal
   
52.56   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.57   Building sewers and connections
   
52.58   Use of wastewater treatment works
   
52.59   Vandalism
   
52.60   Pretreatment
   
52.61   Odor and corrosion control measures; financial security
Enforcement
   
52.75   Slug or accidental discharges
   
52.76   Revocation of permit
   
52.77   Show cause hearing
   
52.78   Legal action
   
52.79   Annual publication
   
52.80   Appeal to Council
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.
   ADMINISTRATION COSTS. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of
the wastewater treatment works (for example, billing and associated bookkeeping
and accounting costs).
   ASTM. American Society for Testing and Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of Stacy, Minnesota or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20 degrees Centigrade (C), expressed in terms of milligrams per liter
(mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 3
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMMERCIAL USER. Users which are business enterprises discharging normal
domestic strength wastewater.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and/or sampling of wastes.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment
works for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct said facilities.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater having a BOD or TSS, or concentration
greater than normal domestic strength wastewater as defined in this section and
not otherwise classified as an incompatible pollutant.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in water is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies or instrumentalities of
federal, state, or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Waste that either singly or by interaction with
other wastes interferes with the wastewater treatment works, constitutes a
hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard
in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. The gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery, and processing of natural resources, including, but not
limited to, all Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E,
and I manufacturers, as distinct from normal domestic strength wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL USER OR INDUSTRY.
      (1)   Any user that discharges liquid wastes resulting from industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources, into
a public owned wastewater treatment works. These are identified in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and budget, as
amended and supplemented under one of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B. Mining;
         (c)   Division D. Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division B. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Sewers;
         (e)   Division I. Services.
      (2)   Any user of a publicly owned treatment works which discharges
wastewater to the treatment works containing toxic pollutants or poisonous
solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any wastewater treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewer system (including building, drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections, and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (III).  The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial or
residential users discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(for example, non-profit organizations).
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater
treatment works processes or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES and/or SDS
permit. The term includes the inhibition or disruption of sewage sludge use or
disposal by the city in accordance with published regulations providing
guidelines under § 405 of the Act or any regulations developed pursuant to the
Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act,
or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of disposal or use
employed by the city.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment works  which are determined to be not susceptible to
treatment by such facilities or would interfere with the operation of such
facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405 of the
Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or groundwater.
   NITRIFICATION. The biochemical oxidation of unoxidized nitrogen (NH3-N and
organic nitrogen) to oxidized nitrogen (usually nitrate).
   NITROGEN or N. A nutrient that is often present in wastewater as ammonia,
nitrate, nitrite, and organic nitrogen. The concentrations of each form and the
sum, total nitrogen, are expressed as milligrams per liter (mg/l) elemental
nitrogen.
      (1)   AMMONIA-NITROGEN or NH3-N. The quantity of elemental nitrogen
present in the form of ammonia (NH3); inorganic nitrogen.
      (2)   AVAILABLE NITROGEN. The nitrogen that is present in the inorganic
forms (NH3-N; Nitrate) that are available for plant growth.
      (3)   ORGANIC NITROGEN. The nitrogen present in a sample that is combined
in organic matter and is released by decay of the organics.
      (4)   TOTAL KJELDAHL NITROGEN or TKN. A measure of the total nitrogen
present in a sample. Organic nitrogen plus ammonia-nitrogen equals TKN.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER or NDSW. Wastewater that is primarily
introduced by residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 228
mg/l and a suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 204 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life of the treatment works, whichever is longer, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PHOSPHORUS or P. A nutrient that is often present in wastewater as organic
phosphorus compounds, polyphosphates, and orthophosphates. The concentrations
of each form and the sum, total phosphorus, are expressed as milligrams per
liter (mg/l) elemental phosphorus.
      (1)   ORGANIC PHOSPHORUS. The phosphorus present in a sample that is
combined in organic matter and is released by decay of the organics.
      (2)   ORTHOPHOSPHATE. A salt that contains phosphorus as P04. The product
of hydrolysis of polyphosphates. The product of the biochemical oxidation of
organic phosphorus.
   PHOSPHORUS REMOVAL. The precipitation of soluble and insoluble phosphorus by
chemical coagulation and subsequent flocculation and sedimentation.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than ½ inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design or useful life of the
treatment works, whichever is longer, to maintain the capacity and performance
for which such works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the wastewater treatment works whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for 1 or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments, and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a
storm sewer.
      (3)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (4)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (5)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (6)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (7)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      (8)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
stormwaters, surface runoff, groundwater, sub-surface water, street wash water,
drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE. The use of and benefit from the wastewater treatment works.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, administrative costs, and
other sewer related charges that are billed periodically to users of the city's
wastewater treatment works.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income. Expenditures of the Sewer Service Fund will
be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs and to retire debt incurred
through capital expenditure for the wastewater treatment works.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
works which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day; or
      (2)   Has exceeded 5 % of the total flow received at the treatment
facility; or
      (3)   Whose waste contains a pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to § 307
(a) of the Act; or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent quality, or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration, or
quantity of flow, during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the
performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. § 115,
as amended from time to time for the wastewater treatment works.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,"
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects, as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the
Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the wastewater
treatment works. (See NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER).
   USER. Any person who discharges, or causes or permits the discharge of,
wastewater into the city's wastewater treatment works.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of the wastewater treatment works for
the user's proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, sometimes referred to as sewage.
From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with any groundwater, surface water and stormwater that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the  transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water, including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances, extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any
works, including land which is an integral part of the treatment process or is
used for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, aquifers,
irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of
water, surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which
are contained within, flow through or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Prior Code, 403.01)
§ 52.02 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of all
public sewers and service connections in the city and shall be responsible for
administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city's sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with any security guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification,
the city, MPCA and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the
purposes of performing their specific responsibilities.
   (C)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (D)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees and
the city shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by
city employees and against liability, claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
52.58.
   (E)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater treatment
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Prior Code, § 403.02)
§ 52.03 SEWER RATES.
   Each public sewer user shall pay each month the rates set forth in the city
fee schedule.
(Ord. 2010-4-1, passed 4-13-2010)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 52.20 ESTABLISHMENT OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city establishes a Sewer Service Charge System (SSCS) whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance,
administration, and replacement and for debt service on capital expenditures
incurred in constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the user's proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
works shall be determined and fixed in a 'Sewer Service Charge System'
developed according to the provisions of this chapter. The Sewer Service Charge
System shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this chapter, shall be
published in the local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication.
Subsequent changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by
Council resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as "The Sewer Service Fund." Income from revenues collected will be
expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement
for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditures.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administered
in accordance with the provisions of §
52.21.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.21 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified
as belonging to one of the following user classes:
         (a)   Residential:
            1.   Normal residential;
            2.   Mobil home residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Industrial;
         (d)   Institutional;
         (e)   Governmental.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the City Clerk. Allocation of users to user classes shall be based on the
substantive intent of the definitions of these classes contained herein.
   (B)   The user shall pay operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in
proportion to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant, with the minimum rate for loadings of BOD,
TSS, and TKN being the rate established for concentrations of 228 mg/l BOD and
204 mg/l TSS (for example, normal domestic strength wastewater).
   (C)   (1)   Unit costs for fixed service and treatment of flow, BOD, TSS,
and TKN shall be determined and fixed annually in the Sewer Service Charge
System according to the following procedures:
         (a)   Determine the annual OM&R budget;
         (b)   Allocate total annual OM&R costs to fixed service, flow, BOD,
and TSS, proportionately; according to the costs of administration and
collection and of the specific treatment processes required to affect or reduce
flow, BOD, and TSS;
         (c)   Divide the OM&R costs attributable to fixed service, flow, BOD,
and TSS, respectively, by the total annual billable connections, volume and
loadings of flow, BOD, and TSS to arrive at unit costs;
         (d)   Determine the wastewater volume charge in accordance with the
methodology developed in the Sewer Service Charge System report.
      (2)   For purposes of determining user charges, the following definitions
of unit costs shall apply:
         UFS       =   Unit cost for fixed service in $/billing period
         VUC      =   Wastewater volume charge in $/1,000 gals.
         UF      =   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/1,000 gals.
         UBOD    =   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
         UTSS      =   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
      (3)   Estimated unit costs for startup are provided in the Sewer Service
Charge System. Subsequent calculations of unit costs shall be according to the
substantive intent of this SSCS.
   (D)   User charges for users contributing normal domestic strength
wastewater:
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume
of metered water usage. For residential users and non-residential users
discharging NDSW, billable flow shall be equal to monthly water usage measured
throughout the year.
         (b)   For users discharging NDSW but not connected to the city water
system, the billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume of
metered water usage or, at the discretion of the city, from the measurement of
effluent flow at the user's point of discharge. Measurements shall be according
to a regular program prescribed by the city.
         (c)   Determination of loadings from metered water usages: the
billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated from the volume of metered
water usage, as determined above, where the billable quantities will be those
attributable to a wastewater concentration of 228 mg/l BOD and 204 mg/l TSS
(for example, normal domestic strength wastewater).
      (2)   Calculating user charges.
         UC(NDS)   =   UFS + (VUC x F)
   Where:    UC(NDS)   =   User charge for treatment of normal domestic
strength wastewater
         UFS      =   Unit cost for fixed service in $/billing period
         VUC      =   Volume charge for treatment of 1,000 gals. of normal
domestic strength wastewater in $/1,000 gals
         F      =   Billable flow in 1,000 gals.
   (E)   User charges for users contributing wastes greater than normal
domestic strength.
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume
of metered water usage, or at the discretion of the city, from the measurement
of effluent flow at user's point of discharge. Measurements shall be according
to a regular program prescribed by the city.
         (b)   The billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated by the
measurement of these wastes according to a program prescribed by the city in
keeping with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater and in accordance with other provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Calculating user charges.
   UC(GNDS)   =   UFS + (VUC x F) + (UBOD x QBOD) + (UTSS x QTSS)
   Where:    UC(GNDS)   =   User charge for treatment of wastewater that is
greater than normal domestic strength
         UFS      =   Unit cost for fixed service in $/billing period
         VUC      =   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/1,000 gals.
         F      =    Billable flow in 1,000 gals.
         UBOD      =   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
         QBOD      =   Quantity of BOD in excess of 228 mg/l in lbs.
         UTSS      =   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
         QTSS      =   Quantity of TSS in excess of 204 mg/l in lbs.
      QBOD is calculated as follows:
         QBOD      =   F x 0.00834 x (CBOD -228)
   Where:    CBOD      =   Concentration of BOD in mg/l.
      QTSS is calculated as follows:
         QTSS      =    F x 0.00834 x (CTSS - 204)
   Where:    CTSS      =   Concentration of TSS in mg/l.
   (F)   Requirements of city. The city may, at its discretion, require
nonresidential users to install wastewater flow meters or such additional water
meters as may be necessary to determine wastewater volume. The city may require
residential connections to install water meters for the purpose of determining
wastewater volume. When so required, such meters shall be of a type approved by
the city equipped with remote registering recorders and located at an
accessible site on the owner's property.
   (G)   Sewer service charge for recovery of local construction costs. Local
construction costs for the wastewater treatment works will be recovered from
users in proportion to their contributions of wastewater flow and loadings or
the plant capacity allocated to each user, whichever is greater, into the
treatment works as follows. Unit costs for debt service of capital expenditures
attributable to fixed service, flow, BOD, and TSS shall be calculated according
to the Sewer Service Charge System. For purposes of determining debt service
charges, the following definitions shall apply:
   DFS      =   Unit cost for debt service of capital expenditures attributable
to fixed service in $/billing period
   VDC      =   Wastewater volume charge for debt service in $/1,000 gals.
   DF      =   Unit cost for debt service of capital expenditures attributable
to flow in $/1,000 gals.
   DBOD      =   Unit cost for debt service of capital expenditures
attributable to BOD in $/lb.
   DTSS      =   Unit cost for debt service of capital expenditures
attributable to TSS in $/lb.
      (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings. The calculation of flows
and loadings for the debt service charge shall be the same as described in this
chapter.
      (2)   Calculating debt service charges.
         (a)   For normal domestic strength users:
            DC(NDS)   =   DFS + (VDC x F)
         (b)   For users contributing wastes greater than normal domestic
strength:
            DC(GNDS)   =   DFS + (VDC x F) + (DBOD x QBOD) + (DTSS x QTSS)
   Where:     DC(GNDS)   =   Debt service charge to normal domestic strength
users
         DC(GNDS)   =   Debt service charge to users contributing wastewater
that is greater than normal domestic strength
         DFS      =   Unit cost for fixed service in $/billing period
attributable to flow in $1,000 gals.
         VDC      =   Volume charge for treatment of 1,000 gals. of normal
domestic strength wastewater, in $1/1,000 gals.
         F      =   Billable flow in 1,000 gals.
         DBOD      =   Unit cost for debt service of capital expenditures
attributable to BOD in $/lb.
         QBOD    =   Quantity of BOD in excess of 228 mg/l, in lbs.
         DTSS      =   Unit cost for debt service of capital expenditures
attributable to TSS, in $/lb.
         QTSS      =   Quantity of TSS in excess of 204 mg/l, in lbs.
      QBOD is calculated as follows:
         QBOD      =   F x 0.00834 x (CBOD - 228)
   Where:    CBOD      =   Concentration of BOD in mg/l
      QTSS is calculated as follows:
         QTSS      =   F x 0.00834 x (CTSS - 204)
   Where:    QTSS      =   Concentration of TSS in mg/l.
   (H)   Total sewer service chart. The total sewer service charge per billing
period shall be calculated as follows:
         SSC      =   UC + DC
   Where:    SSC      =   Sewer Service Charge
         UC      =   User Charge
         DC      =   Debt Service Charge
   (I)   Charges and fees. The Council shall adopt by resolution charges and
fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for monitoring, inspection, and surveillance procedures;
      (2)   Fees for permit applications;
      (3)   Appeal fees; and
      (4)   Other fees as may be deemed necessary to carry out the requirements
contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 403.03) (Am. Ord. 2010-4-1, passed 4-13-2010)
WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS
§ 52.35 MANDATORY PERMITS.
   All industries proposing to connect or to commence a new discharge to the
wastewater treatment system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit before
connecting to or discharging into the wastewater treatment system if the
discharge would result in the industry being classified as a significant
industrial user. All existing significant industrial users or industrial users
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards under § 307(b) and (c)
of the Act connected to or discharging into the wastewater treatment system
shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the effective
date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.36 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater discharge permit shall complete
and file with the Superintendent an application in the form prescribed by the
city. Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit within 30
days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall
apply at least 90 days prior to connecting or discharging to the wastewater
treatment system. In support of the application, the user shall submit, in
units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including but not
limited to those governed by §§
52.55 through
52.59 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory sampling and analysis
shall be performed in accordance with procedures approved by the
Superintendent;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharge;
      (5)   Average daily and peak hour wastewater flow rates, including daily,
monthly and seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises, including all materials which are or could be discharged, including
sludges, floats, skimmings, and the like;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by any city, state or national categorical
pretreatment standards;
      (9)   Each product by type, amount and rate of production;
      (10)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (11)   Number of full and part-time employees and hours of work; and
      (12)   Any other information as may be deemed by the Superintendent to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   The Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and
may require additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data
furnished, the city may issue a wastewater discharge permit subject to terms
and conditions provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.37 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Wastewater discharge permits shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city.
   (B)   Permits may contain the following:
      (1)   The unit charge or schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the wastewater treatment system;
      (2)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limits on average and maximum flow rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (4)   Requirements for installation and access to inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of
pretreatment facilities;
      (6)   Specifications for monitoring programs which may include sampling
locations, frequency and method of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (7)   Compliance schedules;
      (8)   Requirements for submission of technical reports or discharge
reports;
      (9)   Requirements for maintaining and retaining plant records relating
to wastewater discharge as specified by the city, but in no case less than 3
years, and affording city access thereto;
      (10)   Requirements for notification to and acceptance by the city of any
new introduction of wastewater constituents or of any substantial change in the
volume or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of slug or accidental discharges as
provided in §
52.58 and reporting of permit violations;
      (12)   Requirements for disposal of sludge, floats, skimmings, and the
like; and
      (13)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.38 DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed 5 years.
The user shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of 90 days prior to the
expiration of the user's existing permit. The terms and conditions of the
permit may be subject to modification by the city during the term of the permit
as limitations or requirements as identified in §
52.58 are modified or other just cause exists. The user shall be informed of
any proposed changes in his or her permit at least 30 days prior to the
effective date of change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit shall
include a reasonable time schedule for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.39 MODIFICATIONS.
   Within 9 months of the promulgation of a national categorical pretreatment
standard, the wastewater discharge permit of users subject to such standard
shall be revised to require compliance with such standard within the time frame
prescribed by such standard. Where a user, subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard, has not previously submitted an application for a
wastewater discharge permit, the user shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 180 days after the promulgation of the applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard. In addition, the user with an existing
wastewater discharge permit shall submit to the Superintendent within 180 days
after the promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard the information required by this section. If the information
previously submitted in an application is still current and adequate, only a
letter from the user certifying such is required.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.40 TRANSFER.
   Wastewater discharge permits are issued to a specific user for a specific
operation. A wastewater discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred
or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or changed
operation without the approval of the city. Any succeeding owner or user shall
also comply with the terms and conditions of the existing permit if the city
approves the transfer of the existing permit.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.55 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with provisions of this chapter and the city's NPDES/SDS permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
   (D)   Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the owner of any
house, building, or property used for human occupancy, employment, recreation
or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged and which is situated
within the city and adjacent to any street, alley, or right-of-way in which
there is now located, or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer
of the city, shall be required at the owner’s expense to install a suitable
service connection to the public sewer in accordance with provisions of this
code, within 90 days after the date of mailing or delivery of official notice
to do so, provided the public sewer is within 150 feet of the property line of
the property on which the structure generating the wastewater is located. Any
house, building or property defined in this subsection which is served by a
private septic system shall not be required to connect to public sewer unless
the conditions set forth in §
52.56(F) occur. The owner of any lot or parcel of land 5 acres or larger in
size, which is eligible for subdivision under the regulations in the underlying
zoning district, is not subject to the mandatory connection to the public
sanitary sewer of the city as required in this subdivision until such time that
application for subdivision is made by the owner. All future buildings
constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer pursuant to this section
shall be required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If sewer
connections are not made pursuant to this section, an official 30-day notice
shall be served instructing the affected property owner to make the connection.
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under this section, the city must undertake to
have said connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against the
benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the
rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the County
Auditor and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as
assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition
to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 403.02) (Am. Ord. 2008-2-2, passed 2-26-2008; Am. Ord. 2010-12-
4, passed 12-14-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-9-4, passed 9-13-2011)
§ 52.56 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   State and Chisago County regulations for individual sewage treatment
systems adopted. Except as set forth below in this section, Minn. Rules
Chapters 7080, 7081, 7082 and 7083 (the “State Rules”), and the Chisago County
Subsurface Sewage Treatment System Ordinance, No. 10-1, effective June 10,
2010, as amended, (the “county ordinance”), 1 copy of which is on file in the
office of the City Clerk, are hereby adopted and confirmed as the public and
individual disposal systems regulations of the city and is hereby incorporated
in this chapter as if set out in full.
   (B)   General provision.
      (1)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.55, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Common or shared septic systems are not allowed.
      (3)   Except for the permitting for land application of septage pursuant
to §§ 14.03 and 14.04 of the county ordinance, which shall be administered by
Chisago County, the city hereby undertakes to provide for administration and
enforcement of the standards under this section within the municipal boundaries
of the city.
      (4)   For purposes of administration and enforcement, the terms “Chisago
County”, “County”, and “Department” in the County Ordinance shall mean the
“City” under this section; “Chisago County Board” or “County Board”
   (C)   More restrictive provisions. In the event of a discrepancy between the
provisions of this chapter and the provisions of the state rules or the county
ordinance, the more restrictive provisions shall control.
   (D)   Midsized Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems (MSTS) and any system
requiring an SDS permit from the state, as defined and allowed under the state
rules and the county ordinance, are hereby prohibited in the city.
   (E)   Amendments to county ordinance. The following provisions of the county
ordinance are amended as follows.
      (1)   Section 2, Purpose, is hereby amended to delete reference to
midsize MSTS systems.
      (2)   Section 3, Authority, is hereby amended to delete reference to
Minn. Rules Chapter 7081.
      (3)   Section 4, Definitions and Acronyms, is hereby amended as follows.
         (a)   The definition of “As-Built Drawing” is hereby amended to read
in its entirety as follows:
      AS-BUILT DRAWING. A set of drawings, completed on a form provided by the
County, which documents the final in-place location identified with a minimum
of two (2) measurements from permanent structures, size, and type of all SSTS
components including the type and result of any testing performed during
construction of the system.
         (b)   The definition of MANAGEMENT PLAN is hereby amended to delete
reference to MSTS.
         (c)   The definition of OTHER ESTABLISHMENT is hereby deleted.
         (d)   The definition of (SSTS) SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM is
hereby amended to delete reference to “or a midsized subsurface sewage
treatment system as defined in 7081.0020, subpart 4".
         (e)   The definition of HOLDING TANK is hereby added as defined in
Minn. Rules Chapter 7080.2290;
      (4)   Section 6.06, A, is hereby amended to read as follows: “Property
owners who wish to construct an SSTS to treat wastewater generated by their own
dwelling or seasonal residence are not exempt from the licensing requirement.”
      (5)   Section 6.08 is hereby vacated and amended to read as follows:
         A.   Mandatory maintenance required. The city hereby establishes a
plan for review of each on-site sewage system within the city over a period of
3 years beginning in 2009.
            1.   The Plan. Pursuant to the established plan, the city shall
mail a maintenance report form by April 1 of each year to properties containing
on-site sewage disposal systems due to have maintenance checks. All systems
shall have maintenance checks triennially. Those on-site sewage disposal
systems found to have permitted, through misuse or abuse, sludge and/or scum to
exit past the last septic tanks outlet baffle shall have biennial maintenance
checks until such time that it has been demonstrated that such misuse or abuse
has been abated.
               a.   Each property owner receiving a maintenance report form
shall at his or her sole expense, provide for the pumping and maintenance of
the system. The completed maintenance report form and an administrative fee as
established by ordinance shall be returned to the city by October 1 of the same
year.
               b.   The above-described system maintenance shall include, but
not be limited to, pumping and cleaning of the septic tank, evaluation of the
condition of the tank, baffles, and system, and an examination of the drain
field for evidence of system failure.
               c.   Evaluation of the on-site septic tank and system shall be
made by a registered inspector or pumper. A listing of registered inspectors
and pumpers are available from the MPCA and shall also be available from the
city.
               d.   In the event a property owner fails to complete the
maintenance report form and return, it to the city as required herein, the city
shall contract for the property owner’s septic system to be pumped, cleaned and
evaluated and all costs associated thereto shall be assessed against each
property as outlined in M.S. §§ 429.101 et seq.
               e.   Upon evaluation, if the system is found to be an imminent
threat to public health, the owner of the property shall have the system pumped
and repaired or replaced pursuant to the requirements of this section.
               f.   Any on-site inspection conducted by the city shall be
invoiced to the property owner in an amount established by ordinance.
               g.   Pursuant to M.S. § 429.101, the City Council hereby
authorizes the city staff to certify any unpaid costs or charges imposed
pursuant to this section, to the County Auditor for collection as other taxes.
      (6)   Section 6.09 is hereby added to read as follows:
         6.09 Effluent Treatment Filters
   A commercial effluent filter, such as a Polylox PL-525, or a commercial
effluent filter of similar quality as approved by the city, equipped with an
automatic shut off system and alarm system shall be installed in all newly
constructed SSTS.
      (7)   Section 7.01 is amended to delete reference to Minn. Rules Chapter
7081.
      (8)   Section 7.02, G, is hereby vacated and amended to read as follows:
         G.   Each site evaluation submitted for approval in support of a
permit application shall include 4 soil profile assessments and 2 percolation
test per site. Soil profile assessments conducted in frozen soil conditions
shall not be accepted in support of an SSTS Permit application.
      (9)   Section 8.01, A, is hereby amended to delete reference to Minn.
Rules Chapter 7081.
      (10)   Section 8.04, A, is hereby amended to correct the reference in the
county ordinance to Section 7.02, H, to read “Section 7.02, G”.
      (11)   Section 8.06 is hereby amended to provide that the applicant may
appeal to the city pursuant to the city Zoning Code.
      (12)   Section 8.08 is hereby amended to require a renewal fee pursuant
to the City Fee Schedule.
      (13)   Section 8.10 is hereby amended to require re-inspection fee
pursuant to the City Fee Schedule.
      (14)   Section 10.01 is hereby amended to delete reference to MSTS.
      (15)   Section 12.04, C.2.a., is hereby vacated and amended to read as
follows:
         a.   Systems determined to be an imminent health threat to public
health and safety shall be upgraded, replaced, repaired, or the use
discontinued, within sixty (60) days of Notice of Noncompliance from the
Department. In the event a system is determined to be an imminent health threat
to public health and safety during at a time when seasonal road restrictions
are in effect and prohibit access to a property, and no relief from such road
restrictions is granted by the road authority after application, then the
system shall be upgraded, replaced, repaired or discontinued on or before May
15th. During such period of road restrictions, the non-compliant system shall
be abated through pumping to eliminate the imminent health threat to public
health and safety, or converting the existing tank to a temporary holding tank
until the system can be upgraded, replaced, repaired or use discontinued.
      (16)   [Reserved]
      (17)   Section 12.04, E, is hereby established to read as follows:
         (F)   Mandatory connection to city sewer and city water. In the event
that either an SSTS or a private well fails to pass inspection, and city sewer
and city water are located within 150 feet of the boundary line of the property
on which the facility using the water or connection to city wastewater sewer
system is located, then the property owner shall be required to connect to city
sewer and city water within 90 days of notice of the failure. No permits shall
be issued for construction of a new SSTS, or expansion of existing SSTS, for
use on property if public sewer is available under the provisions of §
52.55.
      (18)   Section 12.05 is vacated and hereby amended to read as follows:
         12.05 Certificate of Compliance
      The Certificate of Compliance must include a certified statement by a
Qualified Employee indicating whether the SSTS is in compliance with the
Ordinance requirements. If the SSTS is determined noncompliant with the
applicable requirements, a Notice of Noncompliance must include a statement
specifying those Ordinance provisions with which the SSTS does not comply. An
SSTS Permit application must be submitted to the City if the required
corrective action is not a minor repair.
      All property owners who are required to provide a Certificate of
Compliance shall also provide to the City the results of a current test of the
property’s well water for fecal coliform and nitrates. The purpose of the water
test is to develop a database of the condition of the City’s well water
resources.
      The City shall deliver the Certificate of Compliance or Notice of
Noncompliance to the owner or the owner’s agent within 15 days of the
determination by the Qualified Employee.
      (19)   Section 13.01 is hereby amended to delete reference to “7081".
      (20)   Section 15.04 is hereby amended to provide that the City Attorney
shall have the authority to commence civil actions.
      (21)   Section 16, Costs and Reimbursements, is hereby vacated and
amended to read as follows:
         (A)   If the City is required to take any action to enforcement the
provisions of this Chapter, the City may recover all costs incurred in such
action, including attorneys fees and court costs, and the same may be assessed
against the property pursuant to Section 95.08 of the City Code.
      (22)   Section 17.03, A & B, are hereby amended to provide that variance
requests and administrative appeals shall be reviewed pursuant to the city
zoning code.
      (23)   Section 17.03, C, is hereby amended to delete reference to Chapter
7081.
(Ord. 2011-7-1, passed 7-12-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020; Am.
Ord. 2022-5-3, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 52.57 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5, and TSS, as determined
by the Superintendent.
   (B)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (C)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
   (D)   (1)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
   (E)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall
indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (F)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such connection aforementioned. The City Council may also waive this
requirement for other cases where it finds that a separate sewer for a building
is impractical.
   (G)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or his or
her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (J)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
   (K)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the QPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight and verified by
proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior
to installation.
   (L)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or authorized representative thereof. No backfill shall be
placed until the work has been inspected and approved.
   (M)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
   (N)   No person shall make a service connection with any public sewer unless
regularly licensed under this chapter to perform such work, and no permit shall
be granted to any person except such regularly licensed person.
   (O)   Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with public
sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the
Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If approved by the Council,
such license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the filing of a bond as
hereinafter provided.
   (P)   No license shall be issued to any person until a policy of insurance
(as described in §
50.06) to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk
conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all suits, accidents, and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley, or public ground, made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee's employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over such opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights and
will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Superintendent and
shall conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council
relative thereto and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
   (Q)   The license fee for making service connection is set forth in the
city’s fee schedule.
   (R)   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
chapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee;
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Prior Code, § 403.02) (Am. Ord. 2015-5-3, passed 5-12-2015)
§ 52.58 USE OF WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any
unpolluted water such as stormwater, groundwater, roof runoff, surface
drainage, or non-contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet on
approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge permit
by the MPCA.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater treatment works or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, fuel oil, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohol, ketones, aldehydes,
peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than ½ inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch
manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers,
ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw,
shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood,
plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 6.0 or greater than 9.0 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment works;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
works. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act;
      (5)   Sludges, floats, or skimmings generated by an industrial or
commercial pretreatment system. Such sludge, floats, or skimmings shall be
contained, transported, and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state,
and local regulations.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and groundwater, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set
limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if, in
his or her opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the
above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Superintendent will give consideration to such factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment
process, the city's NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 degrees
Fahrenheit (65.6 degrees Centigrade), or causing, individually or in
combination with other wastewater, the influent at the wastewater treatment
plant to have a temperature exceeding 104 degrees Fahrenheit (40 degrees
Centigrade), or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity
in the wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 degrees Fahrenheit and
150 degrees Fahrenheit (0 degrees Centigrade and 65.6 degrees Centigrade); and
any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral origin of
greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
slug, as defined in §
52.01;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
52.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar
places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the promises or
when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm water, storm
drainage, or groundwater.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption of the wastewater treatment works.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to such
degree that any such material received in the composite wastewater at the
wastewater treatment works will cause it to be in excess of limitations set by
the Superintendent for such materials:
         (a)   Arsenic;
         (b)   Cadmium;
         (c)   Copper;
         (d)   Cyanide;
         (e)   Lead;
         (f)   Mercury;
         (g)   Nickel;
         (h)   Silver;
         (i)   Total chromium;
         (j)   Zinc;
         (k)   Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by city's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
treatment works which violates any statute, rule, regulation, or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or TSS of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by specific
written agreement subject to the provisions of division (T) of this section.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (D) of this section and/or which in the
judgment of the Superintendent may have a deleterious effect upon the
wastewater treatment works, processes, or equipment; receiving waters and/or
soil vegetation and groundwater; or which otherwise create a hazard to life or
constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act and all addendum thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating,
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation, and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment shall be made at the owners' expense and shall be subject to the
review and approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the NPCA.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in the National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards, or any state requirements.
   (G)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
   (H)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease, in excessive amounts, as specified
in division (D)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in division (C)(1), sand
or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means
and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to
review by the Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected
materials not performed by the owner's personnel must be performed by a
currently licensed waste disposal firm.
   (I)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure or
control manhole with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes.
Such structure shall be accessible and safely located and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests, or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state, and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting
required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (K)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
   (L)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction
of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating procedures
shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user's
facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall
notify the Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Superintendent to minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment works. Such notification will not relieve any user of any
liability for any expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or
treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under any state and federal law. Employers shall ensure that all employees who
may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency
notification procedure.
   (M)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30
days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a
suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists,
shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and perform such other work as the
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 60 days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be
completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
   (N)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Superintendent may direct. Each day after 3 days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and the
Superintendent may then cause the work to be done and recover from such owner
or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
   (O)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition, at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
   (P)   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
   (Q)   National categorical pretreatment standards promulgated by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to the Act shall be met by all
users which are subject to such standards in any instance where they are more
stringent than the limitations in this chapter unless the city has applied for
and obtained from the state approval to modify the specific limits in the
national categorical pretreatment standards. When requested, an application for
modification of the national categorical pretreatment standards will be
considered for submittal by the city when the wastewater treatment system
achieves consistent removal of the pollutants. Consistent removal shall be
defined as in 40 C.F.R. 403 of the "General Pretreatment Regulations for
Existing and New Sources of Pollution." Conditional revisions of national
categorical pretreatment standards may be made by the city in accordance with
40 C.F.R. 403 of the "General Pretreatment Regulations for Existing and New
Sources of Pollution" if requested by an industry in accordance with
requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.
   (R)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall be met by all
users which are subject to such standards in any instance in which they are
more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or those in this
chapter or any other applicable city code provision.
   (S)   The city reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater treatment system if
deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in this chapter.
   (T)   No statement contained in this chapter shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city's NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
(Prior Code, § 403.02)
§ 52.59 VANDALISM.
   No person(s) shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 403.02)
§ 52.60 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations or within time limitations as specified
within the wastewater discharge permit, whichever is sooner.
   (B)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be provided,
operated and maintained at the user's expense. Detailed plans showing the
pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review and shall be acceptable to the Superintendent before
construction of the facility. The review of such plans and operating procedures
will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying the
facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under the
provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
city prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (C)   All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall
be made available by the city to officials of the EPA or MPCA upon request.
   (D)   Any user subject to a national categorical pretreatment standard,
after the compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of the
commencement of a new discharge to the wastewater treatment system, shall
submit to the Superintendent during the months of June and December, unless
required more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the city, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the
average daily flow reported in §
52.23. The Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above
reports are to be submitted.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.61 ODOR AND CORROSION CONTROL MEASURES; FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   (A)   Applications. All applications for wastewater permits shall include an
odor and corrosion control Review Document in accordance with the Odor and
Corrosion Control Policy adopted by the Chisago Lakes Joint Sewage Treatment
Commission (“CLJSTC”) designed to address odor and corrosion control of
wastewater discharged to the city wastewater system. When deemed necessary by
the city, the Review Document shall be supplemented by an odor and corrosion
control plan, along with detailed plans and specifications. The plans and
specifications are subject to the review and approval of the city engineer, and
shall include but not be limited to information on the quality of the
wastewater, including the wastewater’s chemical composition and
characteristics, as well as details on the proposed quantity of the wastewater,
including but not limited to information on the amount of proposed daily flow
of wastewater. In the event that applicant’s proposed wastewater discharge into
the city’s sewer system will likely cause odor and corrosion issues exceeding
the standards in the CLJSTC Odor and Corrosion Control Policy (“CLJSTC
Standards”), which standards are hereby adopted by reference, applicant shall
construct facilities necessary to control odor and corrosion at or below levels
adopted in the CLJSTC Standards. All applicants shall provide design plans
approved by the City Engineer for construction of a manhole at the service line
connection to the sewer main for purposes of monitoring the wastewater from
applicant’s property. Manholes shall be placed in public right-of-way or a
permanent easement and be accessible to the city and CLJSTC staff at all times.
   (B)   Financial Security. All applicants shall further include financial
security to the city in the form of a cash deposit or an irrevocable letter of
credit in an amount sufficient to assure compliance with construction of
required odor and corrosion control facilities.
   (C)   Exemptions. All applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
by the City Engineer based upon CLJSTC Standards to determine whether an
individual single family residence, multi-family residence, or small business
that only generates normal domestic strength wastewater may be exempt from the
provisions of this subdivision.
(Ord. 2012-6-1, passed 6-12-2012)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.75 SLUG OR ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service of a user and/or
a wastewater discharge permit (after informal notice to the discharger) when
such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the Superintendent, in order to
stop an actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to
the environment or to the wastewater treatment system, or would cause the city
to violate any condition of its NPDES or state disposal system permit.
   (B)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment service
and/or the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the discharge. In
the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the suspension
order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the
wastewater treatment system or endangerment to any individuals. The city shall
reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the slug or
accidental discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the Superintendent within 15 days of the date of
occurrence.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.76 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In accordance with the procedures of this chapter, the city may revoke the
permit of any user which fails to factually report the wastewater constituents
and characteristics of its discharge; which fails to report significant changes
in wastewater constituents or characteristics; which refuses reasonable access
to the user's premises for the purpose of inspection or monitoring or for
violation of conditions of its permit, this chapter, or applicable state and
federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.77 SHOW CAUSE HEARING.
   (A)   Notice of hearing. If the violation is not corrected by timely
compliance, the Superintendent may order any user which causes or allows an
unauthorized discharge to show cause before the Council why the proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. Notice shall be served on the user
specifying the time and place of a hearing to be held by the Council regarding
the violation, the reason why the action is to be taken, the proposed
enforcement action and directing the user to show cause before the Council why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served personally or by registered or certified mail (return receipt
requested) at least 10 days before the hearing. Service may be made on any
agent or officer of a corporation.
   (B)   Hearing officials. The Council may itself conduct the hearing and take
evidence, or may designate any of its members or any officer or employee to:
      (1)   Issue in the name of the Council notices of hearings requesting the
attendance and testimony of witnesses and the protection of evidence relevant
to any matter involved in such hearings;
      (2)   Take the evidence; and
      (3)   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Council
for action thereon.
   (C)   Transcripts. At any hearing held pursuant to this chapter, testimony
taken must be under oath and recorded stenographically. The transcript, so
recorded, will be made available to any member of the public or any party to
the hearing upon payment of the usual charges therefor.
   (D)   Issuance of orders. After the Council has reviewed the evidence, it
may issue an order to the user responsible for the discharge directing that,
following a specified time period, the sewer service be discontinued unless
adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related appurtenances shall
have been installed or existing treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances are properly operated. Further orders and directives as are
necessary and appropriate may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.78 LEGAL ACTION.
   If any person discharges wastewater, industrial wastes or other wastes into
the wastewater treatment system contrary to the provisions of this chapter,
federal or state pretreatment requirements or any order of the city, the City
Attorney may, following the authorization of such action by the Council,
commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.79 ANNUAL PUBLICATION.
   A list of the users which were significantly violating applicable
pretreatment requirements or national categorical pretreatment standards during
the 12 previous months may be annually published by the city in the official
newspaper of the city. The notification shall also summarize any enforcement
actions taken against the user(s) during the same 12 months. For the purpose of
this provision, significant violations would be those violations which remain
uncorrected 45 days after notification of noncompliance, which are part of a
pattern of noncompliance over a 12 month period or which involve a failure to
accurately report noncompliance.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.80 APPEAL TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   Any interested party shall have the right to request in writing an
interpretation or ruling on any matter covered by this chapter and shall be
entitled to a written reply from the city.
   (B)   Any decision of the city in the enforcement of this chapter may be
appealed to the Council by filing a written petition with the City Clerk within
30 days of the city's ruling. The petition shall specify in detail the matter
or matters involved and every ground or basis on which objections are made. The
petition shall show the names, addresses and telephone numbers of all objectors
and their attorney at law or spokesman. The filing of a petition in accordance
with the requirements herein shall stay all proceedings unless the city shall
file within 72 hours after the filing of a petition a certificate stating that
a stay would cause peril to life or property or specifying other good reason.
The Council shall fix a reasonable time for hearing of the petition or appeal
and give due notice of the time and place of said hearing to parties named in
the petition as attorney or spokesman. The hearing shall be open to the public.
Petitioners shall be given full opportunity to present evidence in support of
their petition after which the city may present evidence in support of its
decision.
   (C)   The Council shall decide the appeal within a reasonable time and
notify the attorney or spokesman. The minutes of the Council shall constitute
the official record of the petition, hearing and decision. Any party desiring a
transcript of the proceedings shall furnish a qualified court reporter at their
own expense.
(Prior Code, § 403.03)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation
and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof.
The offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount set forth in §
10.99. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed as a
separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
city by reason of such violation.
   (D)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
chapter is made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all such charges
which are on September 30 of each year past due and delinquent shall be
certified to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate.
Nothing in this chapter shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or
interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against
any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
   (E)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its discretion,
file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are delinquent and due
against the occupant, owner, or user of the real estate and shall collect as
well all attorney's fees incurred by the city in filing the civil action. Such
attorney's fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
   (F)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable to
recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 22% per annum.
   (G)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statements, representations
or certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater
discharge permit, or who falsifies, tampers with or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 403.04)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Purpose and construction
   
70.03   Traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.04   Establishment of safety zones, lanes of traffic and the like
   
70.05   Police duties
   
70.98   Violations
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this title and defined in M.S. § 169.01, as amended from
time to time, has the meaning given it by that section.
(Prior Code, § 701.01)
§ 70.02 PURPOSE AND CONSTRUCTION.
   This title is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 471.62 and other applicable laws of
the state. The purpose of this title is to provide uniform rules for the
regulation of traffic and the operation of vehicles upon the streets, highways
and private roads in the city in conformity with those rules applicable to the
streets and highways of the entire state.
(Prior Code, § 702.01)
§ 70.03 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. Chapters 168, 169, and 171 regulating the operation of motor vehicles,
highway traffic regulations and driver's licenses, together with all amendments
thereto, are incorporated by reference and made a part of the ordinances of the
city to the same extent as if said sections were set forth in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 702.02)
§ 70.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF SAFETY ZONES, LANES OF TRAFFIC AND THE LIKE.
   To assist in the direction and control of traffic, to improve safe driving
conditions at any intersection or dangerous location, and to warn pedestrians
or drivers of motor vehicles of dangerous conditions or hazards, the City
Council may establish safety zones, lanes of traffic, and stop intersections,
and may order installation by the City Maintenance Department of stop signs,
yield signs, warning signs, signals, pavement markings, or other devices. No
regulation may be established on a truck highway unless the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation is first secured.
(Prior Code, § 701.06) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 70.05 POLICE DUTIES.
   Police officers contracted for by the city shall enforce the provisions of
this title and the state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct
all traffic within the city, either in person or by means of visible or audible
signal, in conformity with this title and the state traffic laws. During a fire
or other emergency, or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police
officers may direct traffic as conditions require notwithstanding the
provisions of this title and the state traffic laws. Officers of the Fire
Department may direct or assist the police in directing traffic.
(Prior Code, § 701.06) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 70.98 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this title is guilty of a
petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 701.10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
71.01   Truck restrictions
   
71.02   Seasonal weight restrictions
   
71.03   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
71.04   Excessive vehicle noise
Truck Zones, Loading Zones and the Like
   
71.20   Establishment
   
71.21   Truck zone prohibitions
   
71.22   Loading zone prohibitions
   
71.23   Property owner initiative
   
71.24   Semi-trailer parking
   
71.25   No truck parking zones
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel by
vehicles in excess of 5 tons per axle is prohibited. The City Maintenance
Department shall erect appropriate signs on such streets. No person shall
operate a vehicle on such posted streets in violation of the restrictions
stated.
(Prior Code, § 701.02) (Am. Ord. 2016-2-2, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2019-5-4,
passed 5-14-2019)
§ 71.02 SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street
under its jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated
on such street whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or
other climatic conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the
use of the vehicles on the street is prohibited, or the permissible weights
thereof reduced. The City Maintenance Department shall erect and maintain signs
plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end of that portion
of the street affected. No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted street in
violation of the prohibition or restriction.
(Prior Code, § 701.03) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 71.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 701.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
         (a)   A distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and
Minnesota Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these
rules may be amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise
standards.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, jake brake, jacobs brake,
Cbrake, paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding
brake system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minnesota
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating "VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED" may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating "VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED" shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
   (F)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference in this section are
also referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the
time this section was adopted.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and punished
by a fine of not more than $300.
(Ord. 2023-4-2, passed 5-9-2023)
TRUCK ZONES, LOADING ZONES, AND THE LIKE
§ 71.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The City Council may by resolution establish spaces in streets as loading
zones or truck zones. The hours of 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. of any day except
Sundays, New Years Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day, Thanksgiving Day, and
Christmas Day, or such other time as the City Council may specify in the
resolution establishing the zone, shall be the loading zone or truck zone
hours. The City Maintenance Department shall mark each zone by appropriate
signs.
(Prior Code, § 701.05) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 71.21 TRUCK ZONE PROHIBITIONS.
   During truck zone hours, no person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle
except a truck in a truck zone. No person shall stop, stand or park a truck in
a truck zone during truck zone hours except to receive or discharge passengers
or freight and then only for a period no longer than is necessary for the
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 701.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.22 LOADING ZONE PROHIBITIONS.
   During loading zone hours, no person shall stop, stand, or park any vehicle
in a loading zone except to receive or discharge passengers or freight and then
only for a period no longer than is necessary for the purpose. No person shall
occupy a loading zone with a vehicle other than a truck for more than 5 minutes
during such hours.
(Prior Code, § 701.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.23 PROPERTY OWNER INITIATIVE.
   Any person desiring the establishment of a loading zone or truck zone
abutting premises occupied by him shall make written application therefor to
the City Council. If the Council grants the request, the proper city office
shall bill the applicant for the estimated cost of placing signs. When the
amount is paid to the City Treasurer, the City Maintenance Department shall
install the necessary signs.
(Prior Code, § 701.05) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 71.24 SEMI-TRAILER PARKING.
   No person shall allow a semi-trailer to stand or be parked unattached from a
tractor unit for any length of time on any street in the city except in an
emergency in order to change tractors.
(Prior Code, § 701.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.25 NO TRUCK PARKING ZONES.
   The Council may by resolution establish "No Truck Parking" zones in the
Business District, and the City Maintenance Department shall mark by
appropriate signs any zones so established. Such zones shall be established in
the Business District where heavy traffic by trucks or other traffic congestion
makes parking by trucks than 1 ton capacity between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on
any week day upon any street in any such zone, but parking of such vehicle for
a period of not more than 30 minutes shall be permitted in such zone for the
purpose of having access to abutting property when such access cannot
conveniently be secured otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 701.05) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
72.01   No parking, stopping or standing zones
   
72.02   Time limit for parking zones
   
72.03   General time limit
   
72.04   Seasonal parking restrictions
   
72.05   Impoundment
   
72.06   Prima facie violation
§ 72.01 NO PARKING, STOPPING OR STANDING ZONES.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 459.14, Subd. 6, the city hereby makes the presence
of any motor vehicle on any street or public area regulated by city ordinance,
when stopped, standing, or parked in violation of any such ordinance, prima
facie evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized
the commission of the violation.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets
or portions of streets as no parking or no stopping or standing zones, and may
limit the hours in which the restrictions apply.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall maintain a register describing the areas
designated as no parking zones on file in the city records for inspection by
the public during regular City Hall business hours.
      (3)   The City Maintenance Department may mark by appropriate signs each
zone so designated.
   (C)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or traffic control device,
no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an established no stopping or
standing zone when stopping or standing is prohibited.
   (D)   No vehicle shall be parked in a no parking zone during hours when
parking is prohibited except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in such
zone for the purpose of forming funeral processions and a truck may be parked
temporarily between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. of any business day
for the purpose of loading or unloading where access to the premises is not
otherwise available.
(Prior Code, § 701.04) (Am. Ord. 2006-12-2, passed 12-12-2006; Am. Ord. 2019-5-
4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 72.02 TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONES.
   The City Council may, by resolution, designate certain areas where the right
to park is limited during hours specified. The City Maintenance Department
shall mark by appropriate signs each zone so designated. During the hours
specified on the sign, no person shall park a vehicle in any limited parking
zone for a longer period than is so specified.
(Prior Code, § 701.04) (Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
§ 72.03 GENERAL TIME LIMIT.
   No vehicle shall in any case be parked upon any street in any 1 place for a
longer continuous period than 72 hours.
(Prior Code, § 701.04)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 72.04 SEASONAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit a vehicle to stand upon any public
street, highway, or alley during the following times:
   (A)   At any time after a snowfall, wind, or other weather condition has
resulted in the accumulation of snow of 3 inches more in depth on the public
street, highway, or alley until the street, highway, or alley is completely
plowed; or
   (B)   Between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. from October 1 through
May 15 of each calendar year.
(Am. Ord. 2001-12-2, passed 12-18-2002; Am. Ord. 2002-12-01, passed 12-10-2002;
Am. Ord. 2018-1-4, passed 1-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.05 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage or other
place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street improvement or
maintenance operations. Such vehicle shall not be released until the fees for
towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 701.04)
§ 72.06 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATION.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parking in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 701.04)
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILE REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Permitted uses of snowmobiles and ATVs
   
73.03   Crossing of streets or highways
   
73.04   Traffic ordinances applicable
   
73.05   Yielding right-of-way
   
73.06   Age limits for operation
   
73.07   Uses specifically prohibited
   
73.08   Equipment required
   
73.09   Ignition lock
   
73.10   Emergencies, operation permitted
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a separate meaning.
   ALL TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Refers to trail bikes, mini bikes and amphibious
vehicles and similar devices other than snowmobiles used at least partially for
travel on natural terrain but not "special mobile equipment" defined in M.S. §
168.011, subd. 22.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is removed
from the engine accelerator or throttle causes the motor to be disengaged from
the driving mechanism.
   NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than roadways, driveways (private or public),
parking lots and other areas the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicles operation thereon.
   OPERATE. To ride or have control of the operation of a snowmobile or ATV.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or ATV.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having title to a snowmobile or
an ATV, or a person entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and
steered by skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 703.01)
§ 73.02 PERMITTED USES OF SNOWMOBILES AND ATVS.
   The operation of any snowmobile or ATV not licensed as a motor vehicle is
prohibited within the area east of Interstate Highway I-35, west of the west
boundary of Carlos Avery, south of 315th Street, north of the southern border
of the Fox Tail Development except as specifically authorized as follows:
   (A)   Snowmobiles may be operated on any city street with the flow of
traffic no further than 5 feet from the edge of the paved or improved portion
of the street, by the most direct route between the operator's residence and a
state, county, or city-designated trail. Operation within other portions of the
paved or improved city street for the purposes set forth in this division is
permitted with the flow of traffic only to pass parked motor vehicles or
stationary non-motor vehicle obstructions within the city street, or to make a
left turn at a 90-degree angle to another city street;
   (B)   Snowmobiles may be operated across the public right-of-way of any
county state aid highway, trunk highway, county highway, or county road within
the city, at a 90-degree angle only at the intersection with a city street or
other county state aid highway, trunk highway, county highway, or county road,
for the purpose of travel by the most direct route between the operator's
residence and a state, county, or city-designated trail;
   (C)   On private property of another with specific permission of the owner
or legal occupant of the property;
   (D)   On any other public place as may be specifically permitted by other
provisions of the city code;
   (E)   At a speed not in excess of 15 miles per hour in areas where operation
is permitted in this section;
   (F)   Snowmobiles may be operated on the following city streets in the
manner described in division (A) for the limited purpose of entering or leaving
the city, or traveling to or from areas in which operation of snowmobiles is
lawful, or to and from gas stations and restaurants by the most direct route:
      (1)   311th Street, from the Sunrise Bike Trail to the eastern edge of
the County State Aid Highway 30 (Forest Boulevard) right-of-way;
      (2)   307th Street, from the Sunrise Bike Trail to the western edge of
the County State Aid Highway 30 (Forest Boulevard) right-of-way, and north
along County State Aid Highway 30 (Forest Boulevard) within the right-of-way
off the pavement, and along Frontage Avenue to the northern edge of County
State Aid Highway 19 right-of-way and crossing County State Aid Highway 30
(Forest Boulevard) right-of-way to the eastern edge of County State Aid Highway
30 (Forest Boulevard) right-of-way; and
      (3)   From the Sunrise Bike Trail along County State Aid Highway 19
(Stacy Trail) to the western boundary of the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 703.02) (Am. Ord. 2013-9-3, passed 9-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-5-4,
passed 5-14-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-12-5, passed 1-9-2024)
§ 73.03 CROSSING OF STREETS OR HIGHWAYS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, other than
an interstate highway or freeway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile first comes to a complete stop at the edge of the
shoulder of the main traveled way;
   (C)   The snowmobile operator yields the right-of-way to all on-coming
traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
the intersection of such street or highway with another public street or
highway;
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or, in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 703.03)
§ 73.04 TRAFFIC ORDINANCES APPLICABLE.
   City and state traffic regulations shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles upon streets and highways, except for those relating to required
equipment, those which by their nature have no application and those
inconsistent with the provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 703.04)
§ 73.05 YIELDING RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way
to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection or so cross the intersection
as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 703.05)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.06 AGE LIMITS FOR OPERATION.
   No person under 14 years of age shall operate a snowmobile on streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state
aid, county highway, or city streets. A person 14 years of age or older, but
less than 18 years of age, may operate a snowmobile on streets and highways as
permitted under this section and make a direct crossing of the streets and
highways only if he or she has in his or her immediate possession a valid
snowmobile safety certificate issued by the Commissioner, as provided by M.S. §
84.872, as amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 703.06)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.07 USES SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or ATV under the
following conditions:
      (1)   At any place while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as
defined in M.S. § 169A.03, as amended from time to time, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference;
      (2)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all
surrounding circumstances;
      (3)   At any place in a careless, reckless, or negligent manner
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger, or be likely to endanger, or cause injury or damage to any person
or property;
      (4)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in any city park except within
designated areas;
      (5)   During the following hours within the area of east of Interstate
Highway I-35, west of the west boundary of Carlos Avery, south of 315th Street,
and north of the southern border of the Fox Tail Development:
         Sunday through Thursday, 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.;
         Friday through Saturday, 11:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m.;
      (6)   So as to tow any person or thing except through use of a rigid tow
bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile or ATV; and
      (7)   On all sidewalks within the city, whether or not the sidewalk is
cleared of snow.
(Prior Code, § 703.07)
   (B)   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over, or kill any
animal with a snowmobile or ATV.
(Prior Code, § 703.11) (Am. Ord. 2013-9-3, passed 9-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-11-
2, passed 11-12-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-5-4, passed 5-14-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-12-5,
passed 1-9-2024)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or ATV any place
within the limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile or ATV under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called "deadman" throttle in operating condition;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise or at a time of reduced visibility, at least 1 clear
lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness
and under normal atmospheric conditions. The headlamp shall be so aimed that
glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile or ATV
operator. It shall also be equipped with at least 1 red tail lamp having a
minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under
normal atmospheric conditions;
   (E)   Reflective material at least 16 inches square on each side forward of
the handlebars or steering device of a snowmobile or ATV and at the highest
practical point on any towed object as to reflect light at a 90 degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 703.08)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.09 IGNITION LOCK.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile or ATV on a public place or way shall lock
the ignition and remove and take the keys with him.
(Prior Code, § 703.09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 73.10 EMERGENCIES, OPERATION PERMITTED.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions in this section, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time and
at locations where snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobile
impractical.
(Prior Code, § 703.10)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
91    OPEN BURNING
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   STREET AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   JUNKED PROPERTY
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 90: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
90.01   Prohibited acts
   90.02   Prohibited acts, exception
§ 90.01 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   In any city park or recreation area, it shall be unlawful for any person:
   (A)   To exceed posted speed limits or to park in an area other than those
designated for parking;
   (B)   To picnic or to light and/or maintain a fire outside area designated
for such use;
   (C)   To leave a fire unattended;
   (D)   To dump or deposit bottles, broken glass, ashes, paper boxes, cans or
refuse of any kind except in containers provided therefor;
   (E)   To discharge in any lake, stream or other body of water any substance,
liquid or solid or any other matter or thing which may result in the pollution
of said waters;
   (F)   To remove, break, destroy, injure, mutilate, deface or in any way
damage any structure, monument, fence, flagpole, vehicle, bench, natural
growth, fireplace or any other property located therein;
   (G)   To solicit prostitution;
   (H)   To climb trees, other natural growths, flagpoles, buildings, or
structures, unless specifically designated for that purpose;
   (I)   To place advertising, decorations or any other device or thing on park
property, except as authorized by the city;
   (J)   To operate a motor vehicle or any device propelled by human power
except on roads, paths or areas designated for such use;
   (K)   To permit any pet or other animal over which the person has control to
be therein while not on a leash or to harass or interfere with users of the
park or recreation area;
   (L)   To fail to obey the directions or orders of an official of the city or
a law enforcement office relating to the safe use of said parks and recreation
areas by or for the public.
(Prior Code, § 802.01) (Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 90.02 PROHIBITED ACTS, EXCEPTION.
   In any city park or recreation area, it shall be unlawful for any person,
unless approved by the City Council:
   (A)   To possess or discharge firearms, air rifles, BB guns, sling shots,
bows and arrows, explosives or fireworks;
   (B)   To gamble, be boisterous, be abusive to other persons, use profane or
indecent language, indulge in excessive use of alcoholic beverages, or engage
in conduct constituting a nuisance;
   (C)   To advertise, sell or attempt to sell, or solicit for a private gain
or cause;
   (D)   To participate in active games or sports outside designated play
areas;
   (E)   To be present in a park or recreation area after the hour of 10:00
p.m. or before the hour of 5:00 a.m. on any day unless involved in organized
activities authorized by the city;
   (F)   To use a park or recreation area, or any portion thereof, for group
celebrations, meetings, or entertainment which are not open to the public
except upon obtaining prior thereto a permit from the city or its designated
official;
   (G)   To operate or play any musical instrument, radio, television, record
or tape player, loudspeaker or other sound amplifying equipment in such a
manner that the sound emanating therefrom is audible beyond the immediate
vicinity of the device and interferes with the use of the park or recreation
area by others, or disturbs the residents of adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
CHAPTER 91: OPEN BURNING
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited materials
   
91.03   Permit required for open burning
   
91.04   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
91.05   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
91.06   Permit process for open burning
   
91.07   Permit holder responsibility
   
91.08   Revocation of open burning permit
   
91.09   Denial of open burning permit
   
91.10   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
91.11   Rules and laws adopted by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a "recreational fire" as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as "open burning."
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than 3 feet
in height, contained within the border of a "recreational fire site" using dry,
clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the property
line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for recreational,
ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished completely
before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors,
burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety hazards will
not be created. No more than 1 recreational fire is allowed on any property at
1 time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a 3-foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
"recreation fire site" as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, "presto logs,"
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into 3-foot lengths.
§ 91.02 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.03 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
91.01.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.04 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means.
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives.
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.05 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established by ordinance.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.06 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions, and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 91.07 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.08 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.09 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 91.10 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.11 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as these statutes may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Dogs and cats
   
92.03   Non-domestic animals
   
92.04   Farm animals
   
92.05   Impounding
   
92.06   Kennels
   
92.07   Nuisances
   
92.08   Seizure of animals
   
92.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
92.10   Diseased animals
   
92.11   Dangerous animals
   
92.12   Dangerous animal requirements
   
92.13   Basic care
   
92.14   Breeding moratorium
   
92.15   Enforcing officer
   
92.16   [Reserved]
   
92.17   Interference with officers
   
92.18   [Reserved]
   
92.19   Domesticated chickens
 
   
92.99    Penalty
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry), or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include but not be
limited to:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards, and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles, and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including, but not
limited to, bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
   BASIC CARE. All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind
treatment, housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their
comfort.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   EMOTIONAL SUPPORT ANIMAL. Companion animals who help their owners cope with
the challenges associated with emotional and mental health conditions (such as
depression and anxiety) by providing comfort with their presence. Unlike
service and therapy dogs, emotional support animals are not expected to perform
specific tasks related to their owner's condition, nor must they adhere to any
behavior standards or training. Their presence alone is what is thought to
provide their owner with solace and therapeutic benefit. Emotional support
animals are not allowed in public places, with the exception of air travel,
which requires special documentation. The Fair Housing Act requires that most
housing units accommodate emotional support animals with appropriate
documentation.
   ENFORCING OFFICER. The Council appointed Enforcement Officer(s), police
department to enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer’s duty of
enforcing the provisions of this section he or she may from time to time, with
the consent of the City Council, designate assistants.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association, or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   POUND. The Council designated official pounds to which animals found in
violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if necessary,
for destruction.
   SERVICE DOGS. Service dogs (also known as "assistance dogs") are trained to
perform quantifiable tasks that directly ease the challenges associated with
their owner's physical, psychiatric, sensory, and/or developmental disability.
The most common types of SERVICE DOGS include guide, hearing, medical alert,
mobility, autism service, and psychiatric service dogs (such as those who
assist veterans with post-traumatic stress). Having a service dog provides
handlers with greater independence, as well as enriched confidence to leave
their home, foster social relationships, and enter or re-enter the workforce.
   TEMPORARY. 30 days.
   THERAPY DOG. Together with their owners, THERAPY DOGS are certified or
registered to visit hospitals, long-term care facilities, treatment centers,
schools, and other settings to benefit people in need. While typically trained
in basic obedience skills, THERAPY DOGS (or "comfort dogs") are not required to
perform essential tasks for those they serve or specialize in any particular
area of service. THERAPY DOGS do not have public access rights under the ADA
and are only allowed in facilities by invitation/agreement.
(Am. Ord. 2016-4-2, passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 92.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading "Dogs or Cats Prohibited."
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs/cats over the age of 6 months kept, harbored, or
maintained by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with
the city. Dog/cats shall be licensed within 30 days of acquiring possession.
Dog/cat licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the license
fee as established by ordinance. The owner shall state, at the time application
is made for the license and upon forms provided, his or her name and address
and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog/cat owned or kept by him or
her. No license shall be granted for a dog/cat that has not been vaccinated
against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by a veterinarian
qualified to practice in the state in which the dog/cat is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog/cat subject to this
section to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established by ordinance.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by ordinance, the
Clerk shall issue to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag for each
dog/cat licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the number corresponding
with the number on the certificate. The license shall be valid for the same
period as that of the vaccination; (however, in case of a dog one year or
younger the vaccine administered is for a one-year period and then moved to 3
years the next vaccination period). Every owner shall be required to provide
each dog/cat with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and shall
see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog/cat tag is lost
or destroyed, a duplicate shall be issued by the City Clerk. A charge shall be
made for each duplicate tag shall be an amount set forth in the current city
fee schedule. Dog/cat tags shall not be transferable from one dog/cat to
another and no refunds shall be made on any dog/cat license fee or tag because
of death of a dog/cat or the owner’s leaving the city before the expiration of
the license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs/cats whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to
dogs/cats brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog/cat
show.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog/cat licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by ordinance, shall first be used to defray
any costs incidental to the enforcement of this chapter; including, but not
restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs/cats.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing, and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every 3 years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description, and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Enforcement
Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination the
required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
7 days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Am. Ord. 2016-4-2, passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-3-1, passed 3-10-2020; Am.
Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for
sale, any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic
animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to
remove the animal from the city after which time the city may impound the
animal as provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this
prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals, except chickens and ducks as regulated in §
92.19 of this chapter, shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the
city. An exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a permitted show or exhibition.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-11-1, passed 11-9-2011; Am.
Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 2023-12-2, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 92.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Enforcement Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. The Enforcement Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of an
unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the
owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown,
the officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other
animal is not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this
section, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided
in this section, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause
injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than 10 days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with
humane treatment and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least 5
regular business days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under
§
92.11 in which case it shall be kept for 7 regular business days or the times
specified in §
92.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for 10 regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by ordinance.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by ordinance, and valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and
distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions in this section, or the officer may cause the animal to be destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and shall properly dispose of the remains
thereof. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   No person or persons shall keep more than a combination of 3 adult
dogs or 3 adult cats at a premises.
   (B)   Kennels are not allowed in zoning districts R-1 Single Family
Residential District, R-2 One and Two-Family Residential District, R-3A
Multiple-Family Residential District-Townhomes, R- 3B Multiple-Family
Residential District-Apartments, R-M Mobile Home Park District, CBD Central
Business District, GB General Business District, I Industrial District, LI
Light Industrial District, SL Shoreland District, PUD Planned Unit Development
District, P Park District and OS Open Space.
(Am. Ord. 2016-4-2, passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2023-8-1, passed 9-12-2023)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least 5 minutes with less than 1 minute
of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The Enforcement Officer or police officer shall not
enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless
the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has
obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction to search for
and seize the animal.
   (E)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
92.05.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Enforcement Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Enforcement Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
92.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
92.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
92.01(E);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least 1 previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Enforcement Officer or police officer shall not enter the property
of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer has
first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant
issued by a court of competent jurisdiction to search for and seize the animal.
If the officer has the permission of the owner, a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper, or other authorized person to enter the property or has obtained a
pass key from a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized
person to have that key shall not be considered unauthorized entry, and a
warrant to search for and seize the animal need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 92.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Enforcement Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
92.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
92.05(C).
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 92.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Enforcement Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to an attack
by a dog under the control of an on-duty law enforcement officer or to an
attack upon an uninvited intruder who has entered the owner's home with
criminal intent.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Enforcement Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten 1 or more persons on 2 or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely locked
pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of 5 feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
2 inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than 2 inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than 2 inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Enforcement Officer
shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked, then
bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic animal as
stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially dangerous,
the Enforcement Officer shall cause 1 owner of the potentially dangerous animal
to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Enforcement Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Enforcement Officer, upon finding
that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part of the
disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written order
containing 1 or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Enforcement Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Enforcement
Officer shall cause 1 owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Enforcement Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than 3 weeks after demand
for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s office shall
be admissible for consideration by the Enforcement Officer without further
foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the temperament of the
animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems proper. The City
Council may order that the Enforcement Officer take the animal into custody for
destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody. If the animal is
ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall immediately make the
animal available to the Enforcement Officer. If the owner does not immediately
make the animal available, the Enforcement Officer shall obtain an order or
warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from a court
of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Enforcement Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Enforcement
Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current address or
given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in writing at
least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner’s name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.12 DANGEROUS ANIMAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of an
animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
      (1)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in § 92.11(C)(3);
      (2)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as may be
amended from time to time;
      (3)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
      (4)   If the animal is a dog and is outside the proper enclosure, the dog
must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed 6
feet in length) and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or
older. The muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the dog from biting any
person or animal, but will not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its
vision or respiration;
      (5)   If the animal is a dog, it must have an easily identifiable,
standardized tag identifying the dog as dangerous affixed to its collar at all
times as specified in M.S. § 347.51 as it may be amended from time to time, and
shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. § 347.151, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (6)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Enforcement Officer shall be
registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days after
the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof to the
Enforcement Officer.
      (7)   If the animal is a dog, the dog must be licensed and up to date on
rabies vaccination. If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date
with rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Enforcement Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
   (C)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
92.12(B), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
92.12(B), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
92.11(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
92.11 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
92.11(F). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Enforcement Officer shall order the animal destroyed in
a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining the
animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for which
the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the provisions of
§
92.12(C). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after
the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may
be disposed of as provided under §
92.11(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 92.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, protection from heat in the summer, and sufficient food
and water for their comfort. Any person not treating their pet in a humane
manner will be subject to the penalties provided in this section.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 92.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an Enforcement Officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the officer’s duty of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
(Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 92.16 [RESERVED.]
§ 92.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats, or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.18 [RESERVED.]
§ 92.19 DOMESTICATED CHICKENS.
   (A)   Except as hereby prohibited in the R-M Manufactured Home Park
District, the keeping of domesticated chickens and/or ducks is permitted in all
other residential property districts, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   Any person wishing to keep chickens, ducks or any combination
thereof in the city on a property shall first obtain a Certificate of
Compliance from the city, and the certificate shall be renewed annually with
the city with proof of premises liability insurance;
      (2)   The principal use of the property shall be single-family
residential, under the R-1 zoning district only;
      (3)   The property shall contain no more than 1 occupied, single family
structure. Chickens, ducks or any combination thereof shall not be permitted on
vacant properties;
      (4)   The number of chickens, ducks or any combination thereof per parcel
shall be limited as follows:
         (a)   Less than 1 acre: maximum of 5 chickens and/or ducks; and
         (b)   One acre or more: maximum of 10 chickens and/or ducks;
      (5)   No person shall keep a rooster;
      (6)   All chickens shall be of the subspecies Gallus domesticus and
tolerant of local climate conditions; all ducks shall be of the subspecies Anas
platyrhynchos or Cairina moschata.
      (7)   Chickens and/or ducks shall not be kept inside the principal
structure;
      (8)   No person shall slaughter chickens and/or ducks on-site;
      (9)   Coops and attached exercise pens shall be provided for all chickens
and/or ducks;
      (10)   Coops and pens shall be fully enclosed including overhead and
constructed of durable materials;
      (11)   The floor area of the coop shall be a minimum of 2 square feet in
area per chicken or duck;
      (12)   The floor area of the attached pen shall be a minimum of 6 square
feet in area per chicken, duck or any combination thereof;
      (13)   Coops and pens shall meet all accessory structure setback
requirements;
      (14)   Coops and pens shall be located in rear yards only;
      (15)   The total square footage of coop and attached pen combined shall
not exceed the following accessory structure requirements on parcels sized as
follows:
         (a)   Less than 1 acre: maximum of 50 square feet; and
         (b)   One acre or more: maximum of 100 square feet;
      (16)   Chickens and/or ducks shall be kept in coops and/or pens at all
times;
      (17)   All food stored for chickens and/or ducks shall be kept in rodent
proof containers stored inside coops or other buildings;
      (18)   All premises in which chickens and/or ducks are kept or
maintained, including coops and pens, shall be kept reasonably clean from
filth, garbage and any substances which attract rodents. All feces shall be
collected and properly disposed of on at least a weekly basis;
      (19)   Disposal of dead chickens and/or ducks shall be done in a manner
consistent with all applicable laws and regulations;
      (20)   Chickens and/or ducks shall not be kept in such a manner as to
constitute a public nuisance as defined by the city;
      (21)   The city may enter and inspect any property, including the coop
and back yard, at any reasonable time for the purpose of investigating either
an actual or suspected violation or to ascertain compliance or noncompliance
with the Certificate of Compliance and the City Code; and
      (22)   Any person wishing to keep chickens and/or ducks pursuant to this
section shall pay an initial Certificate of Compliance and Annual Inspection
Fee in the amount set forth in the current city fee schedule.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COOP. An enclosed structure where female chickens and/or ducks are kept,
including nest boxes for egg-laying and perches on which they can sleep.
      PEN. A fully fenced in area attached to the coop in which the female
chickens and/or ducks have exposure to outside elements.
(Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 1-13-2015; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord.
2023-12-3, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of this chapter
shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
   (C)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
92.02,
92.07,
92.13 and
92.14 are petty misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definition
   
93.02   [Reserved]
   
93.03   Weed elimination
   
93.04   Public health and safety hazards
   
93.05   Installation and repair of water service lines
   
93.06   [Reserved]
   
93.07   Street sprinkling, street flushing, tree care and the like
   
93.08   Personal liability
   
93.09   Assessment
Street Excavations
   
93.20   Permit required
   
93.21   Application and regulations
   
93.22   Bond
   
93.23   General regulations or excavations
   
93.24   Refilling excavations
   
93.25   Map of subsurface installations
Right-of-Way Management
   
93.40   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.41   Definitions
   
93.42   Permit requirement
   
93.43   Permit applications
   
93.44   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.45   Permit fees
   
93.46   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.47   Supplementary applications
   
93.48   Denial of permit
   
93.49   Installation requirements
   
93.50   Inspection
   
93.51   Work done without a permit
   
93.52   Supplementary notification
   
93.53   Revocation of permits
   
93.54   Mapping data
   
93.55   Location of facilities
   
93.56   Damage to other facilities
   
93.57   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.58   Indemnification and liability
   
93.59   Abandoned facilities
   
93.60   Appeal
   
93.61   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Assessment Deferral
   
93.70   Deferral of special assessments provided
   
93.71   Determination of hardship
   
93.72   Disability determination
   
93.73   Deferral termination
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITION.
   The term CURRENT SERVICE as used in this subchapter means 1 or more of the
following: snow, ice or rubbish removal from the sidewalks; weed elimination
from street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal
or elimination of public health or safety hazards from private property,
excluding any hazardous building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as
amended from time to time; installation or repair of water service lines;
street sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust
treatment of streets; repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of
trees and removal of unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets
or private property; and the operation of a street lighting system.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.02 [RESERVED].
§ 93.03 WEED ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Weeds as a nuisance. Any weeds, whether noxious, as defined by law, or
not, growing upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of any
street or alley in the city to a greater height than 12 inches, or which have
gone or are about to go to seed, are a nuisance. The owner and the occupant
shall abate or prevent such nuisance on such property and on land outside the
traveled portion of the street or alley abutting on such property.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   When a nuisance appears to exist in violation of division (A) of
this section, the city shall serve notice upon the owner and occupant of the
property, or the agent of each, by certified mail or by personal service,
ordering such owner and occupant to have such weeds or grass cut and removed
within 10 days after the mailing of the notice, and also stating that in case
of non-compliance such work will be done by the city at the expense of the
owner, and that if unpaid, the charge for such work will be made a special
assessment against the property concerned.
      (2)   When no owner, occupant, or agent of the owner or occupant can be
found, notice shall be posted on the property on which the nuisance exists 10
days before the city eliminates the nuisance, which posting shall constitute
mailed and published notice pursuant to this section.
      (3)   Lack of receipt of notice shall not constitute a defense to the
requirements of this section, provided good faith efforts to comply with this
section are made.
      (4)   Representatives of the city are authorized to go upon property upon
which a nuisance appears to exist in order to measure vegetation height and
take reasonable vegetative samples in connection with such nuisance.
   (C)   Removal by city. If the owner or the occupant of any property in a
city fails to comply with the notice within 10 days after its mailing, the City
Maintenance Department shall cut and remove such weeds. The city shall keep a
record showing the cost of such work attributable to each separate lot and
parcel and shall deliver such information to the City Clerk such cost to be
assessed to the property concerned.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.04 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS.
   When the city removes or eliminates public health or safety hazards from
private property under city ordinance, the administrative officer responsible
for doing the work shall keep a record of the cost of such removal or
elimination against each parcel of property affected and annually deliver such
information to the City Clerk, such cost to be assessed to the property
concerned . This section does not apply to hazardous buildings under the
hazardous building law, M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.05 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Whenever the city installs or repairs water service lines serving private
property under this code, the City Maintenance Department shall keep a record
of the total cost of the installation or repair against the property and
deliver such information to the City Clerk annually by August 15 as to each
parcel of property on which the cost has not been paid.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.06 [RESERVED].
§ 93.07 STREET PROJECTS, TREE CARE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Proposed projects. The Council shall each year determine by motion
what street projects should occur during the year and the kind of work to be
done on each. The Council shall also determine by resolution from time to time
the streets on which trees shall be removed. Before any work is done pursuant
to either of these resolutions, the Clerk shall, under the Council’s direction,
publish notice that the Council will meet to consider such projects. Such
notice shall be published in the official newspaper at least once no less than
2 weeks prior to such meeting of the Council and shall state the date, time,
and place of such meeting, the streets affected and the particular projects
proposed, and the estimated cost of each project, either in total or on the
basis of the proposed assessment per front foot or otherwise.
   (B)   Hearing; order. At such hearing or at any adjournment thereof, the
Council shall hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability
of the proposed projects. The Council shall thereupon adopt a resolution
confirming the original projects with such modifications as it considers
desirable and shall provide for the doing of the work by day labor through the
City Maintenance Department or by contract. The City Maintenance Department
shall keep a record of the cost and the portion of the cost properly
attributable to each lot and parcel of property abutting on the street or alley
on which the work is done, and shall report such information to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.08 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a current service has
been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of such service. As soon
as the service has been completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk, or
other designated official, shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and
thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.09 ASSESSMENT.
   On or before September 1 of each year, the Clerk shall list the total unpaid
charges for each type of current service against each separate lot or parcel to
which they are attributable under this chapter. The Council may then spread the
charges against the property benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. Ch.
429, as amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding 10, as the Council may
determine in each case.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except an authorized city employee or a contractor performing
work under a contract with the city, shall make any excavation in a street,
alley, sidewalk, or public ground without first having secured a permit thereof
from the City Clerk. The fee for such permit shall be as established by the
Council, but no fee shall be required for an excavation made pursuant to a
permit for sewer or water construction.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.21 APPLICATION AND REGULATIONS.
   Applications shall be submitted to the Council. The City Engineer shall
prepare the necessary application and permit forms required under §
93.20. He or she shall also prepare such rules and regulations with respect to
excavations as he or she finds necessary to protect the public from injury,
prevent damage to public or private property, and minimize interference with
the public use of streets, alleys, sidewalks, and public grounds. Any person
making an excavation covered by this section shall comply with such rules and
regulations. In the event the Council requires inspection(s) of the work by the
City Engineer, the cost of such inspection(s) shall be borne by the permittee.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.22 BOND.
   (A)   Any permittee except a public utility corporation or a bonded plumber
shall file with the City Clerk a corporate surety bond in the amount
established per city fee schedule or in such other amount as may be established
by the Council, conditioned that the permittee will:
      (1)   Perform all work in connection with the excavation in accordance
with applicable ordinances and regulations;
      (2)   Indemnify the city and hold it harmless from all damage caused in
the execution of such work; and
      (3)   Pay all costs and damages suffered by the city by reason of the
failure of the permittee to observe the terms of applicable ordinances and
regulations or because of negligence in the execution of the work.
   (B)   The bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the City
Attorney prior to issuance of the permit.
   (C)   Any permittee except a public utility corporation shall furnish proof
that the permittee has in existence an insurance policy protecting him from
liability to the public, including the city, to an amount equal to the maximum
claim the city might be required to pay under M.S. Ch. 466, as amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.23 GENERAL REGULATIONS OR EXCAVATIONS.
   Street openings shall be made in a manner that will cause the least
inconvenience to the public. Provision shall be made for the passage of surface
water and at least 1/2 of the traveled portion of the street shall be left open
and in good condition for the safe passage of vehicles. Open excavations shall
be guarded with substantial barriers and marked with red flags and at night
with red lights or flashing devices. Pipes or mains exposed to freezing
temperatures shall be protected so as to prevent freezing. Any person
responsible for exposing a city main or pipe so that it might be damaged by
freezing shall be liable to the city for all damages caused by such freezing
and all damages sustained by others by such freezing for which the city may be
liable.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.24 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   Every street excavation shall be refilled as soon as possible after the work
is completed and paving, sidewalks, and appurtenances shall be replaced in at
least as good condition as before the excavation to the satisfaction of the
City Engineer. All dirt and debris shall be removed immediately. Any person who
fails to comply with these requirements within 24 hours after notice from the
city shall be liable to the city for the full cost incurred by the city in
remedying the defect and restoring the street, sidewalk, alley or public ground
to its proper condition. The cost shall be an obligation of the surety on the
bond of the permittee.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.25 MAP OF SUBSURFACE INSTALLATIONS.
   The city shall maintain, to the extent such information is available, a map
showing the location of all city utility and other installations made beneath
the surface of any public street, grounds or right-of-way. The information on
the map shall be sufficiently complete and accurate to permit anyone making an
excavation in a public place having any underground installation to avoid
damage to any existing underground installation and to properly locate any new
underground facilities which shall be recorded on the map as soon as
practicable upon the issuance of an excavation permit or the completion of a
contract for the installation of city underground installations.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 93.40 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.41 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, Minn. Rules 7819.0100 subparts 1
through 23, and Minn. Rules 7560.0100 subparts 1 through 12, as amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and are incorporated into this
chapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.42 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, install or place facilities in the
right-of-way, or construct a driveway entrance to a city street, without first
having obtained the appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
      (3)   Driveway access and construction. A driveway access and
construction permit is required prior to constructing an access driveway to any
city street located in the city.
      (4)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit is
required by a registrant to erect or install a wireless support structure, to
collocate a small wireless facility, or to otherwise install a small wireless
facility in the specified portion or the right of way, to the extent specified
therein, provided that such permit shall remain in effect for the length of
time the facility is in use, unless lawfully revoked.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person:
      (1)   Makes a supplementary application for another permit before the
expiration of the initial permit; and
      (2)   A new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000 subpart 3, and
notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
   (E)   Consolidated applications.
      (1)   An applicant may file a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application addressing the proposed collocation of up to 15 small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a 2-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (2)   In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the
city may approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not
use denial of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless
facilities in the application.
   (F)   Action on small wireless facility permit applications. The city shall
review an application for collocation of a small wireless facility using a
preexisting structure within 60 days and an application for attachment of a
small wireless facility using a new structure within 90 days after filing of
such application. The small wireless facility permit, and any associated
building permit application, shall be deemed approved if the city fails to
approve or deny the application within 90 days after the date a small wireless
facility permit application is filed. The 90-day deadline may be tolled if:
      (1)   The city receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than 30 small wireless facilities within a 7-day
period. In such case, the city may extend the deadline for all such
applications by 30 days by informing the affected applicants in writing of such
extension.
      (2)   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the city provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
30 days of receipt the application. Upon submission of additional documents or
information, the city shall have ten days to notify the applicant in writing of
any still-missing information.
      (3)   The city and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing
to toll the review period.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.43 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for an excavation, obstruction, or small wireless facility
permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon compliance with
the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permittee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the City Clerk;
         (b)   Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
            1.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
            2.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-of-
way by the permittee, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the City Clerk be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the City Clerk in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter;
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate
required to be filed under M.S.§ 47.16 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State; and
         (h)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.44 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. § 216D.01-.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minnesota
Rules Chapter 7560.
   (C)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the city.
   (D)   Driveway access. As a condition of the applicable permit, permitees
must comply with the most current engineering standards adopted by the city.
   (E)   Small wireless facility conditions. In addition to division (B), the
erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the collocation of a
small wireless facility, or other installation of a small wireless facility in
the right-of-way, shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the
particular wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications,
and at the height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      (2)   No new wireless support structure installed within the right-of-way
shall exceed 50 feet in height without the city’s written authorization,
provided that the city may impose a lower height limit in the applicable permit
to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to protect the right-of-way
and its current use, and further provided that a registrant may replace an
existing wireless support structure exceeding 50 feet in height with a
structure of the same height subject to such conditions or requirements as may
be imposed in the applicable permit.
      (3)   No wireless facility may extend more than 10 feet above its
wireless support structure.
      (4)   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the city may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of-way.
      (5)   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the city may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of such structure.
      (6)   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support
structure, the city may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or
relocation requirements on the replacement of such structure.
      (7)   The permittee shall screen all aboveground facilities and make
reasonable accommodations for decorative wireless support structures or signs,
as required by the city. Screening methods shall include the use of shrubs,
trees and/or with landscape rock or installation using stealth or camouflaged
forms of the facility.
   (F)   Small wireless facility agreement.
      (1)   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on a small
wireless support structure owned or controlled by the city, or any other city
asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has executed a standard small
wireless facility collocation agreement with the city. The standard collocation
agreement may require payment as set forth in the city fee schedule.
      (2)   The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not
in lieu of, the required small wireless facility permit, provided, however,
that the applicant shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or
franchise in order to collocate. Issuance of a small wireless facility permit
does not supersede, alter or affect any then-existing agreement between the
city and applicant.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.45 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation and driveway access permit fees. The city shall impose
excavation and driveway access permit fees in amounts set forth in the current
city fee schedule sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall impose the obstruction permit
fee as set forth in the current city fee schedule and shall be in an amount
sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall impose a small
wireless facility permit fee in an amount set forth in the current city fee
schedule sufficient to recover:
      (1)   Management costs; and
      (2)   City engineering, make-ready, and construction costs associated
with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit, or
driveway access permit, shall be issued without payment of excavation or
obstruction permit or driveway access fees. The city may allow applicant to pay
such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
93.53 are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (G)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rule 7819.1000.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.46 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Permittee upon
notification from the city, shall correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the city. The work shall be completed
within 5 calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonable.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.47 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A permit is valid only for the area of the right-
of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside the area
specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee which
determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated shall before working in that greater area:
      (1)   Make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby; and
      (2)   Be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A permit is valid only for the dates specified in
the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or,
except as provided herein, continue working after the end date. If a permittee
does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply for a new permit
for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit or an extension of
the old permit before working after the end date of the previous permit. This
supplementary application must be submitted before the permit end date.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.48 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.49 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.50 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to city
personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Maintenance Department.
      (1)   At the time of inspection the Maintenance Department may order the
immediate cessation of any work, which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety, or well being of the public.
      (2)   The Maintenance Department may issue an order to the permittee for
any work that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct
the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within 10 days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Maintenance
Department that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been
presented within the required time, the Maintenance Department may revoke the
permit pursuant to §
93.53.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.51 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each person with facilities in the right-of-way
shall immediately notify the city of any event regarding its facilities that it
considers being an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take
whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business
days after the occurrence of the emergency the owner shall apply for the
necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of
the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter
for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the city becomes aware
of an emergency regarding facilities, the city will attempt to contact the
local representative of each facility owner affected, or potentially affected,
by the emergency. In any event, the city may take whatever action it deems
necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the
person whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
code, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.52 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.53 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any permit, without a fee refund, if there is a substantial breach of
the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any
material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the
permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit upon
the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.46.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations might be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, which will cure the breach. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.54 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.4000 and 7819.4100.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150
subpart 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the city
evidence of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minnesota Rules
governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for:
      (1)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Ch. 429; and
      (2)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or other
subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The city shall reasonably
determine the appropriate method of providing such information. Failure to
provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals installed may
result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or for future
permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.55 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or city shall strive to the extent possible to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be
guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs
for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time
of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing
facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements
and development projects which have been determined to be in the public
interest.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.56 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the city shall notify the
local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as required.
The costs associated therewith will be billed to that facility owner and must
be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which
it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another caused during the
city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s facilities.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.57 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains
facilities, the facility owner’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are
governed by Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.58 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.59 ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Removal of abandoned facilities. Any person who has abandoned facilities in
any right-of-way shall remove them from that right-of-way if required in
conjunction with other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless
the city waives this requirement.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.60 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been
denied a permit; (3) has had permit revoked; (4) believes that the fees imposed
are invalid; or (5) disputes a determination of the city regarding §
93.47(A), may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision
by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be
in writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.61 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
ASSESSMENT DEFERRAL
§ 93.70 DEFERRAL OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS PROVIDED.
   The Council may defer the payment of any special assessment on homestead
property owned by a person who is 65 years of age or older, or retired by
reason of permanent and total disability, or a member of the Minnesota National
Guard (or other military reserves) ordered into active military service, when
payment of the assessment would create a hardship upon the property owner as
defined herein. Only special assessments for public improvements are eligible
for deferment consideration. The deferment shall be granted upon a
certification by the owner on the form prescribed by the County Auditor
supplemented by the City Clerk to establish the qualification of the owner for
such deferment. The application shall be made within 30 days after the adoption
of the assessment roll by the Council and shall be renewed each following year
upon the filing of a similar application not later than September 30. The
Council shall either grant or deny the deferment. Compounding interest at the
current rate for special assessments shall be included with all special
assessment deferrals. If the Council grants the deferment, the Clerk shall
notify the County Auditor who shall, in accordance with M.S. § 435.194, record
a notice of the deferment with the County Recorder setting forth the amount of
the assessment.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.71 DETERMINATION OF HARDSHIP.
   (A)   A hardship shall be deemed prima facie to exist when the total annual
special assessment amount exceeds 1% of the annual adjusted gross income of the
applicant and spouse according to their most recent federal income tax return.
If no such return was made, the Clerk shall require the applicant to submit
other pertinent information to show that this qualification is met.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, the City Council may
consider exceptional and unusual circumstances pertaining to an applicant not
covered by foregoing standards; but any determination shall be made in a
nondiscriminatory manner and shall not give the applicant an unreasonable
preference or advantage over other applicants.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.72 DISABILITY DETERMINATION.
   Retirement by reason of permanent and total disability shall be deemed prima
facie to exist when the applicant presents a sworn affidavit by a licensed
medical doctor attesting that the applicant is unable to be gainfully employed
because of a permanent and total disability.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 93.73 DEFERRAL TERMINATION.
   (A)   The option to defer the payment of special assessments shall terminate
and all amounts accumulated plus applicable interest shall become due upon the
occurrence of any one of the following events:
      (1)   The death of the owner when there is no spouse who is eligible for
deferment;
      (2)   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any part of the
property;
      (3)   Loss of homestead status on the property;
      (4)   The city determines the owner or owner’s spouse no longer qualifies
for the deferral;
      (5)   The city determines that there would be no hardship to require
immediate or partial payment; or
      (6)   Failure to file a renewal application within the time prescribed by
§
93.70.
   (B)   Upon the occurrence of one of the events specified in this section,
the Council shall terminate the deferment. Thereupon, the City Clerk shall
notify the County Assessor and the County Auditor of the termination, including
the amounts accumulated on unpaid installments plus applicable interest which
shall become due and payable as a result of the termination.
(Ord. 2021-10-1, passed 10-12-2021)
CHAPTER 94: JUNKED PROPERTY
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Exemptions
   
94.04   Nuisance
   
94.05   Public property
   
94.06   Private property
 
   
94.98   Violation
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Junked motor vehicles, junked appliances, and discarded furniture
constitute:
      (1)   A hazard to the health and welfare of the people of the city in
that they can harbor noxious diseases, furnish shelter and breeding places for
vermin, and present physical dangers to the safety and well-being of children
and other citizens;
      (2)   A blight on the landscape of the city and are, therefore,
detrimental to the environment; and
      (3)   A waste of a valuable source of useful metal, in the case of junked
motor vehicles and appliances.
   (B)   It is, therefore, in the public interest the present accumulation of
junked motor vehicles, junked appliances, and discarded furniture within the
city be eliminated and that future accumulation thereof be prevented.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCARDED FURNITURE. An item of furniture originally intended for use within
the interior of a building but left or stored out-of-doors.
   JUNKED MOTOR VEHICLE.
      (a)   An unlicensed motor vehicle;
      (b)   A motor vehicle lacking vital component parts, including motor
vehicles with pioneer, classic car, collector or street rod license;
      (c)   A motor vehicle which is in an inoperable condition, including
motor vehicles with pioneer, classic car, collector or street rod license;
      (d)   A motor vehicle which has remained for a period of more than 48
hours on public property without the consent of the person in control of such
property; or
      (e)   A motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner and accepted
by the city.
   JUNKED APPLIANCE. A household appliance lacking vital component parts or in
an inoperable condition.
   OFFICER CHARGED WITH ENFORCEMENT. The individual authorized by the City
Council to enforce the terms of this chapter as defined in §
95.05.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and which is not public property as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street, alley or highway which shall include the entire
width between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the
purposes of vehicular travel, and also means any other publicly owned property
or facility.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle or appliance that are
essential to its mechanical functioning.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 94.03 EXEMPTIONS.
   A vehicle shall not be a junked motor vehicle and an appliance shall not be
a junked appliance, as defined in this section, when kept:
   (A)   In an enclosed garage or storage building;
   (B)   On the premises of a junkyard or a motor vehicle or appliance repair
business when such junkyard or business is maintained and/or licensed in
accordance with Minnesota Statutes or with local ordinances and zoning
regulations and, in the case of a repair business, each such motor vehicle or
appliance is being actively and consistently worked on and is being maintained
or stored in an area screened from public view by an appropriate fence; or
   (C)   In an appropriate storage place or depository maintained in a lawful
place and manner by the city or authorized by the city.
(Ord. 2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 94.04 NUISANCE.
   The presence of any junked motor vehicle, junked appliance, discarded
furniture, or parts thereof on private or public property is a public nuisance
which may be abated as such in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 95.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 94.05 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall park, store, leave, or permit the parking, storing, or
leaving of any junked motor vehicle, junked appliance, or discarded furniture
of any kind, whether attended or not, upon any public property within the city.
   (A)   Whenever any officer charged with enforcement of the Stacy City Code
finds any junked motor vehicle, junked appliance, or discarded furniture on
public property within the city, such officer is authorized to provide for the
removal thereof to a place of safety.
   (B)   Any junked motor vehicle, junked appliance, or discarded furniture
which causes an obstruction and hazard to traffic may be removed by the city.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 94.06 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person owning, in charge of, or in control of any real property within
the city, whether as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow
any junked motor vehicle, junked appliance, or discarded furniture of any kind
to remain on the property longer than 96 hours. The only exception is in the
Agricultural District where partially dismantled, inoperative, wrecked, or
junked motor vehicles or goods may remain on the property if enclosed in a
building or if located within an area not visible to the public or neighboring
property.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever it comes to the attention of the officer
charged with enforcement that any person has any junked motor vehicle, junked
appliance, or discarded furniture on such private property, a written notice of
violation shall be served upon the person by the officer charged with
enforcement or other city official requesting the removal thereof in the time
specified in this chapter.
   (B)   Responsibility for removal. Upon proper notice, an owner of the junked
motor vehicle, junked appliance, or discarded furniture, and the owner or
occupant of the private property on which the same is located, shall be
responsible for its removal, jointly and severally.
   (C)   Notice procedure. The notice of violation to the owner or occupant of
the private property where the nuisance is located shall be served as provided
under
Chapter 95.
   (D)   Additional content of notice of violation. Any notice of violation
served pursuant to this chapter shall, in addition to other requirements,
contain a request for removal within 10 days after the mailing of such notice.
The notice of violation shall further advise that failure to comply with such
notice shall be a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord.
2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021)
§ 94.98 VIOLATION.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be subject to
the penalty provision in §
10.99. Each day shall constitute a separate and distinct violation.
(Ord. 121, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2021-11-1, passed 11-9-2021) Penalty, see
§
10.99
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Public nuisance defined
   
95.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
95.02A   Public nuisances; weeds, growing grasses, other vegetation and lawn
maintenance
   
95.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
95.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
95.05   Officer charged with enforcement
   
95.06   Notice and abatement
   
95.07   Repeat nuisance call service fee
   
95.08   Recovery of costs
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public; or
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway, right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Commits or allows any other act or omission declared by law or this
chapter to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically
provided.
(Prior Code, § 801.01) (Am. Ord. 2017-10-1, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 95.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting health, except
in the Open Space/Carlos Avery WMA District:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter, except for a clearly contained and maintained compost pile;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All non-naturally-occurring ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All nuisance vegetation as defined as defined in § 95.02A;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of persons having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any trade or business not licensed as required by law.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2011-6-3, passed 6-14-2011; Am. Ord.
2017-10-1, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 95.02A PUBLIC NUISANCES; WEEDS, GROWING GRASSES, OTHER VEGETATION AND LAWN
MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Definitions. NUISANCE VEGETATION shall include the following:
      (1)   Vegetation providing safe harborage for rats, mice, snakes or other
vermin, on any parcel of land less than 1 acre in size that has a building
constructed on it;
      (2)   Vegetation which obstructs the safe view of traffic at an
intersection or driveway;
      (3)   Noxious weeds as defined by Minnesota state statute;
      (4)   Dead or dying trees or plants which may cause a hazardous situation
if they fall;
      (5)   Any growth of weeds, growing grasses, brush or other rank
vegetation exceeding 12 inches in height or any accumulation of dead weeds,
grass, or brush on platted or developed property or within 100 feet of platted
or developed property. DEVELOPED PROPERTY shall mean that the property has been
improved with the construction of buildings, parking lots, or other facilities
excluding underground utilities for sewer or water lines. This requirement
shall not apply to:
         (a)   NATURAL AREAS which shall be defined as densely wooded areas or
marshes;
         (b)   Any public land area, including parks, which is left in a
natural state as a prairie, wetland, wooded area or meadow;
         (c)   Property zoned Agriculture and actively and primarily used for
agricultural purposes;
         (d)   On private land, the areas of natural vegetation, and identified
as a native/natural planting area or prairie restoration area as part of the
overall landscaping plan approved by the City Building Inspector, including
areas of native wild flowers and other similar plants as part of the overall
natural landscaping plan; the fee for the review is set forth in §
34.01 as amended from time to time;
         (e)   Growing grasses within 10 feet of a body of water, or within a
required buffer, including wetlands, ponds (including storm water ponds) and
lakes;
         (f)   Growing grasses or natural vegetation that are located on a
STEEP SLOPE, defined as lands having slopes over 12%; or
         (g)   Compost areas which meet the following conditions:
            1.   The compost is in a compost box which is of adequate
construction to offer the decomposition of the material; and
            2.   The compost is screened from the view of adjacent property
owners.
   (B)   Lawn maintenance.
      (1)   Once an area has been converted to turf grass the property owner,
tenant, or occupant shall not allow the turf grass to exceed the height of 7
inches or be allowed to go to seed. Turf grass higher than 7 inches is nuisance
vegetation.
      (2)   No property owner, tenant, or occupant shall allow any herbaceous
vegetation growth upon the adjacent city right-of-way to grow to a height
greater than 7 inches or to allow such vegetation to go to seed except as
otherwise permitted herein. Doing so constitutes a nuisance violation.
         (a)   Exception: This requirement shall not apply to properties where
the adjacent right-of-way is a rural ditch without curb and gutter.
(Ord. 2011-6-3, passed 6-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2017-10-1, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 95.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in such occupation;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution, promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, persons are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a plan; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the transportation of intoxicating liquor, or for
promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal purpose.
(Prior Code, § 801.03) (Am. Ord. 2017-10-1, passed 10-10-2017)
§ 95.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be public nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   Any snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under such conditions
as are permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (E)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (F)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free uses of the streets or sidewalks;
   (G)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (H)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (I)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (J)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (K)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
property;
   (L)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or to fire, health or safety
hazards from such accumulation or from the rank growth of vegetation among the
items so accumulated;
   (M)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child coming on the
promises when it is located;
   (N)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (O)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (P)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (Q)   Driving motorized scooters, bicycles, motorcycles or any type of
motorized vehicle on any sidewalk, walkway or private property of others and/or
the driving of said vehicles in a loud, noisy or unsafe manner and/or in groups
of more than 2 on any public street, alley or roadway;
   (R)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandle, as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (S)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared to be public nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace or welfare:
      (1)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that
causes the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet or repose, which
participation is primarily audible by another person at a distance of 50 feet
or more from the source;
      (2)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person, or precludes such person's enjoyment of property, or
affects such person's property value, and which noise is audible at a distance
of 50 feet or more from its source;
      (3)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this section by reference;
      (4)   The use of any vehicle that creates loud and grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise beyond the normal noise generated by a motor vehicle of
similar design and purpose that is reasonably maintained and loaded;
      (5)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom, and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
      (6)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading or unpacking
of any vehicle, which noise is audible at a distance of 50 feet or more from
the source of the noise;
      (7)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine or other device for producing or reproducing sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby, which sound is audible at a distance of 50 feet
or more from the source of the sound;
      (8)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on Sunday or a holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision;
      (9)   Refuse hauling. No licensed or permitted garbage hauler shall
collect or remove garbage or refuse in any residential district, except between
the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, or between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday;
      (10)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY is defined for this
section as the repair, demolition, removal, building, assembling or placing of
any property;
      (11)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The operation
of any device referred to in division (S)(7) between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line of
the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50 feet
or more from the source if it is located outside a structure or building, shall
be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Prior Code, § 801.04) (Am. Ord. 2013-8-3, passed 8-27-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-11-
1, passed 11-12-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-10-1, passed 10-10-2017) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.05 OFFICER CHARGED WITH ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Council shall appoint an officer charged with enforcement to
enforce the provisions of this chapter relating to nuisances affecting public
safety. Such officer shall have the authority and power to inspect private
premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and
maintenance of public nuisances. Such officer may be a City Council member.
(Prior Code, § 801.05) (Am. Ord. 120, passed 1-13-1998)
§ 95.06 NOTICE AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Abatement procedure. In addition to any other remedy available at law,
the city may abate a public nuisance pursuant to the following procedure:
      (1)   Notice of violation. Whenever the officer charged with enforcement
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on premises in
the city, the officer shall notify, by written notice of violation, the owner
of record and the occupant, if any, either in person or by certified mail of
the premises of such fact and order that such public nuisance be terminated or
abated. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept service of the notice of City
Council hearing, notice of violation shall be served by posting it on the
premises. The notice of violation shall:
         (a)   Identify the public nuisance;
         (b)   Identify the steps to be taken to abate the public nuisance;
         (c)   Specify the time within which the public nuisance is to be
abated.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. If the notice of violation is not
complied with within the time specified, the officer charged with enforcement
shall serve written notice of a City Council hearing to determine or abate a
public nuisance on the owner of record and occupant of the premises, if any,
either in person or by certified mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept service of the notice of City Council hearing, notice of City Council
hearing shall be served by posting it on the premises. Such notice of City
Council hearing shall contain the time, date, place and subject of such
hearing.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Following the hearing to determine or
abate a public nuisance, at which all interested parties have been given an
opportunity to speak, the Council may determine that the condition identified
in the notice of violation is a public nuisance and order that if the public
nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the Council the city may
seek injunctive relief, including abatement. The city shall serve a copy of the
City Council order on the owner of record and the occupant and lienholder of
the premises, if any, in the manner provided for service of a summons in a
civil action. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown,
or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept service, the City Council
order shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (4)   Judicial determination. If the public nuisance is not abated within
the time prescribed by the City Council order, a copy of the order with proof
of service shall be filed with the Housing Court Administrator of District
Court of the county in which the property is located along with a motion to
enforce the order. At the hearing, the judicial officer shall determine whether
a public nuisance under this code exists and, if so, shall authorize the city
to enter onto the property and abate the public nuisance. The Court
Administrator shall cause a copy of the judgment to be mailed forthwith to
persons upon whom the original order was served.
   (B)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. Notwithstanding the above
procedures, in cases of emergency, where delay in abatement required to
complete the notice and procedure requirements set forth in division (A)above
will permit a continuing public nuisance to unreasonably endanger public
health, safety or welfare, the City Council may order summary enforcement and
abate the public nuisance. To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer
charged with enforcement shall determine that a public nuisance exists or is
being maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of the
public nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety, or welfare.
The officer charged with enforcement shall notify in writing the owner of the
premises and occupant, if any, of the nature of the public nuisance, of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement, and of the time and place of the
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement and shall order
that the public nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. The City Council
shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice to the
owner or occupant is a public nuisance and whether public health, safety, or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delaying abatement required to
complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above, and may order summary
enforcement to abate the public nuisance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city without notice or other
process from immediately abating any condition which poses an imminent and
serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Prior Code, § 801.06) (Am. Ord. 120, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2017-10-1,
passed 10-10-2017)
§ 95.07 REPEAT NUISANCE CALL SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public safety,
health and welfare and to prevent and abate repeat service response calls by
the city to the same property or location for nuisance service calls, as
defined herein, which prevalent police or public safety services to other
residents of the city. It is the intent of the city by the adoption of this
section to impose and collect service call fees from the owner or occupant, or
both, of property to which city officials must repeatedly respond for any
repeat nuisance event or activity that generates extraordinary costs to the
city. The repeat nuisance service call fee is intended to cover that cost over
and above the cost of providing normal law or code enforcement services and
police protection city wide.
   (B)   Scope and application.  This section shall apply to all owners and
occupants of private property that is the subject, or location of, the repeat
nuisance service call by the city. This section shall apply to any repeat
nuisance service calls as set forth herein made by a peace officer, part time
peace officer, community service officer, enforcement officers and code
enforcement technicians.
   (C)   Definition of nuisance call or similar conduct. The term NUISANCE
SERVICE CALL shall mean any activity, conduct, or condition occurring upon
private property within the city which: (i) unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any member of the
public; (ii) or will, or will tend to, alarm, anger or disturb others or
provoke breach of the peace, to which the city is required to respond,
including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Any activity, conduct, or condition deemed as a public nuisance
under any provision of the city code;
      (2)   Any activity, conduct, or condition in violation of any provision
of
Ch. 95 of this code;
       (3)   Any conduct, activity or condition constituting a violation of
Minnesota State laws prohibiting or regulating prostitution, gambling,
controlled substances, use of firearms; and
      (4)   Any conduct, activity, or condition constituting disorderly conduct
under M.S. Ch. 609 as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Repeat nuisance service call fee. The city may impose a repeat
nuisance service call fee upon the owner or occupant of private property if the
city has rendered services or responded to the property on three or more
occasions within a period of 365 days in response to or for the abatement of
nuisance conduct, activity, or condition of the same or similar kind. The
repeat nuisance service call fee under this section shall be an amount as set
forth in the current city fee schedule. All repeat nuisance service call fees
imposed and charged against the owner or occupant under this section shall be
deemed delinquent 30 days after the city's mailing a billing statement
therefore. Delinquent payments are subject to a 10% late penalty of the amount
due.
   (E)   Notice. No repeat nuisance service call fee may be imposed against an
owner or occupant of property without first providing the owner or occupant
with written notice of the prior nuisance service calls prior to the latest
nuisance service call rendered by the city upon which the fee is imposed. The
written notice shall:
      (1)   State the nuisance conduct, activity or condition that is or has
occurred or is maintained or permitted on the property, the dates of the
nuisance conduct, activity or condition;
      (2)   State that the owner or occupant may be subject to a repeat
nuisance call service fee if a third nuisance service call is rendered to the
property for the same nuisance, in addition to the city's right to seek other
legal remedies or actions for abatement of the nuisance or compliance with the
law; and
      (3)   Be served personally or by U.S. Mail upon the owner or occupant at
the last known address.
   (F)   Right to appeal nuisance service call fee.
      (1)   Upon the imposition of a repeat nuisance service call fee, the city
shall inform the owner or occupant of his or her right to a hearing on the
alleged repeat nuisance service calls. The owner or occupant upon whom the fee
is imposed may request a hearing by serving upon the City Clerk within five
business days of the mailing of the fee invoice, inclusive of the day the
invoice is mailed, a written request for hearing. The matter shall be heard by
the hearing office within 14 days of the date of the owner's or occupant's
request for hearing.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner and the
Minnesota Rules of Civil Procedure and Rules of Evidence shall not be strictly
applied. The hearing need not be transcribed, but may be transcribed at the
sole expense of the party who requests the transcription. After considering all
evidence submitted, the Hearing Officer shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions on the issue of whether the city responded to or rendered services
for repeat nuisance service calls of the same or similar kind on three or more
occasions within a 365-day period. The findings and conclusions shall be served
upon the owner or occupant by U.S. Mail within five days of the notice of
hearing.
      (3)   An owner's or occupant's right to a hearing shall be deemed waived
if the owner or occupant fails to serve a written request for hearing as
required herein or fails to appear at the scheduled hearing date. Upon waiver
of the right to hearing, or upon the hearing officer's written findings of fact
and conclusions that the repeat nuisance call service fee is warranted
hereunder, the owner or occupant shall immediately pay the fee imposed.
   (G)   Legal remedies nonexclusive. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the city's other available legal remedies for any violation
of the law which may constitute a nuisance service call hereunder, including
criminal, civil, injunctive or others.
(Ord. 2006-3-4, passed 3-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2020-11-4, passed 11-10-2020)
§ 95.08 RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including but not limited to all maintenance, administrative,
technical, engineering and legal costs. As soon as the work has been completed
and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official designated by the
Council shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect infected trees, the Clerk shall, on or before September 1
next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along
with all other such charges as well as other charges for current services to be
assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as amended from time to time, against each
separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The Council may
then spread the charges against such property under that statute and other
pertinent statutes or ordinances for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the Council may determine in each case.
(Prior Code, § 801.07) (Am. Ord. 120, passed 1-13-1998; Am. Ord. 2003-7-3,
passed 8-12-2003; Am. Ord. 2006-3-4, passed 3-28-2006)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 801.08) (Am. Ord. 120, passed 1-13-1998)
CHAPTER 96: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
96.01   Findings and purpose
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Location
   
96.04   License required
§ 96.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   A study conducted by the Minnesota Attorney General has examined the
impact that sexually orientated adult establishments have in cities in
Minnesota and throughout the country.
   (B)   This study concluded that adult establishments have an adverse impact
on surrounding neighborhoods.
   (C)   Those impacts include increased crime rates, lower property values,
increased transiency, neighborhood blight, and potential health risks.
   (D)   Based on these studies and findings, the City Council concludes:
      (1)   The public health, safety, morals, and general welfare will be
promoted by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments;
      (2)   Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types
set forth above;
      (3)   The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish
if adult establishments are governed by location requirements, licensing
requirements, and health requirements; and
      (4)   It is not the intent to prohibit adult establishments from having a
reasonable opportunity to locate in the city.
(Ord. 2008-8-1, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT.
      (1)   A business engaged in any of the following activities or which
utilizes any of the following business procedures or practices.
         (a)   A business that is conducted exclusively for the patronage of
adults and as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage, either
by operation or law, or by the owners of the business.
         (b)   Any business that has a substantial or significant portion of
its floor space that is characterized by an emphasis on material depicting,
exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   An ADULT ESTABLISHMENT includes, but is not limited to, any adult
use as defined in this chapter.
   ADULT USE. Any of the activities and businesses described below.
      ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides
the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE OR VIDEO STORE. A building or portion of a building over
50 square feet used for the barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of
printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, or motion
picture film if the building or portion of a building is not open to the public
generally but only to 1 or more classes of the public excluding any minor by
reason of age or if a substantial or significant portion of the items are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which excludes
minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in or
listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by
reason of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club which
restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage,
if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to the customers and
who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by the customers.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or
mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture machines,
projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to 5
or fewer persons per machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed
are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the building or
portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age
or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by
patrons therein.
      ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designed
for sexual stimulation.
      ADULT SAUNA.  A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building
used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent if the building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, and zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal, or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments, or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of any such person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal, or anal
irrigation.
   SUBSTANTIAL OR SIGNIFICANT.  At least 10% of the portion of the floor area
of the business, or 20% of the gross receipts of the business (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) is devoted to items, merchandise, or other material
that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or
description of specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
(Ord. 2008-8-1, passed 8-12-2008)
§ 96.03 LOCATION.
   Adult establishments shall be located only in the district zoned Industrial
and shall be located at least 500 radial feet from another adult use and at
least 500 radial feet as measured in a straight line from the closest point of
the building in which the adult use and its associated parking areas are
located to the property line of:
   (A)   Residentially zoned property;
   (B)   A licensed day care center;
   (C)   A public or private educational facility classified as an elementary,
junior high, middle school, or senior high;
   (D)   A public park;
   (E)   A place of worship;
   (F)   Movie theater;
   (G)   The Central Business District;
   (H)   Commercial District; and
   (I)   Community Center.
(Ord. 2008-8-1, passed 8-12-2008; Am. Ord. 2022-7-1, passed 7-12-2022)
§ 96.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall own or operate an adult establishment
without having first secured a license as provided for in this chapter.
   (A)   Applications.  The application for an adult establishment license
shall be submitted on a form provided by the city and shall include:
      (1)   The name, residence, phone number, and birth date of the applicant,
if an individual; and if a corporation, the names, residences, phone numbers,
and birth dates of those owners holding more than 5% of the outstanding stock
of the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the manager of
the operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located;
      (4)   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to
a sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of
which the applicant, or in the case of a corporation, the owners of more than
0% of the outstanding stock of the corporation, have been convicted, and
whether or not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate
a similar type of business in other communities;
      (5)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation, which shall be limited to Monday through
Saturday 10:00 a.m. through 10:00 p.m.;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (B)   License fees.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the city for payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees
shall be paid into the general fund of the municipality. Upon rejection of any
applications for a license, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of 1 year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rated fee. In computing the fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as 1 month.
      (3)   The annual license fee for adult establishments shall be in the
amount as set forth in the current city fee schedule.
      (4)   No part of the fee paid for any license shall be refunded except in
the following instances upon application to the City Council within 30 days
from the happening of the event. There shall be refunded a pro rata portion of
the fee for the unexpired period of the license, computed on a monthly basis,
when operation of the licensed business ceases not less than 1 month before
expiration of the license because of:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   The licensee’s illness;
         (c)   The licensee’s death; or
         (d)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
   (C)   Granting of license.
      (1)   The City Council, or such persons as they shall designate, shall
complete their investigation within 30 days after the City Council
Administrator receives a complete application and all license and investigative
fees.
      (2)   If the application is for a renewal, the applicant shall be allowed
to continue business until the City Council has determined to renew or refuse
to renew a license.
      (3)   If, after such investigation, it appears that the applicant and the
place proposed for the business are eligible for a license under the criteria
set forth in this section, then the license shall be issued by the City Council
within 30 days after the investigation is completed. Otherwise the license
shall be denied.
      (4)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
premises without the approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a
partnership or a corporation, a change in identity of any of the principals of
the partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license. All
adult establishments existing at the time of the adoption of this section shall
be required to obtain an annual license.
      (5)   An applicant for any license under this section shall deposit with
the city at the time an original application is submitted, an amount as set
forth in the current city fee schedule to cover the costs involved in verifying
the license application and to cover the expense of any investigation needed to
assure compliance with this section. If the investigation and verification
process is conducted outside the State of Minnesota, the city may require the
actual investigation costs not exceeding the amount set forth in the current
city fee schedule.
   (D)   Persons ineligible for license.  No license shall be granted to or
held by any person:
      (1)   Under 18;
      (2)   Who has been convicted of a felony or of violating any law of this
state or local ordinance relating to sex offenses and/or adult establishments;
or
      (3)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued.
   (E)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for adult establishments on any
premises where the owner or the applicant has been convicted of a violation of
this chapter, or where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until
1 year has elapsed after the conviction or revocation.
      (2)   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of this chapter
adoption, no license shall be granted for any adult establishment, which is not
in compliance with the city’s zoning regulations. Light Industrial District.
   (F)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   Every license shall be granted subject to the following conditions
and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any applicable sections of the
code of the city, or state or federal law which ever is more restrictive.
      (2)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place at all times.
      (3)   No minor shall be permitted on the licensed premises under age 18.
      (4)   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the
unqualified right to enter, inspect, and search the premises of a licensee
during business hours.
      (5)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
      (6)   An adult use-principal business shall not sell or dispense
nonintoxicating or intoxicating liquors nor shall it be located in a building
which contains a business that sells or dispenses nonintoxicating or
intoxicating liquors.
   (G)   Additional conditions for adult entertainment centers. In addition to
all other conditions set forth in this chapter, the following conditions apply
to adult entertainment centers.
      (1)   No owner, operator, or manager of an adult entertainment center
shall permit or allow any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude, in
such a way as to expose specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   No dancer, live entertainer, patron, or any other person shall
expose specified anatomical areas in an adult entertainment center.
      (3)   The owner, operator, or manager of an adult entertainment center
shall provide the following information to the city concerning any persons who
dance or perform live entertainment at the adult entertainment center: the
person’s name, home address, home telephone number, date of birth, and any
aliases.
      (4)   No dancer, live entertainer, or performer shall be under 18 years
old.
      (5)   All dancing or live entertainment shall occur on a platform
intended for that purpose and which is raised at least 2 feet from the level of
the floor.
      (6)   No dancer or performer shall perform any dance or live
entertainment closer than 10 feet to any patron.
      (7)   No dancer or performer shall fondle or caress any patron and no
patron shall fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
      (8)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or
performer.
      (9)   No dancer or performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
      (10)   Partitions facilitating sexual activity: a licensee under this
section shall not allow any partition between a subdivision, portion, or part
of the licensed premises having any aperture which is designed or constructed
to facilitate sexual intercourse, sodomy, or fondling or other erotic touching
of human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair, buttocks, or female breast
between persons on either side of the partition.
      (11)   Restrictions on booths, stalls, and partitions: a licensee under
this section shall not allow or have on the licensed premises or adjoining
areas any booths, stalls, or partitions used for the viewing of motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment, including, but not limited to, live
entertainment that have doors, curtains, or portal partitions, unless the
booths, stalls, or partitions have at least 1 side open to an adjacent public
room so that the area inside is visible to persons in the adjacent public room.
Such areas shall be lighted in a manner that the persons in the area used for
viewing motion pictures or other forms of entertainment are visible from the
adjacent public rooms. No reclining surfaces inside any booths, stalls, or
partitions used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment including, but not limited to, live entertainment shall be
permitted.
   (H)   Sign restrictions. In order to protect children from exposure to lurid
signs and materials and in order to preserve the value of property surrounding
sexually oriented businesses, the sign regulations contained in §
153.105 shall apply to all establishments subject to this chapter, in addition
to all other regulations contained in §§
153.090 through
153.105.
   (I)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
      (2)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a basis for the suspension
or revocation of any license granted hereunder. In the event that the City
Council proposes to revoke or suspend the license, the licensee shall be
notified in writing of the basis for the proposed revocation or suspension. The
Council shall hold a hearing for the purpose of determining whether to revoke
or suspend the license, which hearing shall be within 30 days of the notice.
      (3)   The City Council shall determine whether to suspend or revoke a
license within 30 days after the close of the hearing or within 60 days of the
date of the notice, whichever is sooner, and shall notify the licensee of its
decision within that period.
(Ord. 2008-8-1, passed 8-12-2008)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
      
111.   CIGARETTE SALES
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   GAMBLING
      
114.   [RESERVED]
      
115.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Licenses and permits
   
110.02   Fees
   
110.03   Duration of license
   
110.04   Transfers
   
110.05   Duties of licensee
   
110.06   Suspension or revocation
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a currently valid license or permit for such activity or use.
   (C)   Application. Every application for a license shall be made to the
Clerk on a form provided by the Clerk. It shall be accompanied by payment to
the Clerk of the prescribed fee. If, after investigation, the Clerk is
satisfied that all requirements of law and this code have been met, he or she
shall present the application to the Council for action or, if the license or
permit does not require Council approval, he or she shall issue the license or
permit.
(Prior Code, § 501.01)
§ 110.02 FEES.
   (A)   Fee established. License fees are established in the governing
sections of this chapter and the amounts are as set forth in the city fee
schedule.
   (B)   Prorated fees. License fees shall not be prorated unless otherwise
specified by this code or by law.
    (C)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part
unless otherwise specified by this code or by law.
(Prior Code, § 501.02) (Am. Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003)
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be laid for a calendar year or
the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
(Prior Code, § 501.03)
§ 110.04 TRANSFERS.
   No license issued under this code may be transferred to any other person.
Where a license relates to specified premises, the license shall not be changed
to another location without approval of the Council or other licensing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 501.04)
§ 110.05 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Inspection. He or she shall permit at reasonable times inspections of
his or her business and examination of his or her books and records by
authorized officers or employees.
   (C)   Compliance with law. He or she shall comply with laws, ordinances, and
regulations applicable to the licensed business, activity or property.
   (D)   Display of license. He or she shall display the license or other
insignia given him as evidence of the license in a conspicuous place on the
premises, vehicle, or device to which the license relates. If the license is
not so related, the license shall be carried on the licensee's person whenever
he or she is carrying on the licensed activity.
   (E)   Unlawful disposition. The licensee shall not lend or give to any other
person his or her license or license insignia.
   (F)   Proof of worker's compensation insurance. The licensee shall show a
proof of worker's compensation insurance as required by state law.
(Prior Code, § 501.05)
§ 110.06 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke any
license or permit for violation of any provision of law, ordinance, or
regulation applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property. Except
where mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice and hearing and
except where suspension may be made without a hearing, the holder of the
license or permit shall be granted a hearing upon at least 10 days notice
before revocation or suspension is ordered. The notice shall state the time and
place of the hearing and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 501.07)
CHAPTER 111: CIGARETTE SALES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
111.03   License required
   
111.04   Licensing process
   
111.05   Fees
   
111.06   Basis for denial of license
   
111.07   Prohibited sales
   
111.08   Vending machines
   
111.09   Self-service sales
   
111.10   Responsibility
   
111.11   Compliance checks and inspections
   
111.12   Other illegal acts
   
111.13   Violations and penalties; hearings
   
111.14   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
111.99   Administrative penalties
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the City of Stacy recognizes that many persons under the age of 21
years purchase or otherwise obtain, possess, and use tobacco, tobacco products,
and tobacco-related devices, and such sales, possession, and use are violations
of both state and federal laws, this chapter shall be intended to regulate the
sale, possession, and use of tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco-related
devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect
minors against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco,
tobacco products, and tobacco-related devices, and to further the official
public policy of the State of Minnesota in regard to preventing young people
from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term SHALL means mandatory
and the term MAY means permissive. The following terms shall have the
definitions given to them.
   CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
16 C.F.R. § 1700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was tested in
accordance with the method described in 16 C.F.R. § 1700.20, as in effect on
January 1, 2015.
   CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in M.S. § 297F.01, Subd. 3, as may be amended from time
to time.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco-related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of persons under the age of 21 as authorized by
this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of persons under the
age of 21 who attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related
devices for educational, research, and training purposes as authorized by state
and federal laws. Compliance checks may also be conducted by other units of
government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state, or local
laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco-related
devices.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
product that has been approved or certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale, as a tobacco-cessation product, or for other medical
purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an approved purpose.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered individually packaged.
   LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related device, or electronic delivery device.
   LOOSIES. Commonly used to refer to single or individually packaged cigars or
cigarettes, or any other licensed product that has been removed from its
intended retail packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES does not include
individual cigars with a retail price, after any discounts are applied and
before any sales taxes are imposed, of at least $4 per cigar.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 21 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed-address storefront or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco-related devices are available for sale to the general public. Retail
establishments shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores, tobacco
products shops, convenience stores, gasoline service stations, bars, and
restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other
consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco-related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco-related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any product containing, made, or derived from
tobacco that is intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked,
absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other means,
or any component, part or accessory of a tobacco product including but not
limited to cigarettes; cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug
cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour;
cavendish; plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts;
refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds
and forms of tobacco. TOBACCO does not include any product that has been
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco- cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence product, or for other
medical purposes and is being marketed and sold solely for such an approved
purpose.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICE includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may
or may not contain tobacco.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco-related device.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco-related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.04 LICENSING PROCESS.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco- related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary as noted on the application. Upon receipt of a
completed application, the Clerk’s department shall forward the application to
the Stacy City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting. If
the Clerk’s department determines that an application is incomplete, the Clerk
shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the information
necessary to make the application complete. If the City Council approves the
application a license shall be issued by the Clerk’s department, after payment
in full of the license fee.
   (B)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete
any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If
the City Council approves the license, the Clerk’s department shall issue the
license to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's
right to appeal the decision.
   (C)   License fee; term; date. The fee for a license will be set annually
during the city fee schedule review. This fee shall be used to investigate the
applicant’s application, and to fund compliance checks. If the city issues or
renews a license based upon misrepresentations made in the application, the
city may revoke the license upon discovery of the misrepresentation. All
licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid until April 30 after issue
and shall be renewable for successive 1 year periods to run from May 1 to April
30.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
111.13.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. The transfer of any license to another location or
person is prohibited.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed-location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Vending machine sales prohibited. No person shall sell tobacco
products, electronic delivery devices, or nicotine or lobelia delivery products
from vending machines. This division does not apply to vending machines in
facilities that cannot be entered at any time by persons younger than 21 years
of age.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as a privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license is
a privilege and not does not entitle the license holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
   (K)   Pharmacies ineligible for licensure. No existing license will be
eligible for renewal to any pharmacy, including any retail establishment that
operates or contains an on-site pharmacy, and no pharmacy or retail
establishment that operates an on-site pharmacy will be granted a new license.
   (L)   Smoking prohibited. Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of the
sampling of licensed products, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this chapter.
   (M)   Samples prohibited. No person shall distribute samples of any licensed
product free of charge or at nominal cost.
   (N)   Training. Licensees must ensure that all employees complete a training
program on the legal requirements related to the sale of licensed products and
the possible consequences of license violations. Licensees must maintain
documentation demonstrating their compliance and must provide this
documentation to the city at the time of renewal, or whenever requested to do
so during the license term.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.05 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
$150 established in the city’s fee schedule (§
34.01). This fee shall not be prorated for initial licenses granted after May 1
and prior to April 30.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.06 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license, include, but
aren’t limited to the following:
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years.
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
   (C)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 24 months of the date of
application.
   (D)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information.
   (E)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation, from holding such a license.
   (F)   The business for which the license is requested is a moveable place of
business. Only fixed-location retail establishments are eligible to be
licensed.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years.
      (1)   Age verification. Licensees must verify by means of government-
issued photographic identification that the purchaser is at least 21 years of
age.
       (2)   Signage. Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted prominently and in plain view at all times at each
location where licensed products are offered for sale.
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter.
   (C)   By means of self-service methods where the customer may have access to
those items without having to request the item from the licensee or the
licensee’s employee and where there is not a physical exchange of the licensed
product from the licensee or the licensee’s employee to the customer. All
licensed products must be stored behind the sales counter, in another area not
freely accessible by customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left
open and accessible to the general public.
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
111.02.
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimsonweed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of another wise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this division to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other products subject to this chapter.
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state, or other local law, ordinance, provision, or
other regulation.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.08 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.09 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices by any means
whereby the customer may have access to such items without having to request
the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not
a physical exchange of the items between the licensee or his or her clerk and
the customer. All such items shall either be stored behind a counter or other
area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not
left open and accessible to the general public.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to retail stores which derive at least
90% of their revenue from tobacco and tobacco-related products and which cannot
be entered at any time by persons younger than 21 years of age.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.10 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.11 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by law enforcement or
other authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 17 but less than 21 years, to enter the licensed premises to attempt
to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices. Minors used
for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by designated law
enforcement officers or other designated city personnel. Minors used for
compliance checks shall not be guilty of the unlawful purchase or attempted
purchase, nor the unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-
related devices when such items are obtained or attempted to be obtained as a
part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt
to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age, and all minors
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any
identification, if any exists, for which he or she is asked. Nothing in this
section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws
for educational, research, or training purposes, or required for the
enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.12 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or
otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device to
any minor.
   (B)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to have in his
or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device. This
division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to smoke, chew,
sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related
device.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to purchase or
attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product, or
tobacco-related device, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of a minor. It
shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a
minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco-related device. This division shall not apply to minors
lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   It shall be violation of this chapter for any minor to attempt to
disguise his or her true age by the use of a false form of identification,
whether the identification is that of another person or one on which the age of
the person has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than
the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.13 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation and how and where a hearing may be
requested, including a contact address and phone number.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within 10 business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the City Clerk’s department. Failure to properly request a hearing within 10
business days of the issuance of the citation will terminate the person’s right
to a hearing.
      (2)   The Clerk’s department will set the time and place for the hearing.
Written notice of the hearing time and place will be mailed or delivered to the
accused violator at least 10 business days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The City Council will designate a hearing officer.
The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within
10 business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer’s reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the city and the
accused violator by in- person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded, and a copy provided to
the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as
soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final, subject to
an appeal as described in division (B)(6) of this section.
      (5)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the city’s
actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 must be paid
by the person requesting the hearing.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must
be filed in Chisago County District Court within 10 business days of the date
of the decision.
      (7)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
Chisago County or the city from pursuing misdemeanor prosecution for any
alleged violation of this chapter. If the county elects to seek misdemeanor
prosecution, no administrative penalty shall be imposed.
      (8)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.14 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco-related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
§ 111.99 ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Licenses. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, will be subject to an administrative
penalty as follows:
      (1)   First violation. The City Council may impose an administrative fine
not to exceed $250 and/or license suspension for a period not to exceed 10
days.
      (2)   Second violation within a 24-month period. The City Council may
impose an administrative fine not to exceed $500 and/or license suspension for
a period not to exceed 20 days.
      (3)   Third violation within a 24-month period. The City Council may
impose an administrative fine not to exceed $750 and/or a license suspension
for a period not to exceed 30 days.
      (4)   Fourth violation within a 24-month period. The City Council may
impose an administrative fine not to exceed $1,000 and/or a 1-year license
suspension and/or revocation.
   (B)   Other individuals. Any person who sells any tobacco product to someone
under 21 is subject to an administrative penalty; any minor who attempts to
purchase a tobacco product is subject to an administrative penalty. The City
Council may impose administrative penalties as follows:
      (1)   First violation. The City Council may impose a civil fine not to
exceed $50.
      (2)   Second violation within 24 months. The City Council may impose a
civil fine not to exceed $100.
      (3)   Third violation within 36 months. The City Council may impose a
civil fine not to exceed $1,000.
   (C)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related
devices, shall be dealt with in the juvenile court system, which may include
the juvenile diversion program.
   (D)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of this chapter
by a person 21 years of age or older.
(Ord. 2024-3-3, passed 3-12-2024)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
112.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.23   License fees; pro rata
   
112.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Description of premises
   
112.27   Applications for renewal
   
112.28   Transfer of license
   
112.29   Investigation
   
112.30   Hearing and issuance
   
112.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.32   Conditions of license
   
112.33   Hours and days of sale
   
112.34   Minors on premises
   
112.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
112.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
112.50   Application of this subchapter
   
112.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
112.52   Location
   
112.53   Operation
   
112.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
112.55   Issuance of other licenses
 
   
112.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this chapter is adopted.
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BREW PUB. A brewer who also holds 1 or more retail on-sale licenses and who
manufactures fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year, at any 1
licensed premises, the entire production of which is solely for consumption on
tap on any licensed premises owned by the brewer, or for off-sale from those
licensed premises as permitted in Minnesota State Statute.
   BREWERY. A location where malt liquor is produced.
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes liquor and 3.2 percent malt
liquor.
   MICRO DISTILLERY. A distillery located within the city producing premium
distilled spirits in total quantity not to exceed 40,000 proof gallons per
calendar year.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined in this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3d, as it may be amended from time to time,
and meet the definition of either a “category 2 establishment,” or “category 3
establishment” as defined in M.S § 157.16 subd. 3d, as it may be amended from
time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat
treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and
served, shall not be considered a restaurant for purposes of this chapter
unless it meets the definitions of “category 2 establishment” or “category 3
establishment.”
(Am. Ord. 2021-9-4, passed 9-14-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-5-11, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
112.99(B).
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   Except as provided in this section, no person shall consume liquor or 3.2
percent malt liquor in a public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking
lot or alley, or in any public place other than on the premises of an
establishment licensed under this chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if
one exists in the city, or where the consumption and display of liquor is
lawfully permitted.
(Ord. 2009-8-1, passed 8-25-2009)
Penalty, see § 112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
112.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized
to issue only those licenses specified in §
112.55.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental
sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least 3 years.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at1 time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities, which meet the criteria
in M.S. § 340A.4011, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee
for an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23 shall not exceed 1/2 of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license, and whose gross receipts are at
least 60% attributable to the sale of food, is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Am. Ord. 2006-3-3, passed 3-28-2006; Am. Ord. 2021-9-4, passed 9-14-2021)
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full, unless approved by the
Council, at the time the application is filed with the city. If the application
is denied, the license fee shall be returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 112.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
   (C)   Temporary amendment of licensed liquor premises. A holder of an on-
sale liquor license shall make application to the city for a temporary
amendment of the licensed premises, at least 30 days in advance, of any event
at which the licensee proposes to amend the licensed premises to provide for
liquor service in a compact and contiguous area not included in the original
license application. Included in that application, the licensee must submit a
site plan of the expansion area from which liquor is to be dispensed and
consumed, the maximum anticipated number of guests attending the event and the
total occupancy load for the expansion area. The application must include
evidence of insurance for the expansion area and payment of all temporary
amendment processing fees set forth by the City Council. The City Council shall
consider all such amendments to the licensed premises using the following
criteria:
      (1)   The expansion area must be immediately adjacent to the licensed
premises;
      (2)   The expansion area will be used in connection with a special event
no longer than 7 days in duration;
      (3)   No more than 4 temporary amendments will be allowed per year per
licensee;
      (4)   Adequate measures will be taken to control access to the expansion
area, to ensure that alcoholic beverages will not be furnished in violation of
state law or this code to persons under the age of 21 years or to obviously
intoxicated persons, or carried outside of the licensed premises;
      (5)   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure that there will not be a
violation of the city's noise ordinance;
      (6)   The use of the expansion area may decrease available parking below
that required by the zoning ordinance for the licensed premises;
      (7)   The use of the expansion area will not unreasonably impede traffic
circulation;
      (8)   The issuance of the temporary amendment will not be adverse to the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (D)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor and temporary 3.2% malt liquor
licenses. A club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization shall make
application to the city for a temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor or
temporary 3.2% malt liquor license, at least 30 days in advance of any event at
which the licensee proposes to provide for alcohol sale and consumption.
Included in that application, the licensee must submit a site plan of the
premises area from which liquor is to be dispensed and consumed, the maximum
anticipated number of guests attending the event and the total occupancy load
for the premises area. The application must include evidence of insurance for
the premises area and payment of all fees set forth by the City Council. The
City Council shall consider all such applications using the following criteria:
      (1)   The license will be used in connection with a special event no
longer than 7 days in duration;
      (2)   No more than 4 temporary licenses will be allowed per year per
licensee;
      (3)   Adequate measures will be taken to control access to the premises
area, to ensure that alcoholic beverages will not be furnished in violation of
state law or this code to persons under the age of 21 years or to obviously
intoxicated persons, or carried outside of the premises area;
      (4)   Adequate measures will be taken to ensure that there will not be a
violation of the city's noise ordinance;
      (5)   The use of the premises area will not unreasonably impede traffic
circulation;
      (6)   The licensee has obtained adequate liquor liability insurance for
the premises area; and
      (7)   The issuance of the temporary license will not be adverse to the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Am. Ord. 2017-8-4, passed 8-8-2017) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk, except in the case of a temporary
amendment for the purpose of an event that lasts no more than 7 days.
(Am. Ord. 2017-7-2, passed 7-11-2017)
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 112.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial  investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 112.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 112.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than 1 license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any 1 person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Am. Ord. 2021-9-4, passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any 1 of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (B)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (C)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (D)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Am. Ord. 2021-9-4, passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   No sale of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor shall occur
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., except as set forth herein.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any table, bar,
stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes after
the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Am. Ord. 2006-12-3, passed 12-12-2006; Am. Ord. 2019-12-1, passed 12-10-2019)
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent
malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any public place of business unless it has a
license to sell on-sale or a permit from the Commissioner of Public Safety
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414.
(Am. Ord. 2021-9-4, passed 9-14-2021) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, at least 1 day
suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 3-year period, at least 3
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any 3-year period, at least 7
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any 3-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 112.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 112.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of §§
112.50 through
112.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 112.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in §
112.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.52 LOCATION. 
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 112.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council's direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees, or
direct their appointment to the manager as may be required and shall fix their
compensation. All employees, including the Manager, shall hold their positions
at the pleasure of the Council. No person under the age of 18 shall be employed
in the store. The Council may require the employees to furnish surety bonds
conditioned for the faithful discharge of their duties in a sum as specified by
the Council. The premium on the bond may be paid by the city or the employees,
as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in §
112.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see § 112.99
§ 112.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 112.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subd. 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses. The Council may
issue 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in
this chapter.
§ 112.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000.
   (C)   The term "violation" as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding 3-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 113: GAMBLING
Section
   
113.01   Lawful gambling permitted
   
113.02   State license required
   
113.03   Approval of premises permit
   
113.04   Restrictions on availability of premises permits
§ 113.01 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling, as defined in M.S. § 349.12, subd. 24, as amended from time
to time, is permitted in the city, subject to the conditions established in
this code.
(Ord. 98, passed 9-10-1991)
§ 113.02 STATE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All organizations conducting lawful gambling within the city must be
licensed by the Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
(Ord. 98, passed 9-10-1991)
§ 113.03 APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMIT.
   Any organization applying to the Minnesota Gambling Control Board for a
premises permit, or a renewal of a premises permit, shall file a copy of such
application with the city. Within 60 days of receipt of said application, the
City Council shall approve or deny the application for a premises permit by
Council resolution. Failure to receive a majority affirmative vote of the City
Council shall constitute a denial of the application.
(Ord. 98, passed 9-10-1991)
§ 113.04 RESTRICTIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   No more than 3 premises permits may be issued and outstanding at any time.
Premises permits may not be approved or renewed for organizations which do not
expend 50% or more of their expenditures for lawful purposes on lawful purposes
conducted or located within Stacy's trade area. Stacy's trade area shall be
defined as the City of Stacy and the Town of Lent.
(Ord. 98, passed 9-10-1991)
CHAPTER 114: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Exceptions to definitions
   
115.04   Licensing; exemptions
   
115.05   License ineligibility
   
115.06   License suspension and revocation
   
115.07   License transferability
   
115.08   Registration
   
115.09   Prohibited activities
   
115.10   Exclusion by placard
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that in some cases unscrupulous individuals have posed or may
pose as legitimate peddlers and solicitors for the purpose of harassment,
nuisance, theft, and other unlawful acts committed against residents of the
city. The purpose of this chapter is to impose reasonable regulations and
restrictions on peddlers and solicitors so as to prevent illegitimate
individuals who may be engaged in unlawful activities from posing as legitimate
peddlers and solicitors. This chapter is not intended to interfere with
legitimated business activities, whether local or interstate.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FARMERS MARKET. The tract of city-owned land defined as the parking lot for
Rick Doyle Memorial Field, is hereby designated and established as the city
market for the barter and sale of meat, fruit, vegetables, garden truck and
other products of the farm, garden, greenhouse, apiary or of the  forest, and
other approved products, subject to all the regulations and provisions of this
chapter, to all other laws and ordinances relative thereto, and to such other
rules and regulations governing the same that may be promulgated and posted by
the city.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purpose of this chapter, the term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCATE shall fall under the term solicitor and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street (ice cream truck), or any other type of place-to-
place movement, for the purpose of offering for sale, displaying for exposing
for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale,
the goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personnel property that the
person is carrying or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this chapter, the
term PEDDLER shall have the same common meaning as the term HAWKER. The term
PEDDLER shall not apply to any persons who may sell or peddle the products of
farm or garden occupied and cultivated by themselves or who sells at a stand at
the Farmers Market.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.
   PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER. Any person, including a corporation or other
entity, who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or other services for
a religious, political, social, or other charitable organization.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day in which the city hall is normally open for
the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law shall
not be considered REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
chapter, the term SOLICITOR shall have the same meaning as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle (food truck), trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty
store front for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or
other personal property and who does not remain in any one location for more
than 14 consecutive days.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013; Am. Ord.
2021-1-4, passed 1-12-2021)
§ 115.03 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and
TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to:
      (1)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Person engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to
register as a solicitor under §
115.04;
      (2)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler;
      (3)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk;
      (4)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products
to the customers on his or her established delivery route;
      (5)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large;
      (6)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales, or estate sales;
      (7)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market;
      (8)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer;
      (9)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale; and
      (10)   Any person selling a product produced and sold on seller's
property in compliance with the zoning code and home business provisions of the
City Code.
   (B)   Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
chapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory
provision or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 115.04 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as may be required by
M.S. Ch. 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler
or a transient merchant without first obtaining a city license. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are required to register with the city pursuant to §
115.07.
   (C)   Application. An application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications
shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business, if any
exists;
      (8)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
If the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or she
will be conducting business within the city, with a maximum of 14 consecutive
days;
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
with the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than minor
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any required county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk will, within 2 regular business days, determine if the
application is complete. An application will be considered complete if all
required information is provided. If the City Clerk determines that the
application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the applicant of the
required, necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including background
checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the application.
Within 10 regular business days of receiving a complete application, the City
Clerk must issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the license
application under §
115.05, in which case the Clerk must deny the request for a city peddler or
transient merchant license. If the City Clerk denies the license application,
the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for
denial, and the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20
days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City
Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of
the request for a hearing. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari. Sale of products of a farm or garden raised or
produced within the city or within 20 miles of the boundary of the city shall
not require a permit, but shall require completion of a registration form with
the city by the person who raised or produced the product prior to such sale at
the Farmers Market. The registration shall include the person's name and
address, and shall certify that the product was raised or produced within the
geographical area described in this division.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issuance. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   Professional fundraisers not exempt. A professional fundraiser working
on behalf of an otherwise exempt group or person shall not be exempt from the
licensing requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on property located in the city and owned by the
producer, or on any private property in the city or within 20 miles of the
boundaries of the city, or sold in the Farmers Market.
      (2)   No license shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or any other type
of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights, such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion, and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person’s exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity.
      (3)   Any person participating in an organized event; the event organizer
is required to provide data to the city regarding the vendor; at least seven
days prior to the event, including - name, type of business, and contact
information; events held on public property which are not an official organized
event require a permit from the city;
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013; Am. Ord.
2021-1-4, passed 1-12-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-3-1, passed 3-9-2021) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.05 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application;
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (E)   A conviction with the past 5 years of the date of application for any
violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person’s ability to conduct the
business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (F)   The revocation with the past 5 years of any license issued to an
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and
   (G)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than 3 complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general’s
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding 12 months, or 3 complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding 5 years.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 115.06 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
115.05;
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
115.08; and
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within 10 days following
the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension or
revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request for the public hearing. Within 3 regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, at the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 115.07 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 115.08 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
115.04 shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the City Clerk shall issue to the registrant a certificate
of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration
shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 115.09 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 8:00 a.m. or later than 1/2 hour prior to
sunset as adopted by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources each year;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license, or registration, and
identification when requested;
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person;
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave; or
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013) Penalty,
see §
115.99
§ 115.10 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least 4 inches long;
      (2)   At least 4 inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size; and
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants”,
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited”, or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013) Penalty,
see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
a guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2010-7-2, passed 7-13-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Reserved
   
130.02   Curfew for minors
   
130.03   Cannabis use prohibited on certain public property
§ 130.01 RESERVED.
§ 130.02 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for 4 primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT, OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 12:00 midnightand 5:00a.m. the following day, official
city time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by school
authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly to or from an
official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic
organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city's designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   A law enforcement officer must look into whether a minor has an
affirmative defense before making an arrest.
(Prior Code, § 804.01 - 804.08) (Am. Ord. 114, passed 7-9-1996; Am. Ord. 2022-
5-10, passed 5-10-2022)  
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 CANNABIS USE PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply. Words used in the present tense shall include the
future tense, words in singular number shall include the plural, and words in
the plural shall include the singular.
      CANNABIS FLOWER. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 16, as may be amended
from time to time.
      CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 18, as may be
amended from time to time.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 20, as may be
amended from time to time.
      EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 31, as may be
amended from time to time.
      ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing cannabis flower or
cannabis product, whether natural or synthetic, intended for human consumption
through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY
DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices manufactured, marketed or sold
as electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars, electronic pipe, vape pens, modes,
tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. Electronic
delivery devices includes any component part of a product whether or not
marketed or sold separately. Electronic delivery device excludes, drugs,
devices, or combination products, as those terms are defined in the Federal
Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for sale by the United States
Food and Drug Administration.
      HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 37, as
may be amended from time to time.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined in M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50, as may
be amended from time to time.
      SMOKE. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made, or derived from cannabis flower or cannabis product, whether natural or
synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. Smoke includes carrying or use of
an activated electronic delivery device.
   (B)   Prohibition. It is unlawful to smoke or use cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower- potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products on a
city-owned park, ball field, or sport field property.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2024-7-2, passed 7-9-2024)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
      
153.   ZONING CODE
      
154.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
155.   FIRE CODE
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Building Code
   
150.02   Water Well Construction Code
   
150.03   (Reserved)
   
150.04   Demolition and removal of structures
   
150.05   Proof that all utility easements have been obtained
   
150.06   Landscape requirement after completion of structure
   
150.07   Electrical Code
   
150.08   (Reserved)
   
150.09   Odor and corrosion control measures; financial security
Uniform Street Names and Numbers
   
150.20   Purpose
   
150.21   Revocation of present address system
   
150.22   Uniform Numbering System
   
150.23   Display of numbers
   
150.24   Administration
   
150.25   Violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Application, administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the territorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, subd. 2(d), as
amended from time to time. The code enforcement agency of this municipality is
called the City of Stacy. This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota
Certified Building Official designated by this city to administer the code
pursuant to M.S. § 326B.133 as amended from time to time. The Minnesota State
Building Code shall govern permit applications except that in addition each
application shall describe the land by certified survey on which the proposed
work is to be done by lot, block, tract and house and street address or similar
description that will readily identify and definitely locate the proposed
building or work.
      (2)   M.S. §§ 326B.41 to 326B.49 and Minn. Rules 4714 (“Plumbing Code”)
are hereby incorporated into this section as if fully set forth herein. All
such codes incorporated herein by reference are adopted pursuant to M.S. §
471.62.
      (3)   The city hereby provides for plumbing permits, approval of plumbing
plans and specifications, and inspections of plumbing pursuant to M.S. §
326B.44.
      (4)   Prior to installation of a system of plumbing other than for a
single-family dwelling with independent plumbing service, complete plumbing
plans and specifications, together with any additional information that the
Building Official may require, shall be submitted in duplicate and approved by
the Building Official. No construction shall proceed except in accordance with
the approved plans. Any alteration or extension of any existing plumbing system
shall be subject to the same requirements.
      (5)   Per M.S. § 326B.43, subd. 2(n), the plumbing plans and
specifications for the following types of projects shall be submitted to the
state for review:
         (a)   State-licensed facilities as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd.
13;
         (b)   Public buildings as defined in M.S. § 326B.103, subd. 11;
         (c)   Projects of a special nature for which department review is
requested by either the municipality or the state.
      (6)   A plumbing system installation, as described herein, shall be
subject to inspection as required by Minn. Rules 1300.0215.
   (B)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in Minn. Rules Ch. 1300, as amended from time to time.
      (2)   Permit and plan review fees shall be assessed for work governed by
this code and are set forth in the city fee schedule. In addition, a surcharge
fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in
accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as amended from time to time.
      (3)   Expiration of building permit:
         (a)   Except as set forth in this subsection below, every permit
issued by the building official under the provisions of this chapter shall
expire by limitation and become null and void if the building of work
authorized by such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of
such permit or if the building or work authorized by such permit is suspended
or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days.
Before such work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained so to
do, and the fee therefor shall be one-half the amount required for a new permit
for such work, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the
original plans and specifications for such work; and provided further, that
such suspension or abandonment has not exceeded 1 year. The building official
may extend the time for commencement and completion for 1 year upon written
request of the permittee establishing that circumstances beyond the control of
the permittee will prevent the permittee from commencing work for which the
permit was issued within 180 days of the date of issuance.
         (b)   Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an
extension of the time within which he or she may commence work under that
permit when the permittee is unable to commence work within the time required
by this section for good and satisfactory reasons. The building official may
extend the time for action by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days
upon written request by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond the
control of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. No permit
shall be extended more than once.
         (c)   Moreover, all work commenced pursuant to the issuance of a
building permit by the building official for construction, alteration, repair
or remodeling of the exterior or interior portion of any dwelling or building,
including an attached or detached garage, must be completed within 1 year from
the date of issuance of the building permit or within 1 year from the effective
date of this chapter, whichever is later. The building official may extend the
time for completion 1 additional year from original date of required completion
upon written request of the permittee establishing that circumstances beyond
the control of the permittee prevented completion of the work for which the
building permit was authorized.
(Prior Code, §§ 1101.01 - 1101.03) (Am. Ord. 108, passed 5-18-1995; Am. Ord.
2003-5-6, passed 6-10-2003; Am. Ord. 2010-12-2, passed 12-14-2010; Am. Ord.
2022-3-2, passed 3-9-2022)
§ 150.02 WATER WELL CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   (A)   Water Well Construction Code. The Water Well Construction Code of the
Minnesota Department of Health, being Minn. Rules, Ch. 4725, is adopted and
incorporated by reference as a regulation of the city, and all of the
provisions therein set forth shall be as much a part of this section as if they
had been set out in full herein.
(Prior Code, § 1102.01)
   (B)   Enforcement. The Minnesota State Building Code shall be enforced in
the city by such city official, Chisago County official, or other qualified
individual as shall be designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1102.03) (Am. Ord. 2015-7-1, passed 7-14-2015)
§ 150.03 (RESERVED).
§ 150.04 DEMOLITION AND REMOVAL OF STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ENFORCING OFFICER. The City Clerk, County Building Inspector, City
Building Inspector, employee of the County Building and Zoning Department, or
any other person designated by the Council to inspect buildings or issue
building permits within the city.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected pursuant to a building permit,
or which would require a building permit if constructed under current city
ordinances. This shall include signs.
(Prior Code, § 1104.01)
   (B)   Demolition and removal requirements. The enforcing officer shall not
issue a building permit for any structure within the city until the applicant
repairs, razes, demolishes or properly disposes of all other structures on the
same lot or adjacent lots owned by the applicant. If repair or removal of other
structures is deemed necessary by the enforcing officer, he or she shall
provide a written list of repairs and demolition and disposal requirements to
the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 1104.02)
   (C)   Applicant's right to appeal. The applicant may appeal the requirements
of the enforcing officer to the Planning Commission sitting as the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals and the Council in accordance with the procedures set
forth in §
153.187.
(Prior Code, § 1104.03) (Ord. 92, passed 1-12-1991)
§ 150.05 PROOF THAT ALL UTILITY EASEMENTS HAVE BEEN OBTAINED.
   Every applicant for a building permit must submit proof satisfactory to the
City Attorney that all easements necessary for utilities, ingress, and egress
to the subject property have been obtained. No building permits or utility
hook-ups will be allowed without such proof or a written statement from the
City Attorney that no such easements are necessary.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01) (Ord. 93, passed 1-12-1991)
§ 150.06 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENT AFTER COMPLETION OF STRUCTURE.
   (A)   Landscape completion. Any person granted a building permit by the
Council shall complete basic landscaping of the land on which the structure is
located within 30 days after completing the structure for which the permit is
issued. BASIC LANDSCAPING means grading the subject lot or plat of land to 30
days after completing the structure for which the permit is issued. BASIC
LANDSCAPING means grading the subject lot or plat of land to final grade and
installing sodding or grass seed.
(Prior Code, § 1106.01)
   (B)   Variance. Any person unable to comply with the requirements of
division (A) of this section may apply for a variance which will be considered
in the same manner as a zoning variance pursuant to §
153.191.
(Prior Code, § 1106.02)
§ 150.07 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Purpose.  the purpose of this section is to establish an electrical
inspections program in the City of Stacy that is administered and enforced by
the city.
   (B)   Authority to inspect. The city hereby provides for the inspection of
all electrical installations, pursuant to § M.S. 326B.36, subd. 6.
   (C)   Adopted by reference. The Minnesota Electrical Act, as adopted by the
Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. Chapter 326B, §§ 326B.32 to
326B.399. The Minnesota Electrical Act is hereby incorporated into this section
as fully set out herein. The Minnesota State Building Code incorporates by
reference the National Electrical Code pursuant to Minn. Rules 1315.0020. All
such codes incorporated herein by reference constitute the electrical code of
the city.
   (D)   Compliance. All electrical installations shall comply with the
requirements of the electrical code of the city and this section.
   (E)   Permits and fees.  The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in M.S. § 326B.37. Any inspection or handling fees will
be payable to the city.
   (F)   Notice and appeal. All notices of violations and orders issued under
this section shall be in conformance with M.S. § 326B.36, subd. 4.
   (G)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the Minnesota Electrical Act
is a misdemeanor (M.S. § 326B.082, subd. 16).
   (H)   Sunset. This section shall be revoked without further action of the
City Council once the Department of Labor and Industry is funded for the 2011
fiscal year by legislative enactment of a state budget.
(Ord. 2011-7-2, passed 7-12-2011)
§ 150.08 (RESERVED).
§ 150.09 ODOR AND CORROSION CONTROL MEASURES; FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   All building permits issued under this chapter shall comply with the
sanitary sewer odor and corrosion control regulations as set forth in §
52.61 of this city code.
(Ord. 2012-6-1, passed 6-12-2012)
UNIFORM STREET NAMES AND NUMBERS
§ 150.20 PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of providing for the health, safety, and general welfare of
the residents, including the aiding of delivery of efficient responses in
emergency situations, the county’s uniform system of naming streets and
numbering properties and principal buildings is hereby adopted for use in the
city. Where discretion in naming exists within the county’s system, the City
Council shall have the final authority to determine the street name. Any
petition to rename an existing street shall require action by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 303.01)
§ 150.21 REVOCATION OF PRESENT ADDRESS SYSTEM.
   All the present names of the streets, avenues and public ways, within the
corporate limits of the city, as heretofore used and the designations thereof
formerly applied to said streets, avenues, and public ways, and whether the
same have been fixed by dedication of plats as the same appear on file in the
office of the County Recorder of Chisago County, or by common consent or
otherwise, are hereby revoked, set aside, and extinguished.
(Prior Code, § 303.02)
§ 150.22 UNIFORM NUMBERING SYSTEM.
   (A)   All properties or principal buildings within the city shall hereafter
be identified by reference to the Uniform Numbering System adopted herein.
   (B)   All existing numbers of properties or principal buildings not now in
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter shall be changed to conform
to the system herein and adopted within 90 days from the date of the
publication of this subchapter. Each principal building shall bear the number
assigned to the frontage on which the front entrance is located. In case a
principal building is occupied by more than 1 business or family dwelling unit,
each separate front entrance of such building shall bear a separate number.
(Prior Code, § 303.04)
§ 150.23 DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   It shall be the duty of the property owner of every house, industrial,
commercial, or other building to have proper house or building numbers, either
by affixing such number in metal, glass, plastic, or other durable material;
the numbers shall be not less than 3 inches in height, in a contrasting color
to the building; the numbers shall either be lighted or made of some reflective
material and so placed to be easily seen from the street, or placed on the
mailbox if the mailbox be on the street of the property and the house cannot be
seen from the street. The numbers shall be so placed within 90 days from the
date of the publication of the ordinance set forth in this subchapter. All
auxiliary buildings within a unit having an assigned number, such as garages,
barns, and buildings of like nature, are not affected by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 303.05)
§ 150.24 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Clerk or Building Inspector shall be responsible for maintaining the
numbering system and shall keep a record of all numbers assigned under this
subchapter. The county assigns additional numbers in accordance with the
official numbering system whenever a property has been subdivided, or a new
front entrance opened. The property owner shall be responsible for obtaining
suitable numbers for property identification pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 303.04)
§ 150.25 VIOLATION.
   Whoever shall fail to comply with the provisions of this subchapter, or
whoever shall affix to or display upon any house or building any such numbers
other than those assigned to it, shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 303.05)
CHAPTER 151: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Scope
   
151.04   Jurisdiction
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Compliance
   
151.07   Required approvals of subdivision plats
   
151.08   Conflict
   
151.09   Exceptions
   
151.10   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   
151.11   Subdivisions without central water and sewer
   
151.12   Exemptions
   
151.13   Installation of public sewer and water systems
   
151.14   Variances and amendments
   
151.15   Fees
   
151.16   Enforcement
Subdivision Review
   
151.30   Preliminary plat
   
151.31   Final plats
   
151.32   Data requirements for preliminary plat
   
151.33   Data requirements for final plat
Plat Design Standards
   
151.45   Streets and alleys
   
151.46   Easements
   
151.47   Blocks
   
151.48   Lots
   
151.49   Soil erosion and steep slopes
   
151.50   Drainage
   
151.51   Wetland, shoreland, and flood plain areas
   
151.52   Sidewalks
Public Use of Dedication or Contribution
   
151.65   General
Required Improvements
   
151.80   General
   
151.81   Improvements
   
151.82   Subdivision agreement
   
151.83   Financing requirement improvements
   
151.84   Odor and corrosion control measures; financial security
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Regulations of the City
Stacy” and will be referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. § 462.358, as amended from time
to time, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To provide for the orderly, economic and safe development of land and
urban services and facilities;
   (B)   To promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare of
the residents of the city;
   (C)   To assure equitable handling of all subdivision plats by providing
uniform procedures.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter relate to any division or tract of land into
1 or more parcels by platting, replatting, conveyance, registered land survey,
or other means.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.04 JURISDICTION.
   These regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply to
the area within the corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of these definitions, the word “shall” is mandatory;
words used in the present tense shall include the future; and the singular
number shall include the plural, and the plural the singular.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A public vehicular way which affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property and which is not intended for general
traffic circulation.
      BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision which is entirely bounded by
streets or by street, railroad right-of-way, waterway or exterior boundary of
the subdivision.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line
and the property line.
      BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a street between which line and
the nearest street right-of-way line no building may be erected or placed.
      COUNCIL or COUNTY BOARD. The governing body of the city or county.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision development planned and constructed so
as to group housing units into a relatively tight pattern while providing a
unified network of open space and esthetically pleasing areas and meeting the
overall density regulations of this chapter and the zoning ordinance.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The comprehensive plan prepared and adopted by the
city or county indicating the general locations recommended for major land
uses, streets, parks, public buildings and other public improvements.
      CROSS WALK or PEDESTRIAN WAY. A publically owned right-of-way which
crosses a block and furnishes pedestrian access to adjacent streets or
properties.
      DESIGN STANDARDS. Specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other things
the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-way,
blocks, easements and lots.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner to the use of a strip of land by
the public, a corporation, or persons for specific purposes as the construction
of utilities, drainageways and roadways.
      ENGINEER. The city or county engineer or a duly authorized consulting
engineer.
      FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's
plan of subdivision will be submitted to the County Recorder's office. The plat
must conform to these subdivision regulations and all appropriate state laws.
      GRADE, PERCENTAGE OF. The rise or fall of a street in feet and tenths of
a foot for each 100 feet of horizontal distance measured at the center line of
the street.
      GROWTH MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. The goals, policies, programs, ordinances, and
regulations used to guide the city's growth and development.
      LOT. The smallest unit of a subdivision individually numbered or
designated on the plat for purposes of description, recording, conveyance,
development and taxation.
      LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise
legally described, as of the effective date of the ordinance set forth in this
chapter, or approved by the city as a lot subsequent to such date, and which is
occupied by or intended for occupancy by 1 principal building or principal use,
together with any accessory buildings or such open spaces as required by this
chapter and having its principal frontage on a street or a proposed street
approved by the Council.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the street right-of-way
line and the opposite rear line of the lot measured in the general direction of
the side lot lines.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on 2 parallel or
approximately parallel
streets.
      LOT WIDTH. The mean horizontal distance between the side property lines
of a lot as measured at the building line.
      OWNER. Person(s), partnership(s), firm(s), association(s), corporation
(s), or combination thereof.
      PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS. Public land and open spaces dedicated or reserved
for recreational purposes.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. Public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A zoning designation regulated under §
153.055 allowing a tract of land to be planned and developed as a unit rather
than an aggregate of houses or other structures on individual lots.
      PLAT. A map or drawing indicating the subdivisions or resubdivision of
land into lots and blocks intended to be filed for record.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary plat map, drawing or chart indicating
the proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning
Commission and the Council for their consideration as to its compliance with
the growth management goals, policies and these regulations, along with
required supporting data.
      PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land dedicated and publicly owned for use as a street,
alley or crosswalk.
      STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue or boulevard.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. A feeder street which provides connection primarily
between arterial streets or arterial streets and minor streets. COLLECTOR
STREETS include the principal entrance streets of a residential development and
the principal streets for circulation within such development.
      STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A comparatively short minor street having 1 end open
to traffic and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      STREET, MAJOR or ARTERIAL. A street of considerable continuity, which is
used primarily for heavy through traffic between major traffic generation
areas.
      STREET MARGINAL ACCESS. A minor street which is parallel and adjacent to
a highway or an arterial street and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      STREET, MINOR or LOCAL. A street which serves primarily as access to
abutting properties and is not intended to carry through traffic.
      STREET WIDTH. The street right-of-way width, measured at right angles to
the center line of the street.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust or legal entity having sufficient interest in the land
sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the
same under this chapter.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a lot, tract or parcel of land into 1 or
more lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose of transferring ownership or
building development, or if a new street is involved, any division or
development of a parcel of land. The term shall include resubdivision of land.
      TANGENT. A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of where it
intersects a curve.
      VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street center line located
between lines of different percentage of grade.
(Prior Code, § 1001.02) (Am. Ord. 2015-3-2, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 151.06 COMPLIANCE.
   After the effective date of these regulations, no lot in a subdivision shall
be sold, no permit shall be issued to alter or erect any building upon land in
a subdivision, and no building shall be erected in a subdivision unless a
subdivision plat has been approved and recorded and until the improvements
required by the Council relative to subdivision have been constructed or
arranged for as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.07 REQUIRED APPROVALS OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall have validity, it shall have been approved by the
Planning Commission and the Council and recorded in the Chicago County
Recorder's office.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.08 CONFLICT.
   It is not intended by this chapter to annul or interfere with any official
regulations or ordinances of the city; provided, however, that when there is a
difference between minimum standards or dimensions herein and those contained
in other official regulations or ordinances of the city, the highest standards
shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.09 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   When requesting a subdivision, if either of the 2 following conditions
exist, the Zoning Administrator or Clerk shall bring the request to the
attention of the Planning Commission, whereupon they shall review the request
and may recommend exemption of the subdivision from complying with any
procedural requirements of this chapter deemed inappropriate for adequate
review of subdivision requests.
      (1)   In any case in which compliance with §
151.10 will create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply does not
interfere with the intent of this chapter, provided that such conveyance does
not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-way and the newly created
parcel will not cause the other remaining portion of the property to be in
violation of this chapter or the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Where written justification is submitted by an applicant which
clearly indicates that the intent of this chapter can be satisfied without
enforcing all of the procedural requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
Council by resolution may exempt the conveyance and the conveyance may then be
filed or recorded.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.10 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   No conveyance of 1 or more parcels in which the land is described by metes
and bounds or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey shall be
recorded if the parcels are less than either 5 acres or less in area or 300
feet in width, unless such parcel was a separate parcel of record or was the
subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior to the effective
date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.11 SUBDIVISIONS WITHOUT CENTRAL WATER AND SEWER.
   In subdivisions where central water and/or sewer service are not presently
available, the Planning Commission may recommend and the Council may require
that the lots in the subdivision be in accordance with the minimum lot area and
lot width requirements of the zoning regulation and that the subdivider convey
2 or more lots for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development
of sufficient size to safely accommodate a private well and/or disposal system
in accordance with applicable state law and regulations and further that any
such building development be confined to one of the multiple lots conveyed. At
such time as central water and/or sewer service becomes available, and upon
connection of the existing building development to the same, the undeveloped
lots may be conveyed to other persons and building development may be permitted
on the lots.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.12 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following conveyances shall be exempt from the provisions of this
chapter and shall not constitute a subdivision:
   (A)   The parcel was a separate lot of record prior to the effective date of
this chapter;
   (B)   The parcel was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered
into prior to the effective date of this chapter;
   (C)   The parcel is described by metes and bounds, is not less than 10 acres
in area and 300 feet in width, does not result in the division of the parcel
into 2 or more parcels, any 1 of which is less than 5 acres in area or 300 feet
in width, and does not necessitate the dedication of a public right-of-way;
   (D)   The parcel relates to a division of a lot which is a part of a
recorded plat where the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to
an abutting lot and will not cause the other remaining portion of the lot to be
in violation of this chapter or the zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 151.13 INSTALLATION OF PUBLIC SEWER AND WATER SYSTEMS.
   It is the policy of the city to require that public sewer and water systems
be installed and made available to all lots within subdivisions. The Council
may make exception to this policy upon demonstration by the subdivider, to the
satisfaction of the Council in its sole discretion, that the installation of
public sewer and/or water to each such lot in a subdivision is not feasible, in
which case such lots shall meet the minimum lot area requirements, and all
other applicable requirements, of the city code and such reasonable conditions
as shall be imposed by the Council.
(Ord. 104, passed 10-12-1993)
§ 151.14 VARIANCES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Request for amendments or variances, as provided within this
chapter, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator or Clerk on an official
application form. Such application shall be accompanied by complimentary copies
of detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use. The Zoning Administrator or Clerk shall refer said
complete application, along with all related information, to the Planning
Commission for consideration and a report at least 15 days before the next
regular meeting.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator or Clerk, on behalf of the Planning
Commission, shall set a date for a public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall
be posted as provided by state law at least 10 days prior to the date of the
hearing. In the requests for variances, such notice shall also be mailed not
less than 10 days to all abutting property owners of record according to the
county assessment records of the property to which the request relates. And if
the variance to this chapter relates to lands located within 1000 feet of the
Sunrise Pools or Unnamed Lake or within 300 feet of Sunrise River, a notice
shall be mailed to the Commissioner of Natural Resources or his or her
authorized agent at least 10 days prior to such hearings. A copy of the notice
and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the notice was sent
shall be attested to by the Zoning Administrator or Clerk and made part of the
official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has been made.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request and hold a
public hearing at its next regular meeting unless the filing date falls within
15 days of said meeting, in which case the request would be placed on the
agenda and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular
meeting. The Zoning Administrator or Clerk shall refer the application, along
with all related information, to the Planning Commission for consideration. The
applicant or a representative thereof shall appear before the Planning
Commission in order to answer questions concerning the proposed amendment.
      (4)   In requests for variances, the Planning Commission may recommend a
variance from the provisions of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue
hardship may result from strict compliance. In recommending any variance, the
Planning Commission shall prescribe only conditions that it deems necessary to
or desirable for the public interest. In making its recommendations, the
Planning Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of
land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to
reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the
proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. A variance shall
only be recommended when the Planning Commission finds:
         (a)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting
said property such that the strict application of the provisions of this
chapter would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
         (b)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which
property is situated;
         (c)   That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an
extreme physical hardship such as topography, soils, wetlands, and the like.
      (5)   Within 60 days from the date of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation and in requests for variances shall also
make a finding of fact to the Council.
      (6)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, or
until 60 days after the public hearing at which the request was considered, the
Council shall place the report and recommendation on the agenda for the next
regular meeting. Such reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made
part of the permanent written record of the Council meeting.
      (7)   (a)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission,
the Council shall either:
            1.   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the
Planning Commission; or
            2.   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning
Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. Such
modifications, alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and
made part of the Council's records; or
            3.   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for
future consideration. This procedure shall be followed only 1 time on a single
action.
         (b)   Approval of a request shall require passage by two-thirds vote
of the full Council. The Zoning Administrator or City Clerk shall notify the
applicant of the Council's action.
      (8)   Variance decisions affecting all or part of any land located within
1000 feet of the Sunrise Pools and Unnamed Lake or 300 feet of the Sunrise
River shall be mailed to the Commissioner of Natural Resources or his or her
authorized agent within 10 days of the decision. On lands located within 300
feet of the Rum River no approval of a variance shall be final until the
decision is approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources, or until 30 days
have lapsed since the Commissioner received the notice of the decision.
   (B)   Lapse of variance. Whenever within 1 year after granting a variance
the work as permitted by the variance shall not have been completed, then such
variance shall become null and void unless a petition for extension of time in
which to complete the work has been granted by the Council. Such extension
shall be requested in writing and filed with the Zoning Administrator or Clerk
at least 30 days before the expiration of the original variance. There shall be
no charge for the filing of such petition. The request for extension shall
state facts showing a good faith attempt to complete the work permitted by the
variance. Such petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation and to the Council for a decision and shall be made only one
time for a single action.
(Prior Code, § 1001.08)
§ 151.15 FEES.
   (A)   Application fee. To defray the administrative costs of processing of
requests for amendments, variances, appeals, exceptions, and subdivisions a
base fee per application shall be paid by all applicants as set forth in the
city fee schedule.
   (B)   Processing fee. In order to defray the additional cost of processing
applications (amendment, subdivision, exception, variance, and appeal) for
developments, all applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or
consulting time spent exclusively in producing and reviewing materials for the
applicant's request. Prior to an application being considered filed and
completed, the owner or subdivider of land shall execute and submit to the city
a preliminary deposit and distribution agreement addressing the reimbursement
of costs described herein, along with the security deposit in the amount set
forth in the city fee schedule.
      (1)   MATERIALS shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings, and similar items, and all printing or reproduction of same.
      (2)   STAFF and/or CONSULTING TIME shall include any time spent in either
researching, reviewing, or actual production of materials.
      (3)   The hourly rate for staff and/or consulting time shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the City Clerk prior to
production of any materials and the applicant shall be given a reasonable
estimate of project time and/or material costs.
   (C)   Fees. The application fee shall be payable at the time an application
is filed with the City Clerk and is not refundable unless the application is
withdrawn prior to referral to the Planning Commission. Any amount of the
security deposit remaining after all costs have been reimbursed to the city
shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 1001.09) (Am. Ord. 2003-7-3, passed 8-12-2003)
§ 151.16 ENFORCEMENT.
   Unless approved as a final plat or as a valid non-plat subdivision as
provided herein, no conveyance of land shall be filed or recorded in the County
Recorder's office or have validity; and the Zoning Administrator shall not
issue building permits for any structure on a lot in any proposed subdivision.
The city shall not permit any public improvements to be installed unless the
final plat is approved and recorded.
(Prior Code, § 1001.10)
SUBDIVISION REVIEW
§ 151.30 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Request for subdivision approval shall be filed with the Clerk on an
official application form. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as
outlined in §
151.15. This fee shall not be refunded. In the case of a subdivision involving
a plat, the application shall also be accompanied by two standard plat sizes
measuring 20 x 30, and two 11 x 17 copies, and digital file of the preliminary
plat. The Clerk shall refer the application and any preliminary plats to the
Planning Commission for consideration at least 15 days before the next regular
meeting. The applicant for subdivision shall enter into a preliminary agreement
with the city to pay all engineering, planning, legal and administrative costs
incurred by the city in reviewing the preliminary plat and shall place a
deposit with the city in a non-interest bearing account sufficient to pay all
said costs prior to commencement of review by the city.
   (B)   (1)   The Clerk, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall set a
date for a public hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be posted as provided by
state law at least 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice shall
also be mailed not less than 10 days to:
         (a)   All property owners of record according to the county assessment
records within 350 feet of the property;
         (b)   The Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources if the proposed subdivision is located in part or in total within
1,000 feet of the Sunrise Pools and Unnamed Lake or within 300 feet of the
Sunrise River;
         (c)   The Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Transportation
and the Chicago County Engineer if the proposed plat abuts or includes a state
trunk highway or a county state aid road, respectively;
         (d)   The local gas and power utility companies having jurisdiction.
      (2)   A copy of the notice and a list of the individuals and/or property
owners and addresses to which the notices were sent shall be attested to by the
Clerk and made a part of the official record. The failure to give mailed notice
to individual property owners or defects in the notice shall not invalidate the
proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has
been made.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall consider the subdivision and hold a
public hearing at its next regular meeting unless the filing date falls within
15 days of said meeting, in which case the subdivision would be placed on the
agenda and considered at the regular meeting following the next regular
meeting. The Clerk shall refer said application, along with all related
information, to the Planning Commission for consideration. The applicant or a
representative thereof shall appear before the Planning Commission in order to
answer questions concerning the subdivision.
   (D)   In considering a proposed subdivision, the Planning Commission shall
consider the following factors:
      (1)   Consistency with the design standards and other requirements of
this chapter;
      (2)   Consistency with the city's growth management system or other
development plans;
      (3)   Consistency with the zoning regulations;
      (4)   The physical characteristics of the site, including, but not
limited to topography, erosion, and flooding potential, and soil limitations,
are suitable for the type of development or use contemplated;
      (5)   The proposed development will not create a negative fiscal or
environmental impact upon the city.
   (E)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning the subdivision or
to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant
concerning said information to be declared necessary to establish compliance
with all pertinent sections of this chapter.
   (F)   Within 60 days from the date of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend such actions or
conditions relating to the subdivision or preliminary plat to the Council.
   (G)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, and within 60 days after the public hearing at which the
preliminary plat or subdivision was considered, the Council shall place the
report and recommendation on the agenda for the next regular meeting. Such
reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the permanent
written record of the Council meeting.
   (H)   (1)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the Council shall either:
         (a)   Approve or disapprove the request as recommended by the Planning
Commission; or
         (b)   Approve or disapprove the recommendation of the Planning
Commission with modifications, alterations, or differing conditions which shall
be in writing and made part of the Council's records; or
         (c)   Refer the recommendation back to the Planning Commission for
future consideration. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a
singular action.
      (2)   The Clerk shall notify the applicant of the Council's action and
reasons thereof. In the case of a subdivision not involving platting, the
Council's action is final.
   (I)   Upon approval of a subdivision requiring a preliminary plat by the
Council, the subdivider shall submit the final plat to the Planning Commission
within 1 year after said approval or approval of the preliminary plat shall be
considered void. Prior to the expiration of the preliminary plat approval, the
Planning Commission may extend the approval for an additional year. The
extension shall be in writing specifically designating the expiration date. The
extension shall not be subject to an additional fee, and only 1 extension may
be granted per preliminary plat.
(Prior Code, § 1001.03) (Am. Ord. 2001-6-1, passed - -2001; Am. Ord. 2022-5-5,
passed 5-10-2022)
§ 151.31 FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Final plats shall consist of 2 mylar or linen reproducible tracings, a
digital file in electronic format as required by the City Engineer suitable for
updating city base maps, and two standard plat sizes measuring 20 x 30, and two
11 x 17 copies, filed with the Clerk and submitted to the Planning Commission
within 15 days of the Planning Commission meeting. The Planning Commission
shall review final plats to assure consistency with the approved preliminary
plat. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation for approval or
disapproval with conditions and reasons thereof to the Council. If the plat is
disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified in writing of the reason for such
disapproval and what requirements are necessary to meet the approval of the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   All final plats, together with the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, shall be submitted to the Council at its next regularly scheduled
meeting. If accepted, the final plat shall be approved by resolution, including
acceptance of all agreements for basic improvements, public dedication and
other requirements as indicated by the Council. If denied, the reasons for such
refusal shall be set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported to
the subdivider.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to file the plat with
the appropriate county offices after final approval. Failure to do so within 1
year of final approval shall result in the requiring of a new preliminary plat.
This new preliminary plat must be reviewed in accordance with the procedure set
out in this chapter to insure compliance with any new requirements.
   (D)   A copy of all final plats located in total or in part within the SL
Shoreland District shall be submitted to the Commissioner of DNR within 10 days
of final plat approval.
(Prior Code, § 1001.03) (Am. Ord. 2016-11-6, passed 11-9-2016; Am. Ord. 2022-5-
6, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 151.32 DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR PRELIMINARY PLAT. 
   All preliminary plats must contain the following information.
   (A)   Identification and description.
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision.
      (2)   Date and north point.
      (3)   Scale of plat, not less than 1 inch to 200 feet.
      (4)   Indication of any proposed covenants.
      (5)   Location map indicating location of proposed subdivision in
relationship to general known area.
      (6)   Legal description of proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Existing conditions and proposed design features.
      (1)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision.
      (2)   Zoning of land within and abutting the subdivision.
      (3)   Layout, dimensions and acreage of proposed lots and blocks.
      (4)   Name, location and right-of-way width of existing or proposed
streets, highways, alleys, sidewalks and pedestrianways.
      (5)   High water mark of all lakes, rivers, streams and wetlands.
      (6)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of existing and proposed
utilities and utility easements.
      (7)   Location and dimensions of existing and proposed public sewer and
water systems.
      (8)   Existing and proposed storm water drainage system, including
drainage easements.
      (9)   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land within
350 feet, identifying by name and ownership.
      (10)   Proposed zoning changes, if necessary.
      (11)   Minimum front, side and rear yard setbacks as required by the
zoning ordinance.
      (12)   Location, dimensions, and size of areas, other than streets,
alleys, pedestrianways, and utility easements, proposed to be dedicated or
reserved for public uses.
   (C)   Supplementary information. The following information may be required
if it is deemed necessary and appropriate by the Clerk or Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Soil survey, grading plan, soil erosion and sediment control plan,
and landscaping plan;
      (2)   Statement of proposed use of development, including type and number
of structures and units;
      (3)   Statement of adequacy of existing or proposed utilities to
accommodate or serve the proposed development;
      (4)   Statement relative to the relationship of the proposed subdivision
with existing or potential adjacent subdivisions;
      (5)   Statement of estimated cost of proposed required improvements;
      (6)   Other information deemed necessary by the Clerk, Zoning
Administrator Planner, Planning Commission or subdivider;
      (7)   Existing topography, including contour lines at 2-foot intervals.
Water courses, wetlands, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and lines, and
other significant features shall also be known. United States Geological Survey
(U.S.G.S.) data may be used for all topographic mapping where feasible.
(Prior Code, § 1001.04) (Am. Ord. 2022-5-5, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 151.33 DATA REQUIREMENTS FOR FINAL PLAT.
   All final plats shall be prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota
State Statutes and shall include as a minimum the following information:
   (A)   Name of subdivision;
   (B)   Scale, north arrow, and date of plat;
   (C)   All plats shall be of either 2 standard sizes measuring 20 by 30 or 30
by 40 inches from outer edge to outer edge. A border line shall be placed one-
half inch inside the outer edges of the plat on the top, bottom, and right hand
side of the plat, and 2 inches inside the outer edge of the left hand side of
the plat;
   (D)   Durable iron monument shall be set at all angles and curve points on
the outside boundary lines of the plat, at all block corners, and at all
intermediate points on the block lines indicating changes of direction in the
lines. The outside boundary lines of the plat shall be correctly designated
showing bearings on all straight lines, angles at all angle points, and central
angle and radii and arc length for all curves. All distances shall be shown
between monuments as measured to the nearest hundredths of a foot. If a curved
line constitutes the line of more than 1 lot in any block, the central angle
for that part of each lot on the curved line shall be shown. The outside
boundary lines shall close by latitude and departure with an error not to
exceed 1 foot in 7,300 feet;
   (E)   In any instance where a river, stream, creek, lake, or pond
constitutes a boundary line within or of the plat, a survey line shall be shown
with bearings or angles and distances between all angle points and their
relationship to a water line, and all distances measured on the survey line
between lot lines shall be shown. The survey line shall be shown as a dashed
line;
   (F)   Location, dimensions, and name or number of all existing or proposed
lots, blocks, streets, highways, alleys, parks, and public lands;
   (G)   All rivers, streams, creeks, lakes, ponds, swamps, and wetlands shall
be correctly located and designated;
   (H)   Name and boundary lines or any adjoining platted lands;
   (I)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
   (J)   Name and address of developer and surveyor making the plat;
   (K)   A written instrument of dedication signed and acknowledged by the
owner of the land, including a full and accurate description of the land
platted and set forth what part of the land is dedicated and also to whom and
for what purpose these parts are dedicated;
   (L)   A written surveyor's certificate certifying that the plat is a correct
representation of the survey, that all distances are correctly shown on the
plat, that all monuments have been correctly placed in the ground as shown, and
that the outside boundary lines are correctly designated on the plat. If there
are no wetlands, streets or highways to be designated, he or she shall so
state. The certificate shall be sworn to before any officer authorized to
administer an oath;
   (M)   Delinquent tax certification as follows:
“No delinquent taxes and transfer entered this
                                      day of                  , 20          .”
   (N)   Certification of city approval as follows:
“Approved by the City of Stacy, Minnesota, this
                                   day of                 , 20         .”
      Signed                                                     
            Mayor
      Attested                                                   
            City Clerk
   (O)   A written and signed attorney's certificate that proper and clear
evidence of title has been presented and examined.
(Prior Code, § 1001.04)
PLAT DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.45 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The character, extent, width, grade and location of all streets
shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned streets, to
topographical conditions, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the land to be served by such
streets.
      (2)   The arrangements of streets in a subdivision shall either provide
for the continuation of existing streets in surrounding areas or conform to a
plan for the neighborhood approved or adopted by the Council to meet a
particular situation, where topographical or other conditions make continuance
of existing streets impractical.
      (3)   Residential streets or minor streets should be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
      (4)   Where a subdivision abuts on or contains an existing or proposed
arterial street, marginal access streets, reverse frontage with screen
plantings, non-access reservations along arterial property lines abutting the
arterial streets, deep lots, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
protection of residential properties is encouraged. Direct frontage and/or
access to arterial streets should be avoided.
      (5)   Street traffic should be designed to flow toward arterial and
collector streets. Streets should fit the contours of the land. Street grades,
where feasible, shall not be greater than 8% and not less than .5%.
   (B)   Half streets. Dedication of half streets shall be prohibited, except
where essential to reasonable development of future subdivisions.
   (C)   Dead end streets and cul-de-sacs. Dead end streets are prohibited, but
cul-de-sacs will be permitted. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet,
including a turn-around at the closed end. The turn-around shall have a minimum
outside curb radius of at least 40 feet and a right-of-way radius of not less
than 50 feet; except for T-shaped turn-arounds where permitted.
   (D)   Street intersections. Streets should intersect as nearly as possible
at right angles, except under unusual topographic conditions. The minimum angle
of street intersection shall be 80 degrees. Street intersections shall not be
off-set less than 150 feet as measured from the center lines and shall have a
minimum vertical sight distance of 300 feet as measured 15 feet from the
roadway along the center line.
   (E)   Alleys. Alleys, where provided, shall not be less than 30 feet wide in
commercial areas and 20 feet wide in residential areas. Dead end alleys should
be avoided, but if unavoidable, adequate turn-around areas shall be provided at
the closed end.
   (F)   Right-of-way standards. Public right-of-way widths shall be dedicated
using the following minimum standards or those recommended by the state or
county highway department and as approved by the city (in feet):
Public Right-of-Way Right-of-Way Paved
Public Right-of-Way    Right-of-Way       Paved
Arterial street        100                60
Collector street       70                 44
Minor or local street  60
Marginal access street 60                 Per Engineering Design Standards***
Cul-de-sac             60***
Alley                  As provided in §  As provided in §
                       151.45(E)          151.45(E)
Pedestrian way         10                 10
Private common access  **                 **
 
**   The Council may decide to approve private common access where appropriate
and may require such standards as deemed appropriate.
***   In addition to turn-around requirements outlined in §
151.45 (C).
   (G)   Street alignment. The horizontal and vertical alignment minimum
requirements on all streets shall be as follows (in feet):
 
Street        Horizontal* Vertical**
Arterial      150         500
Collector     50          300
Minor         50          200
Cul-de-sacs   50          100
Intersections 15***       300
 
*   Radii of center line.
**   Minimum sight distance as measured at 4 feet above ground level along the
center line. For intersections as measured 15 feet from the edge of the
roadway.
***   Curb line radius.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05)
§ 151.46 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Easements having a minimum width of 10 feet shall be provided along
the side or rear lot lines as required for utility lines and underground mains
and cables.
   (B)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. All utility easements should be reviewed by the
appropriate utility company or corporation. Where feasible, all utilities shall
be placed underground.
   (C)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel or strain, there shall be provided a floodage easement or drainage
right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such water course.
   (D)   Pedestrian walkway easements with right-of-way of not less than 10
feet in width shall be required where deemed essential to provide circulation
or access to schools, playgrounds, shopping centers, transportation and other
community facilities as shall be determined by the Planning Commission and
Council.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05)
§ 151.47 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Blocks shall not be greater than 1,800 feet in length, except
if necessary due to unusual topographic or other conditions. In residential
areas, blocks longer than 600 feet shall be provided with pedestrianways or
easements near the center of the block.
   (B)   Width. Blocks should have sufficient width to provide 2 tiers of lots
of minimum depth to allow sufficient area for building and adequate off-street
parking.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05) (Am. Ord. 2016-11-4, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 151.48 LOTS.
   (A)   General. The lot size, width, shape, and orientation shall be
appropriate for the proposed type of development and meet the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance in effect upon approval of the final plat.
   (B)   Frontage. All lots shall have frontage upon a public street or upon an
approved private common access road.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential purposes shall have extra
width to allow appropriate building setback from and orientation to both
streets, as required by the zoning ordinance in effect upon approval of the
final plat.
   (D)   Lot lines. All side lot lines shall be perpendicular or radial to
street right-of-way lines.
   (E)   Double and reverse lots. Double frontage and reverse lots should be
avoided except where essential to provide separation of residential uses from
arterial streets, conflicting uses, or other adverse conditions.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05)
§ 151.49 SOIL EROSION AND STEEP SLOPES.
   (A)   Topsoil and vegetation distributed or destroyed during or after
construction shall be replaced or replanted to minimize soil erosion.
   (B)   No construction or grading shall be allowed on slopes greater than
20%. The subdivider does have the option of dedicating steep slopes to the city
or an officially recognized homeownership association.
   (C)   During and after construction, slopes shall be protected from erosion
by quick establishment of vegetative cover, benches, terraces, mulches, or
other proper protection devices or practices. Stands of existing vegetation
adequate to control erosion should be preserved wherever possible.
   (D)   Any land reclamation or filling shall conform to the applicable
regulations outlined within the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05)
§ 151.50 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Plans for surface water runoff and drainage shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and Council prior to final plat approval.
   (B)   The subdivision should be designed so the drainage system utilizes to
the greatest extent possible existing natural overland flows, open channel and
drainage routes.
   (C)   The drainage system shall be constructed and operational during the
initial phase of construction.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05)
§ 151.51 WETLAND, SHORELAND, AND FLOOD PLAIN AREAS.
   Where the subdivision of a lot or tract of land contains water courses,
floodable areas or wetlands, said land shall be:
   (A)   Dedicated to the city as a park, parkway, open space, or other public
use; or
   (B)   Carried in a private easement to the individual deeds affected with no
allowance for building construction therein; or
   (C)   Developed in accordance with a plan setting forth provisions for
sediment control, water management, maintenance of landscaped features, and
indicating any change will be made in the natural condition of the earth and
its effects, if any, upon water courses, lakes, streams, wetlands and drainage
ways;
   (D)   (1)   Not approved as a final plat, if located within 300 feet of the
Sunrise River and no control sewer is available, until the subdivider has
submitted data from percolation tests and soil borings which prove that each
lot in the subdivision has a suitable location and an adequate area for the
installation of an on-site sewage treatment system that meets the general
requirements of the Minnesota Department of Health and the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and Council shall review the option
selected and approve or disapprove said dedication, private easement or
development plan. In no case shall land be subdivided which is held unsuitable
by the city or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources for the proposed use because of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil
and rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion
potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal
capabilities, or any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety,
or welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the city.
   (E)   Development within the Floodplain Management Overlay District shall
comply with the standards set forth in §
153.059 and the specific provisions of §
153.059(G) of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 1001.05) (Am. Ord. 2012-3-2, passed 3-13-2012)
§ 151.52 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Applicability and exemptions. This section shall apply to all new
subdivision, replatting, registered land surveys (RLSs), development and
redevelopment applications after March 1, 2017. All new subdivision,
replatting, development, and redevelopment applications shall meet the
requirements of division (C) of this section, and those containing more than 1
principal building shall meet the requirements of division (D) of this section.
   (B)   General requirements. Applications for subdivision, replatting,
registered land survey, development, or redevelopment shall meet the following
standards:
      (1)   Where adopted city plans show a bicycle or pedestrian path or trail
or sidewalk, the site design shall provide connections to those paths or trails
or sidewalks;
      (2)   Any requests by the city for designation or dedication of land for
bicycle or pedestrian trails within a proposed development shall comply with §
151.81;
      (3)   Unless the city engineer waives the requirement based on concerns
of public safety or site/topography constraints, each proposed public or
private street in all zoning districts shall include a sidewalk at least 5 feet
wide on both sides of the street;
      (4)   Whenever cul-de-sac streets are created, a sidewalk shall be
provided, within a minimum 10-foot-wide pedestrian access/public utility
easement, between the cul-de-sac head or street turnaround and the sidewalk
system of the closest adjacent street or pedestrian sidewalk or pathway, unless
the city engineer determines that public access in that location is not
practicable due to site or topography constraints;
      (5)   A sidewalk shall be provided, within a pedestrian way at least 10
feet in width, near the middle of any block face longer than 600 feet in order
to provide connections with streets on either side of the block;
      (6)   Sidewalks shall be constructed as approved by the city engineer as
follows:
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of 4 inches of PC concrete on
compacted porous subgrade. The walk must be continued through driveway sections
where it shall be increased in thickness to 8 inches on major thoroughfares and
collector roads and 6 inches in all other instances. Curbs must be tapered to
meet the walk. Cross slopes on the sidewalk shall be 1/4-inch per foot toward
the street;
         (b)   Proposed grades must be indicated along the property line and of
the walk, driveways, and intermittent locations along the length of the walk;
         (c)   Any structures, hydrants, poles, etc. that are existing along
the alignment of the walk, must be adjusted or relocated at the expense and
coordination of the developer;
         (d)   Sidewalks and trails shall be constructed in such a manner so as
to prevent pooling of surface water runoff and to drain away from any nearby
buildings. The profile grade shall not exceed the grade of the adjacent
roadway, unless authorized by the city engineer; and
         (e)   Sidewalks shall be at least 5 feet wide and constructed in
accordance with details and specifications approved by the city engineer;
      (7)   Location.
         (a)   Sidewalks shall be included within the dedicated street right-
of-way unless otherwise approved by the city engineer.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be located at least 5 feet from the back of the
curb to allow for snow storage, street trees, and boulevard sodding.
   (C)   Americans with Disabilities Act. All “places of public accommodation,”
as defined in the federal Americans With Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12101 et.
seq.) shall comply with the requirements of that act concerning on-site
circulation and access.
   (D)   Multi-building developments. Commercial developments containing more
than 1 principal building on a single lot or parcel shall include an
unobstructed walkway or pathway providing access between the principal
buildings. The walkway or pathway shall be at least 5 feet wide.
(Ord. 2017-2-1, passed 2-15-2017)
PUBLIC USE OF DEDICATION OR CONTRIBUTION
§ 151.65 GENERAL.
   (A)   Required. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, subd. 2(b), as amended from time
to time, except as otherwise provided in this section, the city requires all
owners or developers, as a prerequisite to approval of a plat, subdivision or
development of any land, to convey to the city, or dedicate to the public use,
a reasonable portion of any such proposal for public use as streets, roads,
sewers, electric, gas and water facilities, stormwater drainage and holding
areas or ponds, similar utilities and improvements, or parks playgrounds,
trails or open space, such portions to be approved and acceptable to the city.
   (B)   Suitability of dedicated land. Any land to be dedicated as a
requirement of this section shall be reasonably adaptable for its proposed use
and shall be at a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors used
in evaluating the adequacy of proposed park and recreation areas shall include
size, shape, topography, geology, tree cover, access and location.
   (C)   Park dedication requirements. Except as otherwise provided in this
division (C), subdividers and developers of land within the city shall be
required to dedicate to the city for park, playground, trail and public open
space purposes the following minimum amounts of land or cash, or both,
whichever the city, at its option, shall require. The required dedication shall
be made prior to the city’s release of the final plat for filing. Subdividers
and developers may, however, pay the park dedication fee at any time after the
final plat has been approved by the city council. The amount of any required
cash contribution shall be calculated based upon rates established by the city
and in effect as of the date of the release of the final plat for filing. For
purposes of this division (C), words such as, but not limited to, “total
acreage”, “subdivision area”, “the property in the plat, subdivision or
development”, and “the property being platted”, whenever such words appear in
this division or any resolution or policy adopted pursuant thereto, shall mean
the gross area of the plat, subdivision or development except any undeveloped
outlot that will, by current standards, be required to make the dedication
required in this division at such time as the outlot is developed, subdivided
or platted in the future.
      (1)   Residential dedications.
         (a)   Land shall be dedicated pursuant to the following schedule,
wherein density is calculated by considering the total acreage of the entire
plat, subdivision or development being considered:
 
Dwelling Units per Gross Acre Dedication Requirement
Less than 9                   10% of subdivision area
9 and more                    11% of subdivision area plus an additional 1% for
                              each additional dwelling unit per acre over 9
 
         (b)   A cash contribution in lieu of land dedication may be required
at the discretion of the city. The cash contribution shall be calculated by the
city estimating the fair market value per acre of residential property in the
city, and such value shall then be multiplied by 10% and the resulting figure
divided by the average density of residential development existing in the city.
The city shall establish the cash contribution by resolution, which shall not
exceed the above calculation.
         (c)   The city may require the subdivider or developer to make a
combination cash and land dedication pursuant to the following formula.
            1.   The amount of land which could be required in accordance with
this chapter shall be calculated.
            2.   From the total calculated under division (C)(1)(c)l. of this
section, the actual amount of land the city determines to be needed to fulfill
the purposes of this division (C)(1)(c) shall be subtracted.
            3.   The balance arrived at under division (C)(1)(c)2. of this
section shall be converted into a cash contribution in lieu of land dedication
pursuant to a standard formula established by the city, which formula takes
into consideration such things as, but not necessarily limited to, the fair
market value of the property in the plat, subdivision or development and the
percentage of the total park dedication obligation represented by such balance.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial dedication requirements.
         (a)   Land dedication, if required, shall be 7 1/2% of the subdivision
or development.
         (b)   If the city requires payment of fees in lieu of land dedication,
that fee shall be based upon the same percentage set forth in division (C)(2)
(a) of this section, multiplied by the acreage of the proposed plat,
development or subdivision, and by the council’s estimate, as established at
least annually by resolution, of the fair market value per acre of undeveloped
commercial/industrial land in the community.
         (c)   Where a combination land and cash dedication is made, the lands
dedicated will be deducted from the total park dedication land requirement, and
the balance of required dedication acreage will be multiplied by the current
council estimate established pursuant to division (C)(2)(b) of this section to
determine the amount of cash dedication.
      (3)   Miscellaneous requirements. The following requirements apply to all
dedications or conveyances for park, playground, trail or public open space
purposes:
         (a)   Suitability of land. Land conveyed or dedicated pursuant to the
provisions of this division (C) must be located outside of drainageways,
floodplains and ponding areas after the site has been developed.
         (b)   Installation of improvements. As part of their development
contract or site plan approval responsibilities, owners and developers shall be
responsible for making certain improvements to the developments for park,
playground, trail and public open space purposes, including, but not limited
to, finished grading and ground cover for all park, playground, trail and
public open spaces within their developments.
         (c)   Standards for location.
            1.   The City Council shall adopt standards and guidelines for
determining what geographic location of each such development should reasonably
be required to be so conveyed or dedicated.
            2.   Such standards and guidelines may take into consideration the
zoning classification to be assigned to the land to be developed, the
particular use proposed for such land, amenities to be provided and factors of
density and site development as proposed by the owners or developers.
            3.   The City Council may adopt changes and amendments from time to
time to such standards and guidelines to reflect changes in the usage of land
which may occur, changes in zoning classifications and concepts, and changes in
planning and development concepts that relate to the development and usages to
which land may be put.
         (d)   Acquisition of sites proposed on official map or comprehensive
plan. Where a proposed park, playground, trail, open space or other
recreational area that has been indicated on the official map and/or
comprehensive plan is located in whole or in part within a proposed
subdivision, such proposed site shall be designated as such and be dedicated to
the city. If the subdivider chooses not to dedicate an area in excess of the
land required under this section for such proposed site, the council shall not
be required to act to approve or disapprove the plat of the subdivision for a
period of 90 days after the subdivider meets all the provisions of this
chapter, in order to permit the council to consider the proposed plat and to
take the necessary steps to acquire, through purchase or condemnation, all or
part of the public site proposed on the official map or comprehensive plan.
         (e)   Density and open space requirements under zoning regulations.
Land area so conveyed or dedicated for park playground, trail and open space
purposes may not be used by an owner or developer as an allowance for purposes
of calculating the density requirements of the development as set out in
Chapter 153 and shall be in addition to and not in lieu of open space
requirements for planned unit developments pursuant to
Chapter 153.
         (f)   Private open space. Where private open space for park,
playground, trail, open space or other recreation purposes is provided in a
proposed subdivision and such space is to be privately owned and maintained by
the future residents of the subdivision, such areas may be used for credit at
the discretion of the city council against the requirement of dedication for
purposes described in this division (C), provided the City Council finds it is
in the public interest to do so and that the following standards are met:
            1.   Yards, court areas, setbacks and other open space required to
be maintained by the zoning and building regulations shall not be included in
the computation of such private open space;
            2.   The private ownership and maintenance of the open space shall
be adequately provided for by written agreement;
            3.   The private open space shall be restricted for park,
playground, trail, open space or recreational purposes by recorded covenants
which run with the land in favor of the future owners of property within the
tract and which cannot be eliminated without the consent of the City Council;
            4.   The proposed private open space must be reasonably adaptable
for use for such purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size,
shape, topography, geology, access and location of the private open space land;
            5.   Facilities proposed for such purposes must be in substantial
accordance with the provisions of the recreational element of the comprehensive
plan, and be approved by the City Council; and
            6.   Where such credit is granted, the amount of credit shall not
exceed 25% of the amount calculated in division (C)(1) or (2) of this section,
whichever is applicable.
         (g)   Disposition of cash contributions. The city shall establish a
separate fund into which all cash contributions received from owners and
developers in lieu of conveyance or dedication of land for park, playground,
trail and open space purposes shall be deposited. The city shall establish
separate budgeting and accounting procedures for such fund and shall make from
time to time appropriations from such fund for acquisition of land for such
purposes, for developing existing park, playground, trail and open space sites
or for debt retirement in connection with land previously acquired for such
purposes.
         (h)   Administrative procedures. The city shall establish such
administrative procedures as it may deem necessary and required to implement
the provisions of this division (C).
      (4)   Determination of land type. The determination of whether land is
residential, commercial, or industrial shall be based upon the zoning of the
particular land for which dedication is required. Zoning classifications shall
be categorized as follows:
 
Zoning                            Land Type
R-1,R-2,R-3A,R-3B,R-M             Residential
CBD, GB,                          Commercial
I, LI                             Industrial
Planned unit development (PUD),SL See underlying zoning classification
A                                 Agricultural
 
      (5)   Waivers. The park dedication requirement may be waived by the city
council in connection with lands described below in (a) and (b) of this
division (C)(5), subject to the requirements of (c) and (d) of this division
(C)(5). Such lands include:
         (a)   Land owned by a government or governmental subdivision, which
land is or will be devoted to a public purpose; and
         (b)   Privately owned land that is intended to be maintained or
developed so as to contain on at least 90% of the gross subdivision area large
park-like areas open to use by the public such as a golf course.
         (c)   Prior to subdivision approval and any such waiver, the property
owner (public or private) must present to the city in recordable form a
covenant running with the land and satisfactory to the city wherein the owner
agrees for himself, his heirs, successors, and assigns to make park dedication
for the land according to prevailing requirements at the time dedication is
required in any of the following circumstances:
            1.   Whenever public lands or uses or portions thereof which are
otherwise exempt become privately owned and do not or will not meet the 90%
requirement set forth in this division, as measured at the time of the
covenant;
            2.   Whenever more than 10% of the gross subdivision area of any
privately owned property, as measured at the time of the covenant, becomes
developed so as to prevent the public by design or implication from
unrestricted access to the land; or
            3.   If the actual or intended use of the land changes so as to be
inconsistent with the types of public activities and uses set forth in this
subsection.
         (d)   The covenant referred to in division (C)(5)(c) of this section
shall be filed in the office of the county recorder at the owner’s expense at
or before the recording of the plat by which the subdivision is accomplished.
(Ord. 2010-5-1, passed 5-11-2010)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.80 GENERAL.
   The following improvements shall be complied with and provided in accordance
with city standards and approval and as provided within the plat agreement as
indicated in §
151.82.
(Prior Code, § 1001.07)
§ 151.81 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   All improvements identified below and as included within the
subdivision agreement shall be installed at the expense of the subdivider
according to standards and specifications approved by the Council and installed
in the following sequence:
      (1)   The full width of all street right-of-ways and utility easements as
approved on the final plat will be finished at rough grade; for example, no
more than 6 inches from the finished grade;
      (2)   Sanitary sewer, water, and drainage facilities, and electric,
telephone and gas service lines shall be installed as required by the
subdivision agreement. Where city water and sewer facilities are not available
for extension into the subdivision, the Council may permit the use of
individual water and sewer systems in accordance with appropriate state
regulations and city goals and policies;
      (3)   All streets shall be curbed, guttered, and paved as required by the
subdivision agreement. The city may delay street paving if city water, sewer or
storm sewer facilities are not available but are anticipated in the foreseeable
future, in which case the owner or subdivider shall provide the city with
security for the completion of such improvements, as set forth in §
151.83, all on terms acceptable to the city. If street paving is not required,
all street right-of-ways shall be finished at final grade with Class V gravel;
      (4)   Street signs and street lights shall be installed as required by
the subdivision agreement;
      (5)   As may be required by the city, street trees and boulevard sodding
shall be planted;
      (6)   Sidewalks as required by this title shall be installed; and
      (7)   Street signs and street lights shall be installed as required by
this chapter and in conformance with §
153.008.
   (B)   Where feasible, all utility service lines shall be placed underground
within easements or dedicated right-of-ways. All drainage and other utility
installations which traverse privately owned property shall be protected by
proper easements and/or legal agreements.
(Prior Code, § 1001.07) (Am. Ord, 2003-7-4, passed - -2003; Am. Ord. 2017-2-1,
passed 2-15-2017)
§ 151.82  SUBDIVISION AGREEMENT.
   Prior to the approval of the final plat by the Council, the owner or
subdivider of the land covered by the said plat shall execute and submit to the
Council an agreement, binding on his or her or their heirs, personal
representatives and assigns, including:
   (A)   A provision that no private construction will be made on said plat or
no building permit shall be filed for such construction until all improvements
required under this chapter have been made or arranged for in a manner approved
by the Council;
   (B)   A listing or schedule of when and what improvements shall be required
as recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the Council;
   (C)   A certification by the Clerk or City Engineer that the improvements,
agreements, and documents meet the minimum requirements of all applicable
regulations;
   (D)   A provision containing all conditions, if any, imposed by the Council
upon approval of the final plat;
   (E)   A provision outlining the procedure or alternative to be utilized in
the financing of required improvements in accordance with §
151.83.
(Prior Code, § 1001.07)
§ 151.83 FINANCING REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the final plat approval and included within the subdivision
agreement, the owner or subdivider shall submit to the Council for approval the
alternative requested to be utilized in the financing of the required
improvements. Such alternative shall be limited to one of the following:
      (1)   Cash deposit, cash escrow agreement, or performance bond, with
sureties satisfactory to the city submitted to the Clerk in an amount 125 % the
estimated cost of such improvements;
      (2)   Cash deposit, cash escrow agreement, or performance bond equal to
or greater than 25% of the estimated cost of improvements with the remaining
costs to be assessed to the improved properties at the interest rate specified
by the Council. The Council shall have the option to select the type and amount
of improvements to be assessed;
      (3)   Improvements within the subdivision which have been completed prior
to final plat approval shall be accepted as equivalent improvements in
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter, but only if said
improvements conform to applicable state and city standards.
   (B)   Improvement costs shall include all construction costs incurred in
making such improvements, all expense incurred by the city for engineering,
planning and legal fees, and all other expense in connection with the making of
such improvements. The Council shall determine which alternative and what type
of security shall be acceptable in financing the improvements.
(Prior Code, § 1001.07)
§ 151.84 ODOR AND CORROSION CONTROL MEASURES, FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   All subdivisions under this chapter shall comply with the sanitary sewer
odor and corrosion control regulations as set forth in §
52.61 of this city code.
(Ord. 2012-6-1, passed 6-12-2012)
CHAPTER 152: COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
Section
   
152.01   Comprehensive Plan adopted by reference
§ 152.01 COMPREHENSIVE PLAN ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Comprehensive Plan, revised December 8, 2020, as amended from time to
time, is adopted by reference and incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Am. Ord. -, passed - -1997; Am. Ord. 2022-5-4, passed 5-10-2022)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Intent and purpose
   
153.002   Relation to Comprehensive Municipal Plan
   
153.003   Uses not provided for within zoning districts
   
153.004   Definitions
   
153.005   Rules of interpretation
   
153.006   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
153.007   Farming operations
   
153.008   Street lighting standards
   
153.009   Recreational camping areas
   
153.010   Rural retail tourism business
Provisions Affecting all Zoning Districts
   
153.020   Districts created
   
153.021   Zoning Map
   
153.022   Zoning district boundaries
   
153.023   Annexed land
   
153.024   Uses not specifically provided for
   
153.025   Lot size requirements
   
153.026   Yard requirements
   
153.027   Building size regulations
   
153.028   Foundation requirements
   
153.029   Roof pitch requirement
   
153.030   Height requirements
   
153.031   Accessory buildings and structures
   
153.032   Fence requirements
   
153.033   Home occupations
   
153.034   Alternative energy systems
   
153.035   Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU)
Provisions Affecting Specific Zoning Districts
   
153.045   R-1 Single Family Residential (Low Density)
   
153.046   R-2 One and Two Family Residential (Medium Density)
   
153.047   R-3A Multiple Family Residential
   
153.048   R-3B Multiple Family Residential
   
153.049   R-M Manufactured Home Park District
   
153.050   CBD Central Business District
   
153.051   GB General Business District
   
153.052   I Industrial District
   
153.053   LI Light Industrial District
   
153.054   SL Shoreland District
   
153.055   PUD Planned Unit Development District
   
153.056   A Agriculture District
   
153.057   P Park District
   
153.058   OS Open Space District
   
153.059   General Floodplain District; floodplain management
   
153.060   RR-A Rural Residential Agricultural District
   
153.061   RR-I Rural Residential District I
   
153.062   RR-II Rural Residential District II
   
153.063   RTC Rural Transit Center District
   
153.064   RBO Rural Business Overlay District
   
153.065   NRP Natural Resource Preservation District
Environmental Quality Control Standards
   
153.071   Purpose
   
153.072   Application
   
153.073   Nuisance standards
   
153.074   Storage standards
   
153.075   Visual standards
   
153.076   Roadside standards
   
153.077   Maintenance standards
   
153.078   Drainage standards
   
153.079   Traffic standards
   
153.080   Inoperative motor vehicles
   
153.081   Hazardous elements standards
   
153.082   Feed lots - livestock pollution
   
153.083   Sanitary landfills
   
153.084   Mineral extraction
   
153.085   Land reclamation
   
153.086   Erosion control and landscape standards
   
153.087   Biofuel burners
Signs
   
153.090   Findings
   
153.091   Purpose and intent
   
153.092   Effect
   
153.093   Definitions
   
153.094   Permit required
   
153.095   Exemptions
   
153.096   Prohibited signs
   
153.097   Fees
   
153.098   Repairs
   
153.099   Removal
   
153.100   Nonconforming signs
   
153.101   Design and construction standards
   
153.102   Development complex signage
   
153.103   Variances
   
153.104   Types of signs
   
153.105   Adult use signs
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
153.110   Purpose
   
153.111   Scope of regulations
   
153.112   Calculating space
   
153.113   Site plan
   
153.114   Site plan criteria
   
153.115   Reduction of existing parking and loading spaces
   
153.116   Change of use and occupancy of land or buildings
   
153.117   Use of parking and loading space
   
153.118   Maintenance
   
153.119   Stall, aisle, and driveway design
   
153.120    Number of required parking and loading spaces
   
153.121   Parking in residential districts
Towers and Antennae
   
153.155   Purpose
   
153.156   Definitions
   
153.157   Conditional use permit required
   
153.158   Towers in residential zoning districts
   
153.159   Showing of need and co-location requirements
   
153.160   Tower construction requirements
   
153.161   Tower and antenna design requirements
   
153.162   Tower setbacks
   
153.163   Tower lighting
   
153.164   Signs and advertising
   
153.165   Accessory utility buildings
   
153.166   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers
   
153.167   Antennas mounted on roofs, walls, and existing towers
   
153.168   Interference with public safety telecommunications
   
153.169   Additional submittal requirements
   
153.170   Height
   
153.171   Construction and maintenance of antenna and supporting towers
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.185   Zoning Administrator
   
153.186   Building permit
   
153.187   Board of Adjustments and Appeals
   
153.188   Variances
   
153.189   Conditional use permit
   
153.190   Interim use permit
   
153.191   Amendment of zoning ordinance
   
153.192   Information requirement
   
153.193   Site plan review
   
153.194   Site performance agreement
 
   
153.998   Fees and cost recovery
   
153.999   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience,
and general welfare;
   (B)   Dividing the city into zones and districts and regulating therein the
location and use of structures and land;
   (C)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, agricultural,
recreational, and public areas;
   (D)   Providing adequate light, air, and convenience of access to property;
   (E)   Limiting congestion in the public rights-of-way;
   (F)   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them;
   (G)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city;
   (H)   Providing for the administration of this chapter and amendments
thereto;
   (I)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter;
   (J)   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto.
(Prior Code, § 901.01)
§ 153.002 RELATION TO COMPREHENSIVE MUNICIPAL PLAN.
   It is the policy of the city that enforcement, amendment, and administration
of this chapter be accomplished with due consideration of the recommendation
contained in the city's Comprehensive Plan.
(Prior Code, § 901.02)
§ 153.003 USES NOT PROVIDED FOR WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Whenever, in any zoning district, a use is neither specifically permitted
nor denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case the Council or
the Planning Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a
study to determine if the use is acceptable, and if so, what zoning district
would be most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards
relating to development of the use. The City Council, Planning Commission or
property owner may, if appropriate, initiate an amendment to the zoning
ordinance to provide for the particular use under consideration or shall find
that the use is not compatible for development within the city.
(Prior Code, § 901.03)
§ 153.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words in the singular
number shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building or use which is located on
the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and is reasonably
necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary or principle use of such
building or main use.
   AGRICULTURE USES. Those uses commonly associated with the growing of produce
on farms. These include: field crop farming; pasture for hay; fruit growing;
tree, plant, shrub, or flower nursery without building; truck gardening;
roadside stand for sale in season; and livestock raising and feeding, but not
including fur farms, commercial animal feed lots and kennels.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords secondary access to abutting
property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities available which
is occupied as a residence by a single family. Includes buildings with 2 or
more dwelling units and efficiency units.
   AUTOMOBILE CAMP. Land or premises used or intended for occupancy by campers
traveling by automobile or otherwise or for occupancy by trailers or movable
buildings, tents, rooms or sleeping quarters of any kind.
   AUTO OR MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where 1 or more
unlicensed motor vehicles, or the remains thereof, are kept for the purpose of
dismantling, wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sale as
scrap, storage or abandonment. (See also JUNK YARD.)
   BANNERS AND PENNANTS. Attention getting devices which resemble flags and are
of a paper, cloth or plastic-like consistency.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground and having ½ or
less of its floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining
ground.
   BOARDINGHOUSE. A building other than a motel or hotel where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodgings are
provided for 3 or more unrelated persons, but not to exceed 10 persons.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure used solely for the storage of boats or boating
equipment.
   BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council in accordance with
procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable the
Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multi-family dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to the provisions of the Minnesota Condominium Law.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which serves food in or on
disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
   COOPERATIVE (HOUSING). A multi-family dwelling owned and maintained by the
residents. The entire structure and real property is under common ownership as
contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units are under separate
individual occupant ownership.
   DAY CARE - HOME. A family dwelling in which foster care, supervision and
training for children of school or preschool age out of their own home is
provided.
   DAY CARE - GROUP NURSERY. A service provided to the public, in which
children of school or preschool age are cared for during established business
hours.
   DEPARTMENT STORE. A business which is conducted under a single owner's name
wherein a variety of unrelated merchandise and services are housed, enclosed
and are exhibited and sold directly to the customer for whom the goods and
services are furnished.
   DOG KENNEL. Any place where 3 dogs or more over 6 months of age are boarded,
bred and/or offered for sale, except a veterinary clinic.
   DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to the
customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or
where fast service to the automobile occupants is the principal service
offered.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or 1 or more portions thereof occupied or intended
to be occupied exclusively for human habitation, but not including rooms in
motels, hotels, nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins, or
trailer coaches. A dwelling shall not be interpreted to include lodging rooms.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling at 1 or
more sides by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling which is entirely surrounded by open space on
the same lot.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels or on
flatbed or other trailers and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied
as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy except for minor and incidental
unpacking and assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or
permanent foundations, connections to utilities and the like. A travel trailer
is not to be considered as a mobile home.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A shared structure having more than 2 dwelling units
contiguous to each other only by the sharing of one or more common walls or
ceiling/floor (without an interior connection) with each unit having a separate
entrance/exit designed exclusively for occupancy by more than 2 families living
independently of each other.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A structure having 1 dwelling unit designed
exclusively for occupancy by 1 family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A shared structure having 2 dwelling units contiguous
to each other only by the sharing of 1 or more common walls or ceiling/floor
(without an interior connection) with each unit having a separate entrance/exit
designed exclusively for occupancy by 2 families living independently of each
other.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants, or other similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith;
but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. An individual, or 2 or more persons each related by blood, marriage,
or adoption living together as a single housekeeping unit, or a group of not
more than 4 persons not so related, maintaining a common household.
   FARM. A tract of land which is principally used for commercial agriculture,
all of which is owned and operated by a single family, farm corporation,
individual or corporation.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in inundation
of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOR AREA. The net usable floor area of the various floors.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the principle
building which is intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles
of the family or families resident upon the premises, and in which no business
service or industry is carried on; provided that not more than one-half of the
space may be rented for the private vehicles of persons not resident on the
premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles, or where any such vehicles are kept for renumeration or hire
and in which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to
the principal use.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the repair or maintenance of motor
vehicles but not including factory assembly of such vehicles, auto wrecking
establishments or junk yards.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A gainful occupation carried on in the home when engaged in
by the person or persons residing in the dwelling.
   HOTEL. A building having provision for 6 or more guests in which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient
or permanent guests or both, and in which ingress and egress to and from all
rooms is made through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in
charge.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. A permitted, accessory or conditional use allowed in the “I”
District.
   JUNK YARD. An area where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed, dissembled or handled,
including but not limited to scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
products, bottles and used building materials. Storage of such material in
conjunction with a permitted manufacturing process when within an enclosed area
or building shall not be included. Such use shall not include organic waste or
material.
   LOT. A parcel, piece, or portion of land designated by metes and bounds,
registered land survey, plat, or other means and separated from other parcels
or portions by said description which is recorded or to be recorded in the
office of the County Register of Deeds.
   LOT AREA. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on 2 or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot, including through lots.
   LOT LINE. A lot line is the property line bounding a lot except that where
any portion of a lot extends into the public right-of-way or a proposed public
right-of-way, the line of such public right-of-way shall be the lot line for
applying this chapter.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street, and in the case of a corner lot it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street except that a corner lot in a non-residential area
shall be deemed to have frontage on both streets.
   LOT LINE, REAR. That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the rear lot line is less than 10 feet in length or if the lot forms a point
at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line 10 feet in length within the
lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts more than one
street.
   LOT OF RECORD. A platted lot or metes and bounds parcel which has been
recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds prior to the adoption of this
chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured parallel to the front lines of the lot at the setback line.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A manufactured, transportable, single-family dwelling
subject to tax or registration and suitable for year-round occupancy and
containing water supply, waste disposal, and electric conveniences designed for
attachments to outside systems. Its design allows manufactured homes to be
mounted on wheels and used as a conveyance on highways and streets.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. An approved manufactured home park which has
underground utility service to each site and also rest room and washing
facilities as specified by the state.
   MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. All manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of products and materials that may emit objectionable and
offensive influences beyond the lot on which the use is located.
   MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of products and materials, provided such use
will not generate offensive odors,  glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations, or
other objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which the use is
located.
   MASSAGE THERAPY. The scientific manipulation of the soft tissues of the body
for the purpose of normalizing those tissues and consists of manual techniques
that include applying fixed or movable pressure, holding, and/or causing
movement of or to the body to enhance health and well-being.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MODULAR HOME. A manufactured, single-family dwelling, suitable for year-
round occupancy and containing water supply, water disposal and electrical
conveniences designed for attachment to outside systems, all constructed in
conformance with building, fire and plumbing codes.
   MOTOR COURTS, MOTOR HOTEL or MOTEL. A building or group of buildings other
than a hotel used primarily as a temporary residence of a motorist.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A retail place of business engaged primarily in the sale
of motor fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services
generally associated with the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles.
These may include sale of petroleum products, sale and servicing of tires,
batteries, automotive accessories, and replacement items, washing and
lubrication services, and the performance of minor automotive maintenance and
repair.
   MUNICIPAL BUILDING. A building or structure owned by the city.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. Any structure or use which on the effective
date of this chapter does not, even though lawfully established, conform to the
applicable conditions if the structure or use was to be erected under the
guidance of this chapter.
   NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of children or the aged or
infirmed or place of rent for those suffering bodily disorder. Such a home does
not contain equipment for surgical care or for the treatment of disease or
injury, nor does it include maternity care for care for mental illnesses or
infirmities.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley, or way,
in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. Such space shall be of such size as to accommodate 1
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease,
or trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
   OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE. Recreational use particularly oriented to and
utilizing the character of an area; including biking and riding trails,
primitive campsites, campgrounds, waysides, parks and recreational areas.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage of any material outside of a building.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store 1 automobile which has
adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress of an automobile.
   PARTY WALL. A common wall which divides 2 independent structures.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Criterion established to control noise, odor, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PERSON. An individual, to include both male and female, and shall also
extend and be applied to bodies political and corporate and to partnership and
other unincorporated associations.
   PET GROOMING. The grooming of domestic animals, as defined in §
92.01 of this code. The keeping of animals at a pet groomer shall be short-
term, shall be incidental to the grooming, and shall not include overnight
boarding
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A zoning designation regulated under §
153.055 allowing a tract of land to be planned and developed as a unit rather
than an aggregate of houses or other structures on individual lots.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Stacy.
   PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state, or other governmental units.
   PUBLIC WATER. Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public
purpose, as defined by Minnesota Statutes. However, no lake, pond or floodage
of less than 10 acres in size and no river or stream having a total drainage
area less than 2 square miles. Such public water shall be determined by the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources. Any body of water created by a
private user where there was no previous shoreland for a designated private use
as approved by the Commission of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources
is not included as a public water.
   RECREATIONAL FIELD OR BUILDING. An area of land, water, or any building in
which amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or semi-
public use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theatre, whether provision
is made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course, arena,
baseball park, stadium, circus or gymnasium is a recreation field or building
for the purpose of this chapter.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motor vehicle licensed for on-
street use, non-motorized vehicle, or those vehicles towed by a motor vehicle,
and shall include but not be limited to: travel trailers, including those with
telescope or fold down; chassis-mounted campers; motor homes; tent trailers;
sleeping campers; converted buses that provide temporary human living quarters;
jet skis; waverunners; snow mobiles; boats; ATVs; motocross bikes; and the
like. Any recreational vehicle stored and/or parked on a trailer is considered
1 recreational vehicle. A CLASS I RECREATIONAL VEHICLE measures less than 8
feet in height overall and 22 feet in length overall. A CLASS II RECREATIONAL
VEHICLE measures 8 feet or greater in height overall and/or 22 feet or greater
in length overall, but shall not be any longer than 40 feet overall.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota, and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100 year
recurrence interval.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food in or on non-disposable
dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths within the
building.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street
right-of-way or property line. Distances are to be measured perpendicularly
from the property line to the most outwardly extended portion of the structure
at ground level.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any system for the collection, treatment, and
dispersion of sewage, including but not limited to septic tanks, soil
absorption systems, and drain fields.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   SPECIAL USE PERMIT. A permit specially and individually granted by the
Board, after a public hearing thereon by the Planning Commission, for any use
listed as a special use in any district.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there is no floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted
as a STORY.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property and shall also include avenue, highway or road.
   STREET WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way, measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground; or attached to something having a location on the
ground. This shall include signs.
   STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING. Any structure which is legally existing upon the
effective date of this chapter, which would not conform to the applicable
regulations if the structure were to be erected under the provisions of this
chapter.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as bearing
walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of any parcel of land into 2 or more lots, blocks,
and/or sites, with or without streets or highways and includes resubdivision.
   TATTOO SHOP. A place of business where tattoos are applied, a tattoo is a
form of body modification where a design is made by inserting ink, dyes and
pigments, either indelible or temporary, into the dermis layer of the skin to
change the pigment.
   TOWNHOUSE. At least 2 1- or 2-story single-family dwellings having 1 or more
walls in common, oriented and designed so each dwelling has separate,
individual front and rear entrances from the outside.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle or device licensed for on-street use, designed for
carrying property on its own structure and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
A CLASS I TRAILER measures less than 8 feet in overall height and less than 22
feet in overall length, measured from the hitch to the rear tail lights. A
CLASS II TRAILER measures 8 feet or greater in height overall and/or 22 feet or
greater in length overall, but shall not be any longer than 40 feet overall.
Any recreational vehicle stored and/or parked on a trailer is considered 1
recreational vehicle.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized, or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the performance standards of this chapter.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. Use of land, buildings or structures legally existing at
the time of the adoption of this chapter which does not comply with all the
regulations of this chapter or any amendments hereto governing the zoning
district in which such use is located.
   USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the open use.
   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes and objectives of a particular district which conforms with all
requirements, regulations and performance standards of such a district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
   USE, SPECIAL. The occupations, vocations, skills, arts, businesses,
professions, or uses specifically designated in each zoning use district, which
for their respective conduct, exercise or performance in such designated use
districts may require reasonable but special, peculiar, unusual or
extraordinary limitations, facilities, plans, structures, thoroughfares
condition, modification or regulations in such use district for the promotion
or preservation of the general public welfare, health, convenience or safety
therein and in the village and therefore may be permitted in such use district
only by a special use permit.
   USEABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both; available and accessible to and
useable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guest. Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreation purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute
useable open space.
   VARIANCE. The waiving action of the literal provisions of the zoning
ordinance to instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship because of physical circumstances unique to the individual property
under consideration.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage materials or equipment within an enclosed building
as a principal use.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WATERSHED MANAGEMENT OR FLOOD CONTROL STRUCTURE. A dam, floodwall, wing-dam,
dike, diversion channel, or an artificially deepened or widened stream channel
following the same or approximately the same course as the natural channel, or
any other structure for altering or regulating the natural flow condition of a
river or stream. The term watershed management or flood control structure does
not include pilings, retaining walls, gablon baskets, rock riprap, or other
facilities intended primarily to prevent erosion and which must be authorized
by period from the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to
another business that in turn sells to the final customer.
   YARD. An open space on a lot, which is occupied, and unobstructed by a
structure from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly permitted
in this chapter. A yard shall extend along a lot line and at right angles to
such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which such lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the zoning
jurisdiction for which the regulations and requirements governing use are
uniform.
(Prior Code, § 901.04) (Am. Ord. 2001-8-1, passed - -2001; Am. Ord. 2013-5-1,
passed 6-11-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-3-2, passed 3-16-2015; Am. Ord. 2018-9-4,
passed 9-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-11-3,
passed 11-10-2020)
§ 153.005 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals and welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions of this chapter are comparable with conditions
imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution, or regulation, the
regulations which are more restrictive shall prevail.
   (C)   No structure may be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
altered, and no structure or land may be used for any purpose nor in any manner
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   No cellar, garage, tent, trailer, basement or accessory building shall
at any time be used as a dwelling unit except mobile homes as regulated in this
chapter.
   (E)   Public utility services, erected, constructed, altered or maintained
by public utilities or by governmental departments or commissioners, because of
their nature and function, are permitted uses in all districts, subject to the
application and granting of a special use permit where substations or other
structures are to be built.
(Prior Code, § 901.05)
§ 153.006 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter establishes separate and distinct districts,
each of which is appropriate for certain specified uses and conditions. It is
the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of existing
structures, uses, and lots that do not conform to the requirements of the
district in which they are located and to specify the requirements,
circumstances, and conditions under which the nonconforming structure, use, or
lot may be continued. In furtherance of the goals and purpose of this chapter,
it is also the intent of this section that all nonconforming uses shall
eventually be eliminated or made to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B)(1), a
nonconforming use shall not be enlarged, moved, or extended to occupy a greater
area of land, but may continue at the size and intensity and in the manner of
operation existing upon the date of its nonconformity.
         (a)   A nonconforming use may be enlarged or extended to occupy a
greater area of land if any such enlargement or extension is required by the
laws, rules, or ordinances of the county, the state, or the United States of
America, or is necessary in order to comply with a written recommendation
directed specifically to that use by any such governmental authority or an
enforcement agency thereof having the authority to regulate the subject matter
of the written recommendation, and if any such requirement or written
recommendation relates to the health, safety, and/or welfare of the general
public. Allowed enlargements or extensions pursuant to this division (B)(1)(a)
include, but are not limited to, those done to comply with the requirements of
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA).
         (b)   A nonconforming use allowed to enlarge or extend pursuant to
division (B)(1)(a) above may also enlarge or extend to regain any lost capacity
to function in the manner the use is conducted, which capacity was lost as the
result of compliance with any such law, rule, ordinance, or written
recommendation of any such governmental authority. However, the recaptured
capacity shall not exceed the area, size, height, or intensity of use of the
original such capacity lost as a result of the compliance.
         (c)   A nonconforming use may be reconfigured if, in the discretion of
the city, the reconfiguration would lessen the nonconformity, abate nuisances,
and protect the public health, safety, and welfare. If a use is reconfigured,
the property owner must enter into an agreement with the city, drafted by the
City Attorney, stating, among other things, the purpose of the reconfiguration
and that the nonconforming use will remain a legal nonconforming use.
      (2)   A nonconforming use may be continued through repair, replacement,
restoration, maintenance, or improvement, but not expansion except as set forth
in division (B)(1) above. When any nonconforming use has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to any nonconforming use.
      (3)   A nonconforming use may be changed to lessen the nonconformity of
that use. Thereafter the use may not be so altered as to increase the
nonconformity.
      (4)   A nonconforming use shall not be re-established if discontinued for
a continuous 1-year period, but shall remain in conformance with the provisions
of this chapter, as amended.
      (5)   Any nonconforming use for which a license, permit, or other
evidence of city approval was lawfully issued prior to the nonconformity may be
conducted in accordance with the terms of the city’s mode of approval, provided
that the use is started within 60 days of the date and has not been abandoned
for a period of more than 120 days. The use shall thereafter be a legally
nonconforming use.
   (C)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   A vacant nonconforming lot may be allowed as a buildable lot
provided that all the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The lot is of record;
         (b)   No owner of any abutting lot has any potential ownership
interest in the nonconforming lot through any relationship of blood, marriage,
or business with any owner of the nonconforming lot;
         (c)   The lot was, within 1 year of the latest application for a
building permit, previously occupied by a principal or accessory structure
actually used for the same purpose or activity or in the same manner as the
structure for which the permit is sought; or the proposed structure will meet
all setback requirements which currently apply to the lot; and
         (d)   All other applicable requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   Nonconforming lots containing a principal structure may add a
permitted accessory structure provided that the accessory structure will meet
all minimum setback requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   Additions to principal or accessory structures located on
nonconforming lots may be permitted provided that any such addition will meet
all minimum setback requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Nonconforming principal structures shall not be enlarged or altered
in a way which increases their nonconformity. Nonconforming accessory
structures which are totally within a required yard setback area shall not be
enlarged or expanded in any way. Notwithstanding, a nonconforming structure may
be reconfigured if, in the discretion of the city, the reconfiguration would
lessen the nonconformity, abate nuisances, and protect the public health,
safety, and welfare. If a nonconforming structure is reconfigured, the property
owner must enter into an agreement with the city, drafted by the City Attorney,
stating, among other things, the purpose of the reconfiguration and that the
nonconforming structure will remain a legal nonconforming structure.
      (2)   If any nonconforming structure has deteriorated or is damaged by
fire or other peril to the extent of 50% or more of its market value as
determined by the county assessor and no building permit has been applied for
within 180 days of when the property is damaged, any subsequent rebuilding or
replacing of the structure shall conform to the terms of this chapter. Any
building which is damaged to an extent of less than 50% of its value may be
restored to its former extent if it is reconstructed within 12 months after the
date of the damage. Estimates of the extent of damage shall be made by the
building official.
      (3)   If a nonconforming structure is moved for any distance whatsoever,
it shall conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located
after it is moved, except as stated in division (D)(1) above.
      (4)   Normal repairs and maintenance necessary to keep a nonconforming
structure in sound condition shall be permitted.
      (5)   Replacement, restoration, and improvement to a nonconforming
structure shall be permitted.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in
safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe by the building official,
provided that a building permit has been applied for within 180 days of when
the property is declared unsafe.
      (7)   Any nonconforming structure for which a building permit was
lawfully issued prior to the nonconformity may be completed in accordance with
the approved plans, provided that construction is started within 60 days of the
date, is not abandoned for a period of more than 120 days, and continues to
completion within 2 years. The structure and use shall thereafter be a legally
nonconforming structure and use.
      (8)   The city may impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit
that is applied for within 180 days after a structure is destroyed by fire or
other peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its market value or is
declared unsafe in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent
property.
   (E)   Nonconforming site improvements.
      (1)   Site improvements are those works or facilities required by this
chapter for the use of the site or placed on the property at the option of the
use occupying the land. Such improvements might include, by way of example,
parking lots, landscaping, accessory buildings, trash enclosures, and
screening.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided in division (E)(4) below,
nonconforming site improvements may continue to serve a principal use so long
as no certificate of occupancy is required for the property pursuant to the
city code.
      (3)   A certificate of occupancy may be issued for a portion of a
multiple-occupancy building without bringing the existing site improvements for
the entire building into compliance with this chapter so long as any
nonconformity is not increased. If a multiple-occupancy building becomes
completely vacant, its site improvements must be brought into compliance with
this chapter prior to any future occupancy. This section shall not imply the
loss of any vested rights expressed in this chapter with regard to
nonconforming structures.
      (4)   Upon any change in occupancy, nonconforming paved parking areas may
continue to be utilized without improvement if the number of parking places
supplied remains adequate pursuant to the guidelines set forth in this chapter,
and the paved surface has not, in the city’s judgment, deteriorated so as to be
economically beyond repair. If the parking surface cannot be economically
repaired for the new occupancy, then the parking lot surface must be replaced
or otherwise brought into compliance with this chapter. Unpaved parking areas,
when required, must be brought into compliance with this chapter prior to the
issuance of any certificate of occupancy required pursuant to the city code
because of a change of use.
      (5)   When expansion of an existing site improvement is required, the
newly constructed portion of the site improvement shall meet all of the
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 153.007 FARMING OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Continued farm operations. All farm operations currently in existence
will be permitted to continue operation subject to the following conditions:
agriculture, excepting commercial animal farms, fur farms, kennels, and poultry
farms, but including truck gardening and other horticultural uses, is permitted
use in the district in which an existing operation is located, provided that
any new private stable or other new building in which farm animals are kept
shall be a distance of 60 feet or more from any other lot in any residential
district.
   (B)   Sale of products. Limited sales of products produced may be conducted
on the premises from a roadside stand, but such stand shall not exceed 12 feet
in height or 500 square feet in floor area, and no portion of any such stand
shall be located or erected nearer than 40 feet from any street right-of-way.
   (C)   Conditional use permits. The Council may require any farm operation to
secure a conditional use permit to continue the operations in the event the
farming operations are so intensive as to constitute a feed lot or an
industrial type use consisting of the compounding, processing, and packaging of
products for wholesale or retail trade and further that such operations may
tend to become a permanent industrial type operation (that cannot be terminated
as can a normal farming operation).
   (D)   Unsafe buildings. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent
the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part
thereof declared to be unsafe by the official charged with protecting the
public safety, upon order of such official.
(Prior Code, § 901.07)
§ 153.008 STREET LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A) The location of street lighting in commercial districts shall comply
with the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES) standards and is subject to
review and approval by the City Engineer.
   (B)   Residential street lighting fixtures shall be LED or other energy
efficient fixtures approved by the City Council. All poles and fixtures used in
new residential districts shall meet city standards and shall be approved by
the City Engineer.
   (C)   The standards in this section shall apply to all future developments
and subdivisions and shall be retroactively applied to all subdivisions in
which street lighting has not been installed as of the effective date of the
ordinance set forth in this chapter. In the event pre-existing street lighting
is changed, improved, or converted after the adoption of this section, the
modified street lighting must be completed in conformance with this section.
(Ord. 2003-7-4, passed - -2003; Am. Ord. 2016-11-3, passed 11-9-2016)
§ 153.009 RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREAS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for areas to be
used for recreational camping which will not detract from surrounding land uses
or natural resources, and provide for the health and safety of the public using
these areas.
   (B)   License required. No person, corporation, partnership, firm or other
entity shall operate a recreational camping area unless a valid license issued
by the Minnesota Department of Health for the current year has been obtained
and is in the possession of the operator and posted in a conspicuous place in
the office of the recreational camping area.
   (C)   Conditional use permit required. A conditional use permit shall be
required for the construction or operation of a recreational camping area. All
conditional uses shall be subject to the requirements of this section and §
153.189. Each conditional use application shall include the submission of a
site plan drawn to scale. When construction costs exceed $30,000, plans must be
prepared by a registered engineer, architect, or land surveyor. The site plan
shall include the following:
      (1)   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants; or names
and addresses of the partners, if the applicant is a partnership; or the names
and addresses of the officers, if the applicant is a corporation; and the name
and address of the project developer.
      (2)   A legal description of the site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which it is proposed to operate and maintain a recreational camping area.
      (3)   The proposed and existing sanitary facilities on and about said
site, lot, field, or tract of land and the proposed construction or alteration
of sanitary facilities including toilets, urinals, sinks, wash basins, slop
sinks, showers, drains, and laundry facilities; source of water supply; and
sewage, garbage and waste removal. A detailed description of maintenance
procedures, grounds supervision and method of fire protection shall also be
submitted.
      (4)   The proposed method of lighting the structures and site, lot,
field, or tract of land upon which said recreational camping area is to be
located.
      (5)   Road construction plans and specifications, including the location
and size of all streets abutting the site and all driveways from such streets
to the recreational camping area.
      (6)   Location, size, and characteristics of each camping site/lot.
      (7)   Designation of the calendar months of the year which applicant will
operate said recreational camping area and details as to whether all of the
area will be developed at once or whether it will be developed a portion at a
time.
      (8)   Plans and drawings for new construction or alteration, including
buildings, water systems, wells, plumbing and sewage disposal systems, surface
drainage, electrical service, and gas service.
   (D)   Camping area spacing requirements. Vehicle and structure spacing
requirements shall be consistent with the Minnesota Department of Health Rules
Chapter 4630.
   (E)   All utilities shall be underground and there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes.
   (F)   Water supply. The water supply system shall be consistent with the
Minnesota Department of Health Rules Chapter 4630.
   (G)   Sewage disposal. The sewage disposal system shall be consistent with
the Minnesota Department of Health Rules Chapter 4630.
   (H)   Toilet, bathing and laundry facilities. The schedule of facilities to
be provided in central buildings shall be consistent with the Minnesota
Department of Health Rules Chapter 4630.
   (I)   Plumbing. All systems of plumbing shall be installed in accordance
with the Minnesota Board of Health regulations and the provisions of the
Minnesota Plumbing Code.
   (J)   Lighting. All lighting shall be consistent with the Minnesota
Department of Health Rules Chapter 4630 and the State Electrical Code.
   (K)   Garbage and refuse - handling and disposal. Garbage and refuse
handling and disposal shall be consistent with the Minnesota Department of
Health Rules Chapter 4630 and the Chisago County Solid Waste Ordinance.
   (L)   Caretaker/operator duties. A responsible attendant or caretaker shall
be in charge of every recreational camping area at all times and the duty of
said attendant or caretaker shall be to maintain the park, its facilities, and
records; and to keep the facilities and the equipment in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition.
(Ord. 2024-9-11, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.010 RURAL RETAIL TOURISM BUSINESS.
   (A)   Purpose. In accordance with the stated goals of the city’s
Comprehensive Plan, it is the purpose of this section to:
      (1)   Preserve and celebrate Stacy's archaeological properties, rural and
agricultural heritage, and historical landscapes;
      (2)   Recognize scenic features, exceptional rural ambiance, and historic
sites as desirable local amenities which will draw outside revenue from
visitors, that is vital to the local economy;
      (3)   Enhance the city's appeal to visitors who are drawn to its rural
atmosphere;
      (4)   Provide opportunities for new economic growth;
      (5)   Assist the city's citizens in the transition from primarily
agricultural land uses to an expanded variety of rural business opportunities;
and
      (6)   Accommodate and acknowledge existing areas of low-density
residential use, agricultural use and open space use.
   (B)   Conditional use permit or interim use permit required.
      (1)   Conditional use permit.
         (a)   Rural retail tourism business is allowed with a conditional use
permit (CUP) within the Rural Residential (RR) zoning district and located
within the Rural Business Overlay (RBO) as identified on the official land use
plan contained within the city's adopted Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   Rural retail tourism businesses that require a CUP shall include
small scale, low impact uses such as farm or other historical heritage
attractions; crafting, weddings, receptions, bed and breakfasts; craft/antique
shops; unique local venues providing for the sale and serving of locally
produced raw and/or value-added agricultural products, goods and services and
other reasonably related merchandise; and other uses determined by the city to
be similar in nature and scope.
      (2)   Interim use permit.
         (a)   Rural retail tourism business is allowed with an interim use
permit (IUP) within the Rural Residential (RR) zoning district and located
within the Rural Business Overlay (RBO) as identified on the official land use
plan contained within the city's adopted Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   Rural retail tourism businesses that require an interim use
permit shall include small scale, low impact uses such as small scale, low
impact special events or music festivals, corn mazes, holiday celebrations and
harvest festivals; and other uses determined by the city to be similar in
nature and scope.
   (C)   The terms SMALL-SCALE and LOW-IMPACT shall be construed to refer to
land uses which:
      (1)   Do not create an excessive demand upon existing services or
amenities;
      (2)   Are screened or able to be screened adequately, or are sufficiently
separated from adjacent residential development or residentially used land, to
prevent undue negative impact to nearby properties;
      (3)   Will not have an appearance that is inconsistent or incompatible
with the surrounding area;
      (4)   Will not cause a traffic hazard or undue congestion; and
      (5)   Will not negatively impact the neighborhood by intrusion of noise,
glare, odor, or other adverse effects.
   (D)   All rural retail tourism businesses shall meet and follow the
standards for a conditional use permit as defined within §
153.189, or interim use permit as defined in §
153.090. The following additional information shall be required for all rural
retail tourism businesses:
      (1)   Narrative describing how proposed use is consistent with the
definition of rural retail tourism businesses, and the adopted Comprehensive
Plan;
      (2)   Hours of operation;
      (3)   Proposed access, driveway design and any necessary road
improvements;
      (4)   Trip counts during hours of operation, and estimates during a.m.
and p.m. peak hours. (if applicable);
      (5)   Proposed signage and site lighting;
      (6)   Proposed parking areas with number of stalls identified; and
      (7)   If a new use, percolation tests and designated SSTS area identified
on a site plan and submitted to Building Official for general acceptance.
   (E)   If a structure(s) is planned to be retrofitted for the business, a
plan for upgrading the SSTS system or structure for compliance with current
code requirements must be submitted prior to permit approval. All existing
buildings proposed for use in association with the business shall be certified
by an architect or engineer to be in compliance with current structural
standards.
   (F)   If the proposed rural retail tourism business is located on a property
with a principal residential structure, division (G) accessory structures and
uses shall be followed.
   (G)   Accessory structures and uses.
      (1)   For lots zoned RR-A, the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   For lots or parcels less than 10 acres no more than 3 accessory
structures shall be permitted.
         (b)   For lots or parcels of at least 10 acres or larger, no more than
1 accessory structure per 2 acres of land.
         (c)   The maximum combined footprint for accessory structures on any
lot or parcel shall be 2% of the lot or parcel acreage or 2,000 square feet,
whichever is greater.
         (d)   The height of the accessory structure shall not exceed 35 feet
and by 1 story in height, or 2 stories with the second story consisting
entirely of unfinished storage space.
      (2)   For lots located within the Rural Residential I (RR-I) or Rural
Residential II (RR-II) districts the following standards shall apply:
         (a)   No more than 2 accessory structures shall be permitted per lot.
         (b)   The maximum combined footprint for accessory structures shall be
2% of the lot or parcel acreage or 2,000 square feet, whichever is greater.
         (c)   The height elevation of any accessory building shall not exceed
the height elevation of the principal structure.
         (d)   Agricultural buildings, per the definition in this chapter,
shall not be permitted within the RR-I, RR-II and UG zoning districts.
         (e)   The height of the accessory structure shall not exceed the
height of the principal structure.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and structures that do not require a building
permit pursuant to division (G)(7), shall be located 5 feet or more from
property lines, except as otherwise provided for in §
153.032. The setbacks for accessory structures with a footprint greater than or
equal to 5,000 square feet shall be established by the Planning Commission
prior to the issuance of a building permit.
      (4)   No sanitary facilities are permitted within an accessory building
prior to the construction of the principal structure, and no sanitary
facilities shall be permitted within any accessory structure where they are
intended to facilitate human habitation.
      (5)   No accessory building or structure other than a fence, or a
temporary construction office, shall be permitted on any lot without a
principal structure.
      (6)   Accessory buildings larger than 120 square feet shall require a
certificate of compliance and building permit.
      (7)   Garages. A detached garage, when there is no garage attached to the
principal building, which is 960 square feet or less in size shall not count as
1 of the accessory buildings or in calculating the square footage limitation as
long as the detached garage exterior matches the exterior materials, design and
color of the principal building.
      (8)   The architectural design and appearance of all accessory buildings,
and structures shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   When located in front of the principal structure the following
standards shall apply: For parcels zoned Rural Residential - Agricultural (RR-
A), Rural Residential I (RR-I), or for properties which are greater than 5
acres in size and zoned Rural Residential II (RR-II) the accessory building
shall meet the following standards: The exterior appearance and color of the
accessory building shall have boxed eaves and match the architecture of the
principal dwelling unit located on the lot.
         (b)   When located behind the principal structure the following
standards shall apply:
            1.   For properties zoned Rural Residential - Agricultural (RR-A),
or for properties which are greater than 5 acres in size and zoned Rural
Residential II (RR-II) the accessory building shall meet the following
standards: The exterior appearance and color of the accessory building shall
match the general architecture of the principal dwelling unit located on the
lot.
            2.   For properties zoned Rural Residential I (RR-I), or for
properties which are less than 5 acres in size and zoned Rural Residential II
(RR-II) the accessory building shall meet the following standards:
               i.   The exterior appearance and color of the accessory building
shall have boxed eaves and match the architecture of the principal dwelling
unit located on the lot.
               ii.   The accessory structure elevation shall not exceed that of
the principal structure.
      (9)   Commercial and industrial accessory structures located within the
Rural Transit Center (RTC). The following additional standards shall apply to
commercial and industrial accessory structures: Accessory structure standards
shall be calculated consistent with division (A), where the primary location of
business operation is deemed the principal structure, provided the accessory
structures are used for storage related to the principal use of the property.
No separate business is allowed from any accessory structure. The accessory
structure(s) shall be placed to the rear of the principal building and must
conform with applicable setback requirements.
      (10)   The commercial storage of recreational structures, including fish
houses, shall be considered a commercial use and subject to the requirements
for commercial uses.
      (11)   No land shall be subdivided so as to have a larger building and/or
exceed the total number of buildings as permitted by this section. The square
footage of a building is calculated based upon the footprint of the foundation
or main floor, whichever is larger, and includes any overhangs which are
supported by posts or additional foundation support.
      (12)   No garage, cellar, tent, trailer, basement or accessory structure
shall be used as a dwelling unit, except temporary manufactured homes as
regulated in this section.
      (13)   Temporary structures must be securely anchored and meet all
required setbacks, and shall not count as part of the allowable square footage
per lot. Temporary structures that due to deterioration or damage no longer
provide the use for which they were intended must be removed.
      (14)   All in-ground pools and permanent above-ground pools shall be
considered an accessory use and shall be subject to the same conditions and
regulations as defined herein, but shall not count towards the maximum
allowable square footage per lot, total number allowed, or maximum allowable
square footage as defined within this section. Construction of pools shall be
subject to the most recent regulations as defined in the Minnesota State
Building Code.
   (H)   Rural retail tourism businesses shall be shown to have a unique and
demonstrable relationship with its region, and its history, culture,
traditions, arts, crafts, lore, natural resources, or other features and
amenities, in accordance with the above stated purpose.
(Ord. 2024-9-12, passed 9-10-2024)
PROVISIONS AFFECTING ALL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.020 DISTRICTS CREATED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following districts shall be created:
      “R-l”   Single Family Residential District
      “R-2"   One and Two Family Residential District
      “R-3A”   Multiple Family Residential District - Townhomes
      “R-3B”   Multiple Family Residential District - Apartments
      “RR-I” Rural Residential I
      “RR-II” Rural Residential II
      “R-M”   Mobile Home Park District
      “CBD”   Central Business District
      “GB”   General Business District
      “RTC” Rural Transit Center District
      “I”   Industrial District
      “LI”   Light Industrial District
      “SL”   Shoreland District - This is an overlying district with provisions
superimposed on underlying district provisions.
      “PUD”   Planned Unit Development District
      “A”   Agricultural
      “RR-A” Rural Residential Agricultural
      “P”   Park District
      “OS”   Open Space
      “NRP” Natural Resource Preservation District
      Rural Business Overlay District
      Carlos Avery Overlay District
      Sunrise River Overlay District
(Prior Code, § 902.01) (Ord. 2005-5-1, passed 5-10-2005; Am. Ord. 2010-2-1,
passed 2-23-2010; Am. Ord. 2024-10-1, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.021 ZONING MAP.
   Boundaries of the above districts are hereby established as shown on that
certain map entitled “Zoning Map of the City of Stacy, Minnesota” which is
properly approved and filed in the office of the Clerk and hereinafter referred
to as the “Zoning Map.” The map and all of the notations, references, and other
information shown therein shall have the same force and effect as if fully set
down herein and are hereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
(Prior Code, § 902.02)
§ 153.022 ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundaries on the map are intended to follow street right-of-way
lines, street centerlines, or lot lines unless such boundary line is otherwise
indicated on the map. In the case of unsubdivided property, or in any case
where street or lot lines are not used as boundaries, the district boundary
lines shall be determined by use of dimensions or the scale appearing on the
map.
(Prior Code, § 902.03)
§ 153.023 ANNEXED LAND.
   (A)   All land that is annexed to the city shall be placed in the A
(Agricultural) zoning district until such time as a study is completed to
determine the appropriate zoning district classification.
   (B)   A petitioner for annexation shall reimburse the city for all costs
incurred by the city in reviewing an annexation petition and in complying with
statutory requirements for hearing and notification thereof, including, but not
limited to, legal, engineering, planning, administrative, publication, special
meeting, filing fee, and postage costs. The city may require petitioner to
deposit an advancement of costs with the city at the time of the filing of the
petition for annexation in an amount determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 902.04) (Am. Ord. 2002-8-2, passed - -2002; Am. Ord. 2005-5-1,
passed 5-10-2005)
§ 153.024 USES NOT SPECIFICALLY PROVIDED FOR.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided for in this chapter, the following
shall apply to a use not provided for within a zoning district.
   (A)   Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically
permitted nor denied, the use shall be considered prohibited.
   (B)   The City Council or the Planning Commission, on their own initiative
or upon request, may utilize city staff to conduct a study to determine if a
particular use not addressed in this chapter is acceptable, and, if acceptable,
what zoning district would be most appropriate for such a use and the
appropriate conditions and standards relating to development of such a use.
   (C)   The City Council, Planning Commission, or affected property owner,
upon receipt of the staff’s study, may, if appropriate, initiate an amendment
to this chapter to provide for the particular use under consideration. A
decision by the Planning Commission or City Council that the proposed use is
not compatible for development within the city shall be accompanied by findings
in support of the decision.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009)
§ 153.025 LOT SIZE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements specified by district. Lot size requirements shall be
specified under each zoning district. In addition, the following regulations
shall be complied with.
   (B)   New lots. No use shall be established or hereinafter maintained on a
lot recorded after the effective date of this chapter which is of less area or
width than prescribed hereinafter for such use in the zoning district in which
it is to be located.
   (C)   Existing lots. In any residential district on a lot of record on the
effective date of this chapter, a single-family dwelling may be established,
provided that the measurements of the lot area and width are within 75% of the
requirements of this chapter, and provided that it can be demonstrated that a
proper and adequate sewage disposal system can be installed.
   (D)   Conversion of buildings. No building shall be converted so as to
conflict with, or further conflict with, the lot size requirements of the
district in which such building is located.
   (E)   Soil tests. In areas not served by public water and sewer disposal
systems, soil tests may be required to insure the sanitary function of private
on-site systems. If tests indicate that the soils are not adequate, the size of
the lot area will be increased in lot area until the size is deemed adequate.
   (F)   Reduced requirements if extensive park area. Where a proposed plat is
submitted incorporating an extensive park area as an integral part of the
subdivision and serving each lot within the plat, minimum lot area frontage,
and width requirements for the district in which the plat is located may be
reduced subject to conditions and approval of plans by the Planning Commission
and City Council. Land area taken from individual lots to create the park must
be over and above the percent of total land area required for park purposes
under the subdivision regulations.
   (G)   One building per lot. Except in the case of “Planned Unit
Developments” as provided for hereinafter, not more than one principal building
shall be located on a lot.
   (H)   Reduced requirements if planned unit development. Single-family
dwellings may be excluded from lot area and setback requirements, provided the
development is within an approved Planned Unit Development District as
regulated by  §  
153.055.
   (I)   Right-of-way not part of lot area. Public right-of-ways are not a part
of the buildable lot area and, therefore, shall not be included as part of the
minimum lot area required.
   (J)   Site plan required for non-conforming lots. Requests for building on a
nonconforming lot shall be accompanied by a site plan locating the proposed
well and septic tank and those abutting developed properties. The applicant
shall demonstrate that no pollution or health hazard will result.
(Prior Code, § 902.06) (Am. Ord. 2015-3-2, passed 3-16-2015; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3,
passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.026 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements specified by district. Yard requirements shall be set
forth under each zoning district. Front, side and rear yards shall be provided
in accordance with the regulations hereafter indicated and shall be
unobstructed from the ground level to the sky.
   (B)   Yard allocated to only one building. No required yard or other open
space allocated to a building or dwelling group shall be used to satisfy yard,
other open space, or minimum lot area requirements for any other building.
   (C)   Corner lots. On a corner lot, nothing shall be placed or allowed to
grow in such a manner as materially to impede vision between a height of 2-1/
2 and 10 feet above street level for a distance of 30 feet from intersecting
streets.
   (D)   Through lots. Through lots in any district shall have a required front
yard on each street.
   (E)   Conforming with neighboring setbacks. In any district where the
average depth of at least 2 existing front yards for buildings on lots within
150 feet of the lot in question and within the same block front is less or
greater than the minimum front yard depth required for the district, the
required front yard shall not be less than the average depth of such existing
front yards; however, the depth of a front yard in any “R” District shall not
be less than 20 feet from the right-of-way line of minor streets and 100 feet
from the centerline of major thoroughfares.
   (F)   Forty percent landscape requirement. In no event shall off-street
parking space, structures of any type, buildings, or other features cover more
than 60% of the lot area resulting in less than 40% landscaped in residential
districts.
   (G)   Exceptions to rear yard requirements. The following shall not be
considered to be encroachments on rear yard requirements: accessory structures
which are at least 10 feet from the rear lot line, recreational equipment,
laundry drying equipment, picnic tables, open arbors and trellises, balconies,
breezeways, porches, detached outdoor living rooms, and outdoor eating
facilities which are not less than 2 feet from any lot line.
   (H)   General exceptions to yard requirements. The following shall not be
considered to be encroachments on yard requirements:
      (1)   Chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels,
ornamental features, mechanical devices, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like,
provided they do not extend more than 2-1/2 feet;
      (2)   Fences which do not exceed 4 feet in height or as required
elsewhere in this chapter and terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or
similar structures, which do not extend above the height of the ground floor
level of the principal building or to a distance of less than 2 feet from any
lot line;
      (3)   Off-street parking spaces except as hereinafter regulated.
   (I)   Party walls. Buildings may be excluded from side yard requirements if
party walls are utilized or if the adjacent buildings are planned to be
constructed as an integral structure and a condition use permit is secured.
(Prior Code, § 902.07)
§ 153.027 BUILDING SIZE REGULATIONS.
The minimum ground floor area for new construction by type of dwelling and
number of bedrooms (BR) shall be as follows:
 
Dwelling                Efficiency 1BR 2BR 3BR Over 3BR
Single-family dwelling* N/A        860 860 860 **
Two-family dwelling     N/A        580 740 840 **
Multi-family dwelling   N/A        580 720 820 **
Elderly housing         440        520 720 820 **
Mobile home             N/A        600 700 700 **
 
   N/A   Not Allowed
   *   Single-family dwellings consisting of a 2 story structure use 75% of
ground floor area in table.
   **   Add 100 square feet for each additional bedroom over 3 bedrooms.
   * * *   Per unit.
(Prior Code, § 902.08) (Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.028 FOUNDATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Foundation width. All dwelling units shall have a foundation of at
least 24 feet in width which supports the exterior walls of the unit.
   (B)   Fifty percent foundation requirement. All dwelling units shall have a
permanent foundation under at least 50% of the ground floor area of the unit.
(Prior Code, § 902.09)
§ 153.029 ROOF PITCH REQUIREMENT.
   All dwelling units shall have a minimum roof pitch of at least a 3-foot
vertical drop over 12 feet of horizontal roof surface.
(Prior Code, § 902.10)
§ 153.030 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General restrictions. Height restrictions shall be 50 feet for farm
buildings; 35 feet for other structures, except as hereinafter modified.
   (B)   Exceptions. Height limitations shall be increased 100% when applied to
the following structures: church spires, belfries; cupolas and domes which do
not contain usable space; monuments; water towers; fire and hose towers;
observation towers; flag poles, chimneys; parapet walls extending not more than
3 feet above the limiting height of the building; cooling towers; elevator
penthouses; and farm silos.
   (C)   Conditional use permits. Heights in excess of those allowed under this
section and other sections shall be permitted only by conditional use permit
granted by resolution of the Council determining that such structure would not
be dangerous and would not adversely affect adjoining or adjacent property.
Conditional use permits granting increased building height shall require
setbacks from residential lots at least equal to the height, and the distance
between 2 principal buildings must be no less than one-half the sum of the
heights of the 2 structures.
   (D)   Sloping lots. On any lot sloping downhill from the street, which has
an average ground slope on that portion of the lot to be occupied by the main
building of 25% or more (measured in the general direction of the side lot
lines) an additional 12 feet of height may be permitted in such main building,
provided the lowest floor shall not be less than 10 feet below the average
established property line grades along the front of the lot. The floor of the
basement shall be considered the lowest floor and a cellar floor shall not be
counted.
(Prior Code, § 902.11)
§ 153.031 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Residential Zone parcels.
      (1)   No accessory building prior to principal building. No accessory
building or structure other than a fence or a temporary construction office
shall be permitted on any lot prior to the time of construction of the
principal building to which it is accessory except a private garage, which
prior to construction of the residence can be used only for storage purposes
continuing to and until the completion of the principal structure.
      (2)   Garage on side street. Whenever a garage is so designed that it is
to be entered directly from a side street or alley, the distance between the
doors and the lot line shall be 18 feet or more.
      (3)   Setback. The accessory building shall comply with the zoning
district in which it is located. An accessory building not requiring a building
permit shall be setback 10 feet from property lines. No accessory building
shall be located in the front yard regardless of size.
      (4)   Location. No accessory building shall be located in a front yard or
within a utility easement.
      (5)   Height. No accessory building shall exceed 20 feet in height.
      (6)   Size. No size limitation shall exist on accessory buildings except
that all accessory buildings shall meet the set back restrictions in the
underlying zoning district, shall meet the requirements of §
153.026(F), and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of
Chapter 153.
      (7)   Building permit required. A building permit shall be required for
any accessory building over 120 square feet in size.
      (8)   Design. The architectural design and appearance of all accessory
buildings and structures shall be consistent with the primary structure and
with surrounding buildings and structures, including similar material, material
design, color and texture.
      (9)   Tool sheds, garden sheds and similar buildings used for storage of
domestic supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment which are less than
120 square feet in size are not subject to the design requirements under
division (A)(8) of this section and shall be prefabricated, fully enclosed
structures, or structures constructed with fully enclosed wood or metal frames
with sheathing or siding, and shingled roofs.
   (B)   Agricultural Zoned parcels.
      (1)   No accessory building prior to principal building. No accessory
building or structure other than a fence or a temporary construction office
shall be permitted on any lot prior to the time of construction of the
principal building to which it is accessory except:
         (a)   A private garage, which prior to construction of the residence
can be used only for storage purposes continuing to until the completion of the
principle structure; and
         (b)   Structures to be used strictly for the purposes of farming
operations located on parcels actively farmed.
      (2)   Setback. Except as hereinafter modified, minimum setbacks for
accessory buildings shall be 40 feet from side lot lines and 50 feet from rear
property lines. The minimum setback for any accessory building used for animal
purposes shall be 60 feet from the side and rear property lines. No accessory
building shall be located within the front yard or within a utility easement.
      (3)   Height. No accessory building shall exceed 35 feet in height.
      (4)   Size. The total square footage of an accessory building or
combination of accessory buildings cannot exceed 6,000 square feet.
      (5)   Design. The architectural design and appearance of all buildings
and structures shall be consistent with surrounding buildings and structures.
The use of alternative materials including steel shall be permitted provided
that all buildings and structures are of a similar or complimentary color.
      (6)   Completion. The exterior finish and roofing materials of detached
accessory buildings must be completed within 1 year of the date that the
building permit was issued, provided it is consistently worked on.
   (C)   Commercially zoned parcels.
      (1)   No accessory building prior to principal building. No accessory
building or structure other than a fence or a temporary construction office
shall be permitted on any lot prior to the time of construction of the
principal building and can be used only for storage purposes continuing to and
until the completion of the principal structure.
      (2)   Accessory building on side street. Whenever an accessory building
is so designed that it is to be entered directly from a side street or alley,
the distance between the doors and the lot line shall be 18 feet or more.
      (3)   Setback. The accessory building shall comply with the zoning
district in which it is located. An accessory building not requiring a building
permit shall be setback 10 feet from side and rear property lines. No accessory
building shall be located in the front yard regardless of size.
      (4)   Location.  No accessory building shall be located in a front yard
or within a utility easement.
      (5)   Height. No accessory building shall exceed 20 feet in height.
      (6)   Size. No size limitation shall exist on accessory buildings except
that all accessory buildings shall meet the setback restrictions in the
underlying zoning district, shall meet the requirements of §
153.026(F), and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of
Chapter 153.
      (7)   Building permit required. A building permit shall be required for
any accessory building over 120 square feet in size.
      (8)   Design. The architectural design and appearance of all accessory
buildings and structures shall be consistent with the primary structure and
with surrounding buildings and structures, including similar material, material
design, color and texture.
      (9)   Tool sheds, garden sheds and similar buildings used for storage
which are less than 120 square feet in size are not subject to the design
requirements under division (C)(8) of this section and shall be prefabricated,
fully enclosed structures, or structures constructed with fully enclosed wood
or metal frames with sheathing or siding, and shingled roofs.
   (D)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city
opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2014-8-2, passed 8-13-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-2-1, passed 2-9-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-8-2, passed 8-23-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-
11-1, passed 11-9-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-12-8, passed 12-8-2020)
§ 153.032 FENCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. A fence shall be defined as any partition, structure, wall,
or gate erected to serve as a dividing marker, enclosure, physical barrier, or
visual barrier.
   (B)   Materials. All fences built or maintained shall be constructed of
materials capable of providing a finished appearance on the outward side
visible to the public. All materials used to construct the fence shall be sound
materials, resistant to rot, and capable of accepting and maintaining a
visually attractive appearance. Fences shall be constructed of the following
materials:
      (1)   Wood;
      (2)   Simulated wood;
      (3)   Chain link;
      (4)   Decorative brick or stone;
      (5)   Wrought iron or aluminum designed to simulate wrought iron;
      (6)   Split rail;
      (7)   Vinyl; or
      (8)   Other materials or fence types as approved by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Location and height in residential districts. In residential
districts, fences may be constructed up to a height of 3 1/2 feet and placed
anywhere on a lot including the front yard following traffic visibility
requirements in division (D) of this section. Any fence over 3 1/2 feet and up
to a maximum of 6 feet in height may be located on the rear property line and
side property lines, as long as it meets the requirements of division (G) of
this section, but may not extend beyond the front most portion of the building
line adjacent to the side property line, or closer than 35 feet from the curb
or edge of paved or improved portion of the street, whichever is greater. Where
a property line is not clearly defined, a certificate of survey shall be
required to establish the location of the property line.
   (D)   On a corner lot, no fence or landscaping shall be placed in such a
manner so as to pose a danger to traffic by obscuring the view of approaching
vehicular traffic or pedestrians from any driveway or street right-of-way. No
fence, structure or planting shall be permitted above a height of 3 feet,
measured from where both street centerlines intersect within the triangle
described as beginning at the intersection of the projected curb line, or edge
of paved portion of roadway if no curbs exist, of 2 intersecting streets,
thence 35 feet along one curb line, or edge of paved portion of roadway if no
curbs exist, thence diagonally to a point 35 feet from the point of beginning
along the other curb line. These requirements shall not apply to conditions of
this chapter that legally existed prior to June 14, 2011, unless the Zoning
Administrator determines that such conditions constitute a safety hazard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1674.jpg]
 
   (E)   Location and height in non-residential districts, including
commercial, industrial, agricultural, park and open space. Except as set forth
below, in non-residential districts, fences may be located on the property line
and may be constructed up to a height of 6 feet. If the fence includes a
security arm for barbed wire, the maximum height, including the security arm
for barbed wire, may be 8 feet tall. Fences allowed in conjunction with
alternative energy systems, pursuant to §
153.034, may be constructed up to a height of 8 feet. The city will require
compliance with the requirements of division (C) of this section for fences
constructed on or near a property line, and one that adjoins a residential
district.
   (F)   Fences of appropriate height for athletic fields are allowed in the
park district as determined by sanctioning athletic association regulations and
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (G)   Placement of fences along property lines. Fences may be located upon
the division line of the respective properties based on the following:
      (1)   Where a property line is not clearly defined, a certificate of
survey shall be required to establish the location of the property line;
      (2)   Fences shall be located at least 2 feet from the lot lines; unless
when located along the property line the abutting property owners written
consent is obtained, and provided no physical damage of any kind results to
abutting property; and
      (3)   Fences shall not restrict drainage. A solid wall style fence may
exceed its allowable height by 4 inches to facilitate drainage.
   (H)   Maintenance. The owner of the property on which a fence is located
shall maintain both sides of the fence. Every fence shall be maintained in a
condition of reasonable repair and shall not by reason of age, decay, accident
or otherwise be allowed to become and remain in a state of disrepair. Should
the fence become a nuisance, the owner shall be subject to all legal remedies
allowable.
   (I)   Permits. No person, firm, or corporation shall hereafter construct or
cause to be constructed or erected within the city any fence without first
securing a fence permit from the City Clerk. The applicant shall certify that
the fence will meet all requirements of the city code relating to the height,
placement, and type of material. The applicant shall also certify that in the
event of any improper placement of the fence the applicant shall relocate the
fence within 1 week from notice thereof by the city. Any cost incurred for the
relocation shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant.
   (J)   Agriculture uses. Fences located on property zoned agriculture, at
least 10 acres in size, and actively and primarily used for agricultural
purposes are not subject to the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 2011-6-4, passed 6-14-2011; Am. Ord. 2013-9-2, passed 9-10-2013; Am. Ord.
2016-4-1, passed 4-12-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-5-6, passed 5-24-2016; Am. Ord. 2023-
9-3, passed 9-12-2023)
§ 153.033 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for the use of the
home as a place for the operation of a business or profession provided the
occupation is clearly secondary to the principal use of the home as a
residence, and does not alter the character or appearance of the home or
neighborhood. Home occupations are permitted in Residential and Agricultural
Districts.
   (B)   Permitted home occupations. Home occupations do not require a permit
if all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Do not require use of a garage.
      (2)   Do not require additional parking.
      (3)   Does not require an accessory building.
      (4)   Does not use hazardous materials as defined by the MPCA.
      (5)   Does not generate a noticeable increase in traffic.
      (6)   Does not violate §
95.04(S).
   (C)   Interim use permit. Homes occupations which have the potential for
generating a noticeable increase in traffic beyond typical residential trips
per day, require additional parking, or require the use of an accessory
building or garage shall require an interim use permit in accordance with §
153.190. Home occupations such as barbershops, beauty salons, repair shops,
clothing shops, bed-and-breakfast inns, schools, and similar uses determined by
the Planning Commission shall require an interim use permit. Motor vehicle
repair shall be permitted with an interim use permit only in the RR-A, RR-I,
RR-II, and AG Districts.
   (D)   Performance standards. All home occupations shall conform to the
following standards:
      (1)   Conduct of the home occupation does not require alterations to the
exterior of the residence which substantially alters the appearance of the
dwelling as a residence;
      (2)   Signage shall comply with requirements in §§
153.090 et seq.;
      (3)   No outdoor display of storage or goods, except up to 3 motor
vehicles waiting repair(not to exceed 30 days);
      (4)   Any additional need for parking generated by the home occupation
shall be met by off-street parking. The parking area shall be limited to 3
spaces;
      (5)   Complies with all noise ordinances as outlined in §
95.04(S);
      (6)   Should the home occupation be repair or manufacturing, the items
repaired or manufactured shall be of a size or nature that repairs or
manufacturing can occur within the home, or an accessory structure to the
principal use with all doors closed;
      (7)   An accessory structure may be utilized in conjunction with the home
occupation only for purposes of holding equipment used off the site, repair or
manufacturing items pursuant to division (D)(6) above, and/or for the storage
of goods or articles produced or used by the occupant of the principle
structure; and
      (8)   The home occupation shall not generate sewage of a nature or type
that cannot be treated by a standard on-site sewage system or hazardous wastes
without an approved plan for off-site disposal.
      (9)   No outside storage is permitted.
   (E)   General restrictions.
      (1)   Customer visits related to the home occupation shall be allowed
only during the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
Deliveries and pickups related to the home occupation shall only be allowed
during the hours of 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday though Saturday.
      (2)   Deliveries for home occupations shall be limited to 2 delivery or
pickup trips per day.
      (3)   The number of customer or client trips allowed shall not exceed 8
per day (1 trip= 1 drop off and 1 pickup).
   (F)   Special exceptions for Rural Business Overlay District. Special
exception home occupation permits are available to those parcels zoned Rural
Business Overlay District, generally located along Forest Boulevard and are
north of 340th Street and south of 360th Street. Performance standards are
specified in § 153.064(F). Signage shall comply with requirements in §
153.090 et seq.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2024-9-2, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.034 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
establish standards and procedures by which the installation and operation of
wind and solar energy systems shall be governed within the city. The city finds
that it is in the public interest to encourage alternative energy systems that
have a positive impact on energy production and conservation, while not having
an adverse impact on the community.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the
purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY. A system designed as a secondary use to existing buildings or
facilities, wherein the power generated is used primarily for on-site
consumption.
      ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system, geothermal,
or a solar energy system.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building, including but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot
water solar systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and
awnings.
      GEOTHERMAL ENERGY. Renewable energy generated from the interior of the
earth and used to produce energy for heating and/or cooling buildings.
      GROUND-MOUNTED PANELS. Freestanding solar panels mounted to the ground by
use of stabilizers or similar apparatus.
      GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM (GSHPS). A system that uses the relatively
constant temperature of the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the
winter and cooling in the summer. System components include open or closed
loops of pipe, coils or plates; fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a
heat pump unit that processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and
an air distribution system. The energy must be used on-site.
      HEAT TRANSFER FLUID. A non-toxic and food-grade fluid, such as potable
water, aqueous solutions or propylene glycol, not to exceed 20% by weight, or
aqueous solutions of potassium acetate to exceed 20% by weight.
      HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine design in which the rotor
shaft is parallel to the ground and the blades are perpendicular to the ground.
      HUB. The center of a wind generator rotor, which holds the blades in
place and attaches to the shaft.
      HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from natural grade to the center of the
turbine hub.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A tower constructed of tapered tubes that fit together
symmetrically and are stacked, one section on top of another, and bolted to a
concrete foundation without support cables.
      PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that captures solar light or heat
without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the energy
via a heat exchanger.
      PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
      RESIDENTIAL WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine with a nameplate generating
capacity of 10 kilowatts (kW) or less.
      ROOF- OR BUILDING-MOUNTED SES. Solar energy system (panels) that is (are)
mounted to the roof or building using brackets, stands or other apparatus.
      ROOF PITCH. The final exterior slope of a building roof calculated by the
rise over the run, typically, but not exclusively, expressed in twelfths, such
as 3/12, 9/12, 12/12.
      SOLAR ACCESS. A view of the sun, from any point on the collector surface
that is not obscured by any vegetation, building, or object located on parcels
of land other than the parcel upon  which the solar collector is located,
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. on any day of the year.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device, structure or a part of a device or structure
whose primary purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical, or electrical energy.
      SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected
in the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM (SES). An active SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM that collects or
stores solar energy, and transforms solar energy into another form of energy,
or transfers heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical,
electrical, or chemical means.
      SOLAR HOT WATER SYSTEM. A system that includes a solar collector and a
heat exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or
other hot water needs, including residential domestic hot water and hot water
for commercial processes.
      STORMWATER POND. A pond created for stormwater treatment. A STORMWATER
POND shall not include wetlands created to mitigate the loss of other wetlands.
      TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point above natural grade reached by rotor tip
or any other part of the wind turbine.
      TOWER. A vertical structure that supports a wind turbine.
      VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. A type of wing turbine where the main rotor
shaft runs vertically.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An electrical generating facility
that consists of a wind turbine, feeder line(s), and associated controls, and
may include a tower.
      WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts
the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy through the use of
airfoils or similar devises to capture the wind.
   (C)   Wind conversion energy system (WECS) standards.
      (1)   Zoning districts. Residential wind turbines (only vertical-axis
style permitted) shall be allowed as an accessory us in all residential
districts, excluding the Mobile Home Park District.
      (2)   Number. No more than one WECS is allowed per parcel.
      (3)   Design standards.
         (a)   Height. The permitted maximum height of a WECS shall be
determined on the type of system proposed.
            1.   Residential wind turbines. Residential wind turbines can only
be building-mounted at a maximum height of 15 feet above the roofline of the
principal structure. All residential wind turbines shall be of the vertical-
axis style; the height shall not exceed the maximum allowable height for the
district.
            2.   The structure upon which the proposed WECS is to be mounted
shall have the structural integrity to carry the weight and wind loads of the
WECS, and have minimal vibration impacts on the structure.
            3.   Poles shall match the color of the principal structure.
         (b)   Setbacks for building-mounted. A building- or roof-mounted,
vertical-axis-style WECS shall be located only on the side or rear rooflines.
         (c)   Easements. Wind energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage, utility roadway or trail easements.
         (d)   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel.
         (e)   Aesthetics. All portions of the wind energy system shall be a
nonreflective, non-obtrusive color, subject to the approval of the City
Council. The appearance of the turbine, mounting, and any other related
components shall be maintained throughout the life of the wind energy system
pursuant to industry standards. Systems shall not be used for displaying any
advertising, except for applicable warning and equipment information required
by the manufacturer or by federal, state or local regulations. Systems shall
not be illuminated.
      (4)   Noise. Wind energy systems shall comply with Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency Standards, as outlined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, at all
property lines.
      (5)   Safety.
         (a)   Standards. Wind energy systems shall meet minimum standards,
such as International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 61400-2 or the American
Wind Energy Association's (AWEA) Small Wind Turbine Performance and Safety
Standard, or other standards at determined by the City Council.
         (b)   Maintenance. Wind energy systems shall be maintained under an
agreement or contract by the manufacturer or other qualified entity.
         (c)   Braking. The WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and an
automatic braking device capable of stopping the WECS operation in high winds.
      (6)   Utility connection. All grid-connected systems shall have an
agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a conditional use
permit or building permit. A visible external disconnect must be provided if
required by the utility.
      (7)   Abandonment. If the wind energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of 1 year, the system shall be deemed to be
abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure, including foundations to below natural
grade and transmission equipment.
      (8)   Permits. A conditional use permit shall be obtained for any wind
energy system prior to installation. All applications shall be accompanied by
detailed plans and specifications, including but not limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   Submissions required pursuant to §
153.192.
         (b)   Scaled drawings and photographic perspectives accurately
depicting the structure of the proposed location of the WECS and its
relationship to structures on adjacent lots.
         (c)   A written certification from a licensed structural engineer that
the structure has the structural integrity to carry the weight and wind loads
of the WECS, and have minimal vibration impacts on the structure.
         (d)   An analysis from a licensed engineer showing how the WECS shall
be designed, constructed and operated in compliance with all applicable
federal, state and local laws, codes, standards and ordinances.
         (e)   A written certification from a licensed engineer confirming that
the WECS is designed to not cause electrical, radio frequency, television and
other communication signal interference.
         (f)   Roof-mounted WECS shall include detailed plans illustrating roof
construction, mounting techniques and wind load capacity.
   (D)   Solar energy systems.
      (1)   Districts. Solar energy systems (SES) shall be allowed as an
accessory use in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Placement and design.
         (a)   Height.
            1.   Roof- or building-mounted SES shall not exceed the maximum
allowed height in any zoning district.
            2.   Ground-mounted SES shall not exceed the height of an allowed
accessory structure within the zoning district when oriented at maximum tilt.
         (b)   Placement.
            1.   Ground-mounted SES. Ground-mounted SES must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district in which it is installed.
            2.   Roof- or building-mounted SES. The collector surface and
mounting devices for roof- or building-mounted SES shall not extend beyond the
required setbacks of the building on which the system is mounted.
         (c)   Coverage. Ground-mounted SES may not exceed the area
restrictions placed on accessory structures within the subject zoning district.
         (d)   Visibility.
            1.   General. SES shall be designed to blend into the architecture
of the building or be screened from routine view from public rights-of-way. The
color of the solar collector is not required to be consistent with other
roofing materials.
            2.   Building-integrated solar energy systems. Building-integrated
solar systems shall be allowed regardless of visibility, provided the building
component in which the system is integrated meets all required setback, land
use or performance standards for the zoning district in which the building is
located.
            3.   Ground-mounted solar energy systems. Ground-mounted SES shall
be screened from view to the extent possible without reducing their efficiency.
Screening may include walls, fences, or landscaping.
      (3)   General standards.
         (a)   Notification. Prior to the installation or erection of a SES,
the owner must provide evidence showing their regular electrical service
provider has been informed of the customer's intent to install an
interconnected, customer-owned SES. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this
requirement.
         (b)   Feeder lines. Any lines accompanying a SES, other than those
attached to on-site structures by leads, shall be buried within the interior of
the subject parcel, unless there are existing lines in the area which the lines
accompanying an SES can be attached.
         (c)   Commercial. All SES shall be limited to the purpose of on-site
energy production, except that any additional energy produced above the total
on-site demand may be sold to the owner's regular electrical service provider
in accordance with any agreement provided by the same or applicable
legislation.
         (d)   Restriction of solar energy systems limited. No homeowner's
agreement, covenant, common interest community, or other contract between
multiple property owners within a subdivision shall restrict or limit solar
systems to a greater extent than the city's renewable energy ordinance.
      (4)   Abandonment. A SES that is allowed to remain in a nonfunctional or
inoperative state for a period of 12 consecutive months, and that is not
brought in operation within the time specified by the city, shall be presumed
abandoned and may be declared a public nuisance subject to removal at the
expense of the owner.
      (5)   Permits. A conditional use permit shall be obtained for any solar
energy system prior to installation. All applications shall be accompanied by
detailed plans and specifications, including but not limited to, the following
information:
         (a)   Submissions required pursuant to §
153.192.
         (b)   Scaled drawings and photographic perspectives accurately
depicting the structure of the proposed location of the SES and its
relationship to structures on adjacent lots.
         (c)   A written certification from a licensed engineer certifying that
the SES will not impact neighboring properties due to glare.
         (d)   An analysis from a licensed engineer showing how the SES shall
be designed, constructed and operated in compliance with all applicable
federal, state and local laws, codes, standards and ordinances.
         (e)   A written certification from a licensed engineer confirming that
the SES is designed to not cause electrical, radio frequency, television and
other communication signal interference.
         (f)   Roof-mounted SES shall include detailed plans illustrating roof
construction, mounting techniques and wind load capacity.
   (E)   Geothermal energy systems.
      (1)   Districts. Ground source heat pump systems (GSHPS) shall be allowed
as an accessory use in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Placement and design.
         (a)   Placement.
            1.   All components of GSHPS, including pumps, borings and loops,
shall be set back at least 5 feet from interior and rear lot lines, or meet the
requirements of the underlying zoning district, whichever is more restrictive.
            2.   All components of GSHPS shall not encroach on easements.
            3.   GSHPS are prohibited in surface waters, except for stormwater
ponds where they are permitted.
         (b)   Design. Only closed loop GSHPS utilizing Minnesota Department of
Health-approved heat transfer fluids are permitted.
      (3)   General standards.
         (a)   Noise. GSHPS shall comply with Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency standards outlined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7030.
      (4)   Abandonment. A GSHPS that is allowed to remain in a nonfunctional
or inoperative state for a period of 12 consecutive months, and that is not
brought in operation within the time specified by the city, shall be presumed
abandoned and may be declared a public nuisance subject to removal at the
expense of the owner.
      (5)   Permits. A conditional use permit shall be obtained for any
geothermal energy system prior to installation. All applications shall be
accompanied by detailed plans and specifications, including but not limited to,
the following information:
         (a)   Submissions required pursuant to §
153.192.
         (b)   Scaled drawings and photographic perspectives accurately
depicting the structure of the proposed location of the GSHPS and its
relationship to structures on adjacent lots.
         (c)   A written certification from a licensed engineer certifying that
the GSHPS will not impact neighboring properties.
         (d)   An analysis from a licensed engineer showing how the GSHPS shall
be designed, constructed and operated in compliance with all applicable
federal, state and local laws, codes, standards and ordinances.
   (F)   General provisions.
      (1)   Interpretation. In interpreting this section and its application,
the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the protection of public health, safety, and general welfare.
This section shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which it
was adopted.
      (2)   Conflict. This section is not intended to interfere with, abrogate
or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of
law except as provided herein. If any provision of this section imposes
restrictions different from any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statue or
provision of law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes higher
standards shall control.
(Ord. 2013-9-2, passed 9-10-2013; Am. Ord. 2023-8-2, passed 8-8-2023)
§ 153.035 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS (ADU).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
establish standards and procedures by which ADUs are governed by the city to
provide uses that are appropriate, safe, sanitary and attractive.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the
purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). An un-rented additional dwelling unit that
is subordinate to a single-family dwelling consisting of bedroom, living space,
bathroom and kitchen that is 500 square feet or less. An ADU may be within or
attached to a single-family dwelling, or detached in a separate accessory
building on the same lot as a single-family dwelling.
      CHILD CARE PROVIDER. A person providing child care services to the
children residing in the primary structure.
      FARM WORKER. A person providing land and/or animal maintenance assistance
to a person residing in the primary structure.
      HEALTH CARE PROVIDER. A person providing personal care services to a
person residing in the primary structure on the property.
   (C)   Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards (ADU). Zoning Districts.
      (1)   Residential Zone Parcels.
         (a)   ADUs will be allowed as an accessory use in the R-1 (Single
Family Residential) District. Allowed use by family members, health care
providers, or child care providers only.
         (b)   ADUs will be allowed as an accessory use in the R-2 (One and Two
Family Residential) District;
            1.   If lot contains only 1 single-family structure.
            2.   Allowed use by family members, health care provider, or child
care providers only.
         (c)   No ADU is allowed prior to principal building.
         (d)   No variances shall be granted for an accessory dwelling unit.
         (e)   Number. Only 1 accessory dwelling unit may be created per
parcel.
         (f)   Permits. A Conditional Use Permit (CUP) shall be obtained for
any permanent ADU. An Interim Use Permit (IUP) shall be obtained for any
temporary ADU. All applications shall be accompanied by detailed plans and
specifications including, but not limited to submissions required pursuant to §
153.192 of the city code.
         (g)   Design standards.
            1.   Setbacks. The ADU shall comply with the zoning standards for a
principal structure setback in the zoning district in which it is located.
            2.   Forty percent landscape requirement. In no event shall off-
street parking spaces, structures of any type, buildings, or other features
cover more than 60% of the lot area resulting in less than 40% landscaped in
residential districts.
            3.   Utility connection. The ADU must be connected to city water
and sewer if available or to a private septic system and private well if city
water and sewer are not available. Temporary holding tanks, compost toilets, or
burning toilets are not allowed.
            4.   Design. The architectural design and appearance of all
permanent ADU's shall be consistent with the primary structure and with
surrounding buildings and structures, including similar material, material
design, color and texture.
            5.   Park models allowed. Park models, also known as recreational
park trailers, are small houses built on a chassis with wheels. Park models are
allowed if firmly attached to the ground as approved by the City Engineer.
            6.   Not allowed. Motor homes, camping trailers, pop up trailers,
or temporary offices, except for temporary construction offices as provided for
in §
153.031(A)(1).
      (2)   Agricultural Zoned Parcels.
         (a)   ADUs will be allowed in the A (Agriculture) District.
            1.   Allowed use by family members, health care providers, child
care providers, and farm workers only.
            2.   No ADU is allowed prior to principal building.
         (b)   Number. No more than 1 ADU is allowed per parcel.
         (c)   No variances shall be granted for an accessory dwelling unit.
         (d)   Permits. A Conditional Use Permit (CUP) shall be obtained for
any permanent ADU. An Interim Use Permit (IUP) shall be obtained for any
temporary ADU. All applications shall be accompanied by detailed plans and
specifications including, but not limited to submissions required pursuant to §
153.192 of the city code.
         (e)   Design standards:
            1.   Setbacks. The ADU shall comply with the zoning district in
which it is located.
            2.   Forty percent landscape requirement. In no event shall off-
street parking space, structures of any type, buildings, or other features
cover more than 60% of the lot area resulting in less than 40% landscaped in
residential districts.
            3.   Utility connection. The ADU must be connected to city water
and sewer if available or to a private septic system and private well if city
water and sewer are not available. Temporary holding tanks, compost toilets, or
burning toilets are not allowed.
            4.   Design. The architectural design and appearance of all
permanent ADU's shall be consistent with the primary structure and with
surrounding buildings and structures, including similar material, material
design, color and texture.
            5.   Allowed. Park models, also known as recreational park
trailers, are small houses built on a chassis with wheels. Park models are
allowed if firmly attached to the ground as approved by the City Engineer; or
temporary office structures are allowed and must be firmly attached to the
ground.
            6.   Not allowed. Motor homes, camping trailers, or pop up
trailers.
      (3)   Unit occupancy. The total combined occupancy of the principal
dwelling unit and the accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed the definition
of a family in this title.
      (4)   Parking provisions. The principal structure and ADU must comply
with the zones parking requirements. If a park model trailer is used, it does
not count for the 1 allowable RV.
      (5)   General ordinance provisions.
         (a)   Interpretation. In interpreting this section and its
application, the provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the protection of public health, safety, and general
welfare. This section shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for
which it was adopted.
         (b)   Conflict. This section is not intended to interfere with,
abrogate or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other
provision of law except as provided herein. If any provision of this section
imposes restrictions different from any other ordinance, rule or regulation,
statue or provision of law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes
higher standards shall control.
         (c)   Severability. If any part of provision of this section or its
application to any developer or circumstance is judged invalid by a competent
jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined in its operation to the part,
provision or application directly involved in the controversy in which the
judgment shall be rendered and shall not affect or impair the validity of the
remainder of these regulations or application of them to other developers or
circumstances.
(Ord. 2016-10-2, passed 10-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
PROVISIONS AFFECTING SPECIFIC ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 153.045 R-1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (LOW DENSITY).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the single family district is to provide for
low density, single- family detached dwellings and directly related,
complimentary uses.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   15,000 square feet for lots with public sewer;
         (b)   Two acres for lots without public sewer;
      (2)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   100 feet for interior and corner lots with public sewer;
         (b)   150 feet for interior and corner lots without public sewer;
      (3)   Front yard setbacks: 25 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setbacks: 35 feet;
      (5)   Side yard:
         (a)   10 feet interior;
         (b)   20 feet corner;
         (c)   30 feet for public and semi-public buildings abutting a
residential or vacant lot;
      (6)   Height:
         (a)   Two and one-half stories or 35 feet maximum;
         (b)   50 feet maximum for nonresidential farm buildings (100% increase
for church spires, water towers, and the like);
      (7)   Minimum ground floor area per dwelling: See §
153.027.
   (C)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Parks, public schools, and municipal buildings;
      (3)   Essential services not involving a structure;
      (4)   Personal greenhouses.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Off-street parking spaces and garages as required in this chapter;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational equipment for
the convenience of the principle residents and their guests;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment;
      (6)   Boarding or renting of rooms within principal building to not more
than 1 person;
      (7)   Essential services;
      (8)   Fencing, screening and landscaping as permitted and regulated in
this chapter;
      (9)   Piers and docks;
      (10)   Temporary signs not exceeding 4 square feet appertaining to lease,
use or sale of premises, subject to side yard setbacks;
      (11)   Chicken/duck coops and pens as regulated in §
92.19 of this code; and
      (12)   Accessory dwelling units as regulated by §
153.035.
   (E)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
      (1)   Churches; golf courses, private schools, cemeteries;
      (2)   Off-street parking lots;
      (3)   Building heights exceeding those permitted heretofore when side
yards shall be increased by 1 foot for each foot of building height in excess
of 35 feet and the distance between 2 principal buildings shall be no less than
one-half of the sum of the heights of the 2 structures;
      (4)   Planned unit developments as regulated by this chapter;
      (5)   Radio, TV, and other similar towers.
(Prior Code, § 903.01) (Am. Ord. 2001-8-1, passed - -2001; Am. Ord. 2011-11-1,
passed 11-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2014-4-1, passed 5-13-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-10-2,
passed 10-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-12-4,
passed 12-12-2023)
§ 153.046 R-2 ONE AND TWO FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (MEDIUM DENSITY).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the One and Two Family Residential District is
to provide for medium density housing in single-family and two-family dwellings
and directly related, complimentary uses.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   10,000 square feet for single-family dwelling lots with public
sewer;
         (b)   15,000 square feet for two-family dwelling lots with public
sewer;
         (c)   Two acres for single-family dwelling lots without public sewer;
         (d)   Five acres for two-family dwelling lots without public sewer;
      (2)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   100 feet for single-family dwelling lots with public sewer;
         (b)   100 feet for two-family dwelling lots with public sewer;
         (c)   150 feet for all lots without public sewer;
      (3)   Front yard setback: 25 feet;
      (4)   Rear yard setback:   25% of the lot depth, or 25 feet, whichever is
lesser;
      (5)   Side yard setback:
         (a)   10 feet interior;
         (b)   10 feet interior for buildings of two and one-half stories
height or more;
         (c)   15 feet corner;
         (d)   25 feet for public and semi-public buildings abutting a
residential or vacant lot;
      (6)   Height: Same as in R-1;
      (7)   Minimum ground floor area per dwelling: See §
153.027.
   (C)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   All uses listed as permitted uses in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Duplexes as defined in this chapter.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. All uses listed as permitted accessory uses
in the R-1 District.
   (E)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
      (1)   All uses listed as conditional uses in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Planned unit developments as regulated by this chapter;
      (3)   Bed and Breakfasts, tourist accommodations and associated
commercial uses necessary to the operation of the use;
      (4)   Conversions of single-family dwellings into two-family dwellings,
provided that:
         (a)   No existing single-family dwellings shall be converted into more
than 2 dwelling units;
         (b)   Lot size shall be at least 15,000 square feet with public sewer;
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking is provided in accordance with this
chapter;
         (d)   Each unit shall meet the minimum health and safety requirements
as provided for in the Uniform Building Code and State Fire Code.
(Prior Code, § 903.02) (Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.047 R-3A MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-3A Multiple Family Residential District
is to provide for high density housing in the form of townhouses.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Public sewer: all buildings and units must be serviced with public
sewer;
      (2)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   10,000 square feet for single-family dwelling lots;
         (b)   15,000 square feet for two-family or multi-family dwelling lots;
      (3)   Minimum lot area for townhouses:   5,000 square feet;
      (4)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   100 feet for single-family dwellings;
         (b)   100 feet for structures with more than one dwelling;
      (5)   Front yard setback:   25 feet;
      (6)   Rear yard setback:   25% of lot depth or 25 feet, whichever is
lesser;
      (7)   Side yard setback:
         (a)   10 feet interior;
         (b)   10 feet interior for building of 2-1/2 stories or more in
height;
         (c)   15 feet corner;
         (d)   25 feet for public or semi-public building abutting a
residential lot;
      (8)   Height:   3 stories or 40 feet maximum, whichever is greater;
      (9)   Minimum ground floor area per dwelling: See §
153.027.
   (C)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   Townhouses;
      (2)   All uses listed as permitted uses in the R-2 District;
      (3)   Residential structures containing more than one dwelling, excepting
apartments.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. All uses listed as permitted accessory uses
in the R-1 District.
   (E)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
      (1)   All uses listed as conditional uses in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Planned unit development as regulated by this chapter;
      (3)   Resorts and tourist accommodations;
      (4)   Clubs and lodges operating as non-profit institutions;
      (5)   Nursing homes, rest homes.
(Prior Code, § 903.03) (Am. Ord. 2004-4-2, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3,
passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.048 R-3B MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-3B Multiple Family Residential District
is to provide for high density housing in the form of apartments.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Public sewer: all buildings and units must be serviced by public
sewer.
      (2)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   10,000 square feet for single-family dwelling lots;
         (b)   15,000 square feet for two-family or multi-family dwelling lots;
      (3)   Minimum lot area per unit for multi-family dwellings:
         (a)   2,000 square feet per efficiency unit;
         (b)   2,500 square feet per one bedroom unit;
         (c)   3,000 square feet per unit of two bedrooms or more;
      (4)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   100 feet for single-family dwellings;
         (b)   100 feet for structures with more than one dwelling.
      (5)   Front yard setback:   25 feet.
      (6)   Rear yard setback:   25% of lot depth, or 25 feet, whichever is
lesser.
      (7)   Side yard setback:
         (a)   10 feet interior;
         (b)   10 feet interior for building of 2-1/2 stories or more in
height;
         (c)   15 feet corner;
         (d)   25 feet for public or semi-public building abutting a
residential lot.
      (8)   Height:   3 stories or 40 feet maximum, whichever is greater.
      (9)   Minimum ground floor area per dwelling: See §
153.027.
   (C)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   Apartments;
      (2)   All uses listed as permitted uses in the R-3A District;
      (3)   Residential structures containing more than one dwelling.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. All uses listed as permitted accessory uses
in the R-1 District.
   (E)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
      (1)   All uses listed as conditional uses in the R-1 District;
      (2)   Planned unit development as regulated by this chapter;
      (3)   Resorts and tourist accommodations;
      (4)   Clubs and lodges operating as non-profit institutions;
      (5)   Nursing homes, rest homes.
(Ord. 2004-4-2, passed - -2004; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.049 R-M MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the R-M Manufactured Home Park District is to
provide for manufactured home uses in an appropriate, safe, sanitary and
attractive environment.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. Manufactured homes in manufactured home
parks.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Off-street private parking facilities;
      (2)   Recreational vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Swimming pools, tennis courts, and other recreational facilities;
      (4)   Fencing, screening, and landscaping, according to this chapter;
      (5)   Tool houses, sheds, and similar storage buildings;
      (6)   Central office and central community buildings of manufactured home
park.
      (7)   Private garage.
   (D)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit. Indoor mini-storage
facilities and outside storage. Facilities for indoor mini-storage facilities
and outdoor storage shall be constructed, owned, and operated only by the
manufactured home park owner, and shall be rented and used only by current
manufactured home park residents. An application by the manufactured home park
owner for a conditional use permit to construct and operate mini-storage units
shall comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   The property owner shall submit a water runoff drainage plan, which
shall be subject to approval by the City Engineer and shall comply with all
details of the plan.
      (2)   A secure fence shall be installed around the perimeter of the
outside storage area, and shall comply with the requirements of the fencing
regulations in the city code for this district.
      (3)   No hazardous material storage shall be allowed on the property.
      (4)   A dust control plan shall be submitted, which shall be subject to
the approval of the City Engineer.
      (5)   A lighting plan shall be submitted, which shall be subject to
approval by the City Engineer.
      (6)   The use shall comply with the requirements of the nuisance
ordinance and all other city code provisions.
      (7)   No motor repair or body work shall take place in the mini-storage
units.
      (8)   Structure must be bent of a concrete foundation or built on a
concrete slab.
      (9)   Building materials shall be consistent with other buildings.
   (E)   Detached accessory building setback requirements. Private garages
shall be constructed with fire-resistant materials and shall be located not
less than 10 feet from the primary residential structure on a lot, including
any attachments, and not less than 10 feet from any structure on an adjacent
lot.
   (F)   General provisions. No manufactured home for residential purposes, or
accessory uses or structures, shall be permitted within any manufactured home
park unless the manufactured home park is or has been approved by the Minnesota
Department of Administration in accordance with applicable state statutes and
rules.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall not be used for residential purposes in
the city if they:
         (a)   Are in an unsanitary condition or have an exterior in bad
repair;
         (b)   Are structurally unsound and do not protect the inhabitants
against all elements;
         (c)   Do not have adequate sewage facilities as required by the City
Council in accordance with regulations.
      (2)   No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes in a
manufactured home park.
      (3)   Access to manufactured home parks shall be as approved by the City
Council.
      (4)   The area beneath a manufactured home shall be enclosed except that
such enclosure must have access for inspection.
      (5)   If the provisions of this section are less restrictive than state
statutes or rules relating to manufactured home parks, then the applicable
state statutes and rules shall control.
   (F)   Conflicts. Nothing contained in this section shall be construed to
prohibit manufactured homes in other residential districts when the
manufactured home complies in all respects with all applicable regulations of
the particular zoning district.
(Prior Code, § 903.04) (Am. Ord. 2013-5-2, passed 5-14-2013)
§ 153.050 CBD CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is designed and intended as a specialized
district directed to serve the pedestrian in a compact area of the city. The
CBD will provide for a high density shopping and business environment,
especially stressing due pedestrian function and interaction of people and
businesses, rather than being heavily oriented toward due use of automobiles.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   All buildings shall be serviced by public utilities unless
otherwise approved by the City Council.
      (2)   There shall be no minimum required lot area or frontage.
      (3)   There shall be no minimum required setbacks, except when abutting
residentially zoned property where there shall be:
         (a)   Side yard setback abutting residential property of not less than
10 feet;
         (b)   Rear yard setback abutting an R District of not less than 10
feet.
      (4)   Properties may also be subject to the requirements of the Shoreland
Overlay District, §
153.054.
   (C)   Special requirements.
      (1)   Every use, unless expressly exempted by this chapter or allowed by
a conditional use permit, shall operate in its entirety within a completely
enclosed structure.
      (2)   All flashing, revolving, and intermittently lit signs are expressly
prohibited.
      (3)   Marquees and canopies may project to within not more than 2 feet of
the curb of the street, provided the base of any such marquee or canopy is at
least 12 feet above the grade of the sidewalk.
   (D)   Permitted principal uses. The following are permitted uses:
      (1)   Antique store;
      (2)   Apparel and accessory store;
      (3)   Appliance store, sales and service;
      (4)   Art gallery;
      (5)   Artist studio or school;
      (6)   Bakery retail;
      (7)   Barbershop;
      (8)   Beauty shop;
      (9)   Bookstore;
      (10)   Business machine store;
      (11)   Camera and photographic supply store;
      (12)   Candy, ice cream and confectionary store;
      (13)   Caterer;
      (14)   Clinic, dental or medical; but not animal clinic or hospital;
      (15)   Computer store;
      (16)   Copy retail;
      (17)   Dance studio;
      (18)   Delicatessen store;
      (19)   Department store;
      (20)   Discount store;
      (21)   Dressmaking, seamstress;
      (22)   Drugstore;
      (23)   Financial institutions; drive-in facilities;
      (24)   Floral sales;
      (25)   Garden supplies store; nursery; truck garden;
      (26)   Gift, novelty or souvenir store;
      (27)   Hardware store;
      (28)   Health equipment store;
      (29)   Interior decorator;
      (30)   Jewelry store;
      (31)   Library;
      (32)   Liquor store or tavern;
      (33)   Locksmith;
      (34)   Luggage store;
      (35)   Music store, accessories and studio;
      (36)   Newsstand;
      (37)   Office of any type;
      (38)   Optician;
      (39)   Optical goods;
      (40)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (41)   Photographic studio or picture processing;
      (42)   Restaurants;
      (43)   Shoe repair shop;
      (44)   Sporting goods shop;
      (45)   Stationery stores;
      (46)   Tailor;
      (47)   Theatrical studio;
      (48)   Ticket agency;
      (49)   Toy store;
      (50)   Travel bureau or agency;
      (51)   Variety store;
      (52)   Existing single-family detached dwellings, subject to lot
requirements and accessory uses under §
153.045;
      (53)   Pet grooming;
      (54)   Licensed tattoo shop; and
      (55)   Massage therapy, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading spaces.
      (2)   Business signs as per §§
153.090 et seq.
   (F)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
      (1)   Automobile dealership and auto service use.
      (2)   Gas stations, service stations; convenient stores.
      (3)   Drive-in establishments not specifically permitted as a principal
use.
      (4)   Public garage.
      (5)   Other commercial uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted uses above and found not to be
detrimental to the general public health and welfare.
      (6)   Day care - group nursery.
      (7)   Accessory buildings in compliance with §
153.031.
   (G)   Screening.
      (1)   Dumpsters and/or trash/recycling receptacles shall be stored inside
the principal structure or if outside shall only be located on a non-street
side of the building, except for during trash pickup time.
      (2)   Any dumpsters and/or trash/recycling receptacles located along a
street side shall be screened by a wall of at least 6 feet in height which
matches the material, design and color of the principal building or stored
within an accessory structure constructed of building materials compatible with
the principal structure, and readily served through swinging doors or an
overhead door on tracks. Storage containers must have covers or enclosure has
to have a roof.
      (3)   All rooftop mechanical equipment greater than 3 feet in height must
be screened from view by a method which matches that material, design and color
of the building upon which it is located.
   (H)   Building design standards.
      (1)   Quality. Buildings shall maintain a high standard of architectural
and aesthetic compatibility with surrounding properties to ensure that they
will not adversely impact the abutting properties.
      (2)   Exterior finishes. The following materials are permitted for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Stone or glass curtain walls;
         (d)   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use and wood
of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood, or cypress;
         (e)   Break-off block;
         (f)   Stucco; and
         (g)   Precast concrete and integral colored concrete block, provided
surfaces are molded, serrated or treated with a textured material to create a
3-dimensional character.
         (h)   Curtain wall panels of steel, metal, or aluminum provided the
panels are factory fabricated and of a high-quality material with a matte or
non-lustre finish. These structures will require decorative design elements as
approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Prohibited materials. The following materials are prohibited for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Temporary construction.
   (I)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   A lighting plan, showing how the site meets all lighting
requirements must be submitted at the time of building permit.
      (2)   Intensity.
         (a)   Lighting shall not exceed more than 1 foot candles of light
where residential zoning abuts and no more than 15 foot candles of light where
other property abuts, when measured at eye level from the property line and
aimed at the light source.
         (b)   In parking areas and walkways, downward focused lighting shall
be provided by cutoff type luminaries with no more than 10% of light output
above the horizontal plane through the light source.
      (3)   Height. Light fixtures and freestanding luminaries shall not exceed
20 feet or extend above the roofline of the principal building, whichever is
less.
      (4)   Accent lighting. Accent lighting used to highlight selected
landscape or architectural features shall be permitted provided the light
source is shielded to aim directly at the area of focus.
(Ord. 2021-8-3, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.051 GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The General Business District is designed and intended to
promote the development of uses which are oriented towards motorists and
require high volumes of traffic and visibility from major roads. The district
is also designed to accommodate those commercial activities which are not
permitted within the CB, Central Business District, and whose service is not
confined to any 1 neighborhood or community but is more regional in nature.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All businesses shall be serviced by public utilities
unless otherwise approved by the City Council.
      (1)   All uses listed as permitted in the Central Business District;
      (2)   Banks, savings and loans and other financial institutions (without
drive-through);
      (3)   Commercial recreation and entertainment;
      (4)   Funeral homes/mortuaries;
      (5)   Government buildings;
      (6)   Health clubs or gyms;
      (7)   Hotels and motels;
      (8)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and the like;
      (9)   Liquor, off-sale/on-sale;
      (10)   Offices;
      (11)   Public and private clubs and lodges;
      (12)   Restaurants (without drive-through);
      (13)   Larger retail and service uses without drive-throughs, including
the following and similar-type uses:
         (a)   Ambulance services;
         (b)   Appliance stores;
         (c)   Department stores;
         (d)   Drug stores;
         (e)   Furniture stores;
         (f)   Garden supplies and landscape nurseries;
         (g)   Grocery stores;
         (h)   Hardware stores;
         (i)   Office supply stores;
         (j)   Sporting goods stores;
         (k)   Dry cleaning (without processing); and
         (l)   Laundromats.
      (14)   Existing single-family detached dwellings, subject to lot
requirements and accessory uses under §
153.045.
      (15)   Brew pub.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Off-street parking as regulated by §§
153.110 et seq.
      (2)   Towers and antennas as regulated by §§
153.155 et seq.
      (3)   Signs as regulated by §§
153.090 et seq.
      (4)   Temporary trailers and construction equipment for the duration of
construction only where temporary lavatories are provided in compliance with
city and state requirements.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses, subject to §
153.189 and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited below for a
specific use:
      (1)   Any building with a height over 35 feet, subject to §
153.030.
      (2)   Businesses with drive-through facilities, subject to the following:
         (a)   The business shall be located on a site with direct access to a
minor arterial or collector road.
         (b)   All portions of the drive-through facilities, including but not
limited to the service windows and stacking spaces, shall be separated from
residentially zoned or guided property by an arterial or collector street or
shall be set back at least 200 feet from residentially zoned or guided
property.
         (c)   The public address or order system shall not be audible from any
adjacent residentially zoned or guided property.
         (d)   Businesses with 1 drive-through lane shall provide stacking
space for at least 10 vehicles, and businesses with 2 or more drive-through
lanes shall provide stacking space for at least 6 vehicles per lane, as
measured from and including the last pick-up station, window, or the like.
Stacking spaces shall not interfere with parking spaces or traffic circulation.
         (e)   The applicant shall demonstrate that such use will not
significantly lower the existing level of service on streets and intersections.
         (f)   All elements of the drive-through service area, including but
not limited to menu boards, order stations, teller windows, and vehicle lights
from the stacking lanes, shall be screened from adjacent residentially zoned or
guided property pursuant to this section.
         (g)   Restaurants with drive-through facilities shall be responsible
for litter control within 300 feet of the premises. Litter control is to occur
on a daily basis. Trash receptacles must be provided at convenient locations on
site to facilitate litter control.
      (3)   Car washes, subject to the following:
         (a)   The site shall provide stacking space for the car wash. The
amount of stacking space shall take into account the type of car wash and the
amount of time it takes to wash a vehicle. Stacking spaces shall not interfere
with parking spaces or traffic circulation.
         (b)   The exit from the car wash shall have a drainage system which is
subject to the approval of the city and gives special consideration to the
prevention of ice build-up during winter months.
      (4)   Dry cleaning; processing.
      (5)   Mini-storage facilities, subject to the following:
         (a)   Buildings must be constructed of tip-up or block concrete or
other approved material per division (F) of this section. All block shall be
split face and integral colored.
         (b)   Exterior storage shall be limited to no more than 25% of the
total lot area. Areas intended for outside storage must be identified on the
site plan.
         (c)   The buildings shall be an earth-tone color, such as sage, beige,
cream-white or light grey.
      (6)   Motor fuel station, subject to the following:
         (a)   That the approximate area and location of space devoted to non-
automotive merchandise sales shall be specified in the application and in the
conditional use permit.
         (b)   The off-street loading space(s) and building access for delivery
of goods shall be separate from customer parking and entrances and shall not
cause conflicts with customer vehicles and pedestrian movements.
         (c)   Motor fuel facilities shall be installed in accordance with
state and city standards. Additionally, adequate space shall be provided to
access gas pumps and to allow maneuverability around the pumps while in use.
Underground fuel storage tanks are to be positioned to allow adequate access by
motor fuel transports and unloading operations which do not conflict with
circulation, access and other activities on the site. Fuel pumps shall be
installed on pump islands.
         (d)   All buildings, canopies, and pump islands shall be located to
comply with the minimum setback requirements.
         (e)   All canopy lighting for motor fuel station pump islands shall be
recessed or shielded to provide a 90-degree cutoff.
         (f)   The operation shall be responsible for litter control within 300
feet of the premises. Litter control is to occur on a daily basis. Trash
receptacles must be provided at convenient locations on site to facilitate
litter control.
      (7)   Motor vehicle, boat or equipment service stations and repair
garages, subject to the following:
         (a)   All servicing of vehicles and equipment shall occur entirely
within the principal structure.
         (b)   To the extent required by state law and regulations, painting
shall be conducted in an approved paint booth, which thoroughly controls the
emission of fumes, dust, or other particulated matter.
         (c)   Storage and use of all flammable materials, including liquid and
rags, shall conform to applicable provisions of the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code.
         (d)   Parking, driveway, and circulation standards and requirements
shall be subject to the review and approval of the city and shall be based upon
the specific needs of the operation and shall accommodate large vehicle
equipment and semi-trailer/tractor trucks.
         (e)   The storage of damaged vehicles and vehicle parts and accessory
equipment must be completely inside a principal or accessory building.
      (8)   Motor vehicle, boats and equipment sales, subject to the following:
         (a)   All sales shall occur on 1 lot.
         (b)   Parking areas for the outside storage and sale of vehicles,
boats and trailers, shall be on impervious surface, either bituminous,
concrete, or approved equivalent.
         (c)   Interior concrete curbs shall be constructed within the property
to separate driving and parking areas from landscaped areas.
         (d)   All areas of the property not devoted to buildings or parking
areas shall be landscaped in accordance with this section.
         (e)   The required off-street parking for customers and employees
shall be designated on the site plan and located close to the sales building.
         (f)   Each space used as parking for a “for sale” motor vehicle, boat,
or trailer shall not be less than 9 feet wide by 18.5 feet in length.
         (g)   Display of motor vehicles, boats, and trailers for sale off the
property of the owner is prohibited unless authorized by conditional use
permit.
      (9)   Accessory buildings in compliance with §
153.031.
      (10)   Parking garages and ramps, subject to the following:
         (a)   To avoid excessive site coverage, off-street parking
requirements may be furnished by providing fee-free space underground, within
the principal building or structures, or attached thereto.
         (b)   Parking ramps and garages shall be set back from lot lines as
required for the principal building on the lot, or as required for parking
spaces specified by this section, whichever is greater.
         (c)   Off-street parking ramps and garages shall be designed in
compliance with the applicable dimensional requirements except the City Council
may approve a variation from standard dimensions for a portion of the stalls to
be designated as compact spaces.
         (d)   Parking ramps and garages shall be designed so that circulation
between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated parking lot upon
the property being serviced and does not depend upon a public street or alley.
A parking area design that requires backing into the public street is
prohibited.
         (e)   The grade elevation of the required parking area or portion
thereof shall not exceed 5%.
      (11)   Planned unit developments, as regulated by §
153.055.
      (12)   Seasonal outdoor sales, subject to the following:
         (a)   Seasonal outdoor retail sales shall not exceed a combined total
of 120 days in any 12-month period. Outdoor retail sales shall not occupy more
than 10% of a lot’s area, and shall meet all yard setback requirements.
         (b)   Where seasonal outdoor retail sales are conducted in a parking
lot, they shall be confined to a defined area, and not be allowed to obstruct
access of emergency vehicles or pose a traffic safety problem. Temporary
fencing or other suitable mechanisms shall be used to delineate the sales area
and provide for pedestrian safety.
         (c)   Where tents, trailers, temporary greenhouses, or similar
structures are used to store, and/or display merchandise, they shall be
anchored to provide a wind-load resistance of 40 miles per hour.
         (d)   Any tent, trailer, temporary greenhouse or similar structure
must be locked and secured outside of business hours.
      (13)   Day care - group nursery.
   (E)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   The following minimum requirements shall be met in the GB District:
Minimum lot size            40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width           150 feet
Minimum lot depth           100 feet
Structure setbacks:
   Front                 25 feet or in conformance with surrounding area
   Side                  10 feet
   Rear                  10 feet
   Side or rear from stre20 feet
   From residential      30 feet
Maximum building height     35 feet
 
      (2)   Properties may also be subject to the requirements of the Shoreland
Overlay District, §
153.054.
   (F)   Building design standards.
      (1)   Quality. Buildings shall maintain a high standard of architectural
and aesthetic compatibility with surrounding properties to ensure that they
will not adversely impact the abutting properties.
      (2)   Exterior finishes. The following materials are permitted for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Stone or glass curtain walls;
         (d)   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use and wood
of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood, or cypress;
         (e)   Break-off block;
         (f)   Stucco; and
         (g)   Precast concrete and integral colored concrete block, provided
surfaces are molded, serrated or treated with a textured material to create a
3-dimensional character.
         (h)   Curtain wall panels of steel, metal, or aluminum provided the
panels are factory fabricated and of a high-quality material with a matte or
non-lustre finish. These structures will require decorative design elements as
approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Prohibited materials. The following materials are prohibited for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face material that rapidly deteriorate or become unsightly such
as exposed cinder blocks, galvanized metal, unfinished tile, and common clay
brick.
      (4)   Building construction prohibited.
         (a)   Temporary construction.
   (G)   Landscape standards.
      (1)   A landscape plan, showing how the site meets all landscape
requirements must be submitted at the time of building permit. The plan shall
include all landscaping, screening and erosion control plans and shall be
prepared and signed by a registered landscape architect or professional site
planner with educational training or work experience in land analysis and site
plan preparation. At a minimum, the plans shall include the following:
         (a)   A detailed land analysis including existing vegetation, soil
types, topography and all man-made features.
         (b)   Details of proposed vegetative landscaping materials including
placement, Latin name, common name, caliper/height and quantity.
         (c)   Details of proposed non-vegetative landscaping and screening
materials.
         (d)   Details of proposed erosion control methods.
         (e)   Planting and construction schedule for completion of landscaping
and screening plans.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum of 10% green space on every lot.
      (3)   A minimum of 1 deciduous and 1 coniferous tree for every 25,000
square feet, or fraction thereof, of lot area.
      (4)   Properties are also subject to the erosion control standards
requirements of §
153.086.
   (H)   Landscaping security.
      (1)   The owner shall file with the City Clerk security in the form of a
letter of credit or cash deposit as determined by the City Council, to ensure
that the landscaping, screening and erosion control work is done pursuant to
the landscaping plan within the time schedule, and to ensure that the
vegetative materials used in any landscaping, screening or erosion control work
that die within 2 complete growing seasons are replaced.
      (2)   The security shall be in a amount determined by the City Council,
but shall be at least equal to the amount estimated to be the cost of
completing the required landscaping, screening and erosion control measures and
not to exceed twice such amount.
      (3)   Where such landscaping, screening and erosion control measures do
not include the use of vegetative materials, the security shall be in force
until such landscaping; screening or erosion control measures have been
completed and approved by the City Council. Where such landscaping, screening
and erosion control measures do include the use of vegetative materials, the
security shall be in force for at least the next 2 complete growing seasons,
subsequent to the completion and approval of such landscaping; screening or
erosion control measures have been completed and approved by the City Council.
      (4)   Upon completion of the landscaping, screening and erosion control
work, the security will be reduced to an amount determined adequate to replace
vegetative material that may die within 2 complete growing seasons.
      (5)   Such security shall be filed with the City Clerk before a building
permit can be issued.
   (I)   Screening.
      (1)   On any property line that abuts a residential parcel, screening of
at least 6 feet in height shall provide a minimum of 80% opacity year-round.
      (2)   Screening shall be installed so as to block direct vision, and
shall consist of 1 or a combination of the following:
         (a)   A compact evergreen or deciduous hedge and over and understory
trees in a buffer strip at least 10 feet in width. At planting, hedge material
must be at least 2.5 feet in height.
         (b)   A fence or wall in conjunction with landscaping. With this
combination the required width of the buffer strip may be reduced to 5 feet.
         (c)   Earth berms - not to exceed a 3:1 slope or 4 feet in height.
      (3)   Chain link fencing is allowed only in combination with screening.
Plastic or vinyl inserts are prohibited.
      (4)   Dumpsters and/or trash/recycling receptacles shall be stored inside
the principal structure or if outside shall only be located on a non-street
side of the building, except for during trash pickup time.
      (5)   Any dumpsters and/or trash/recycling receptacles located along a
street side shall be screened by a wall of at least 6 feet in height which
matches the material, design and color of the principal building or stored
within an accessory structure constructed of building materials compatible with
the principal structure, and readily served through swinging doors or an
overhead door on tracks. Storage containers must have covers or enclosure has
to have a roof.
      (6)   All rooftop mechanical equipment greater than 3 feet in height must
be screened from view by a method which matches that material, design and color
of the building upon which it is located.
   (J)   Parking and loading spaces.
      (1)   Loading docks are not permitted in front yards.
      (2)   Properties are also subject to the requirements of “Off-Street
Parking and Loading,” §§
153.110 et seq.
   (K)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   A lighting plan, showing how the site meets all lighting
requirements must be submitted at the time of site plan submittal.
      (2)   Intensity.
         (a)   No more than 0.5 foot candles of light where residential zoning
abuts and no more than 1.0 foot candles of light where other zoning abuts shall
be allowed at the property line, when measured at eye level and aimed at the
light source.
         (b)   In parking areas and walkways, downward focused lighting shall
be provided by cutoff type luminaries with no more than 10% of light output
above the horizontal plane through the light source.
      (3)   Height. Light fixtures and freestanding luminaries shall not exceed
20 feet or extend above the roofline of the principal building, whichever is
less.
      (4)   Accent lighting. Accent lighting used to highlight selected
landscape or architectural features shall be permitted provided the light
source is shielded to aim directly at the area of focus.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2341.png]
NOT TO SCALE
(Ord. 2021-8-4, passed 8-10-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-5-11, passed 5-10-2022; Am.
Ord. 2023-1-2, passed 1-10-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-7-1, passed 7-9-2024)
§ 153.052 I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.  To provide an attractive, high quality light industrial park
primarily for manufacturing and assembly, warehousing and limited retail uses
in developments which provide a harmonious transition to residential
development and neighborhoods by:
      (1)   Conducting essentially all business activities inside buildings.
      (2)   Consisting of high quality and attractive buildings which blend in
with the environment.
      (3)   Providing open space and quality landscaping which achieve a park
like setting.
      (4)   Screening of parking, loading docks, and other similar functions.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Light industrial uses that are low impact and advanced technology
uses which produce little or no noise, odor, vibration, glare, or other
objectionable influences as defined in the city code, and which have little or
no adverse effect on surrounding properties when manufacturing or assembling a
wide variety of products. Light industrial uses do not include processing
outside of an enclosed structure.
      (2)   Shops and offices for contractors and trades, including general,
electrical, plumbing, automotive repair, heating and ventilating, landscape and
excavating, and businesses that support them.
      (3)   Offices, warehouses, and distribution facilities, including office
warehouses and office showrooms.
      (4)   Sports and recreation facilities including ice arena.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Radio and television receiving antennas include single satellite
dish TVROs 2 meters or less in diameter, short-wave radio dispatching antennas,
or those necessary for the operation of electronic equipment including radio
receivers, federally licensed amateur radio stations, and television receivers,
as regulated by the city code.
      (2)   Accessory and secondary use antennas as regulated by the city code.
      (3)   Personal wireless service antennas and antenna support structures
located on a structure as regulated by the city code.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses in the LI
District and require a conditional use permit following the procedures of this
section:
      (1)   Retail uses.
      (2)   Outside storage.
      (3)   Private water supply system pursuant to §
51.11(C).
   (E)   Lot requirements, setbacks, and outside storage. The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in the LI District subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this section:
      (1)   Minimum lot area:   20, 000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width:   100 feet.
      (3)   Building setbacks:   Each building in the LI District shall have
the following minimum setbacks from the property line:
         (a)   Front yard:      50 feet; FRONT is defined as the side of the
building facing the street. On corner lots, the front side is defined as the
side having the building’s address.
         (b)   Side yard:      20 feet when the side faces the exterior of the
park; 10 feet when the side faces the interior of the park; 30 feet when the
side abuts a street or residential area.
         (c)   Rear yard:      20 feet; 30 feet when the rear abuts a street.
      (4)   Maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
      (5)   Properties may also be subject to the requirements of the Shoreland
Overlay District, §
153.054.
      (6)   Conditions on outside storage of material or finished product.
         (a)   Outside storage of materials or finished product may not exceed
40% of the area of a lot that is 5 or more acres.
         (b)   Outside storage of materials or finished product may not exceed
75% of the footprint of the building on lots smaller than 5 acres and may never
exceed 40% of the area of the lot.
         (c)   All outside storage shall be screened from view by dense
vegetative screening or other approved screening method.
         (d)   All outside storage areas shall be completely surfaced with
asphalt or concrete and be surrounded by perimeter concrete curbing.
         (e)   Storage must be located to the rear or side of the principal
building on the site.
         (f)   Chain link fencing is allowed along with screening. Plastic or
vinyl inserts are prohibited.
         (g)   No outside processing of materials or repair is permitted.
         (h)   All refuse containers, if not located within a building, shall
be completely enclosed to shield the view of the containers from all sides and
any container shall not be closer than 5 feet to any structure or building
overhang. The location of any outside storage shall be identified on the site
plan.
   (F)   Building design standards.
      (1)   Quality. Buildings shall maintain a high standard of architectural
and aesthetic compatibility with surrounding properties to ensure that they
will not adversely impact the abutting properties.
      (2)   Exterior finishes. The following materials are permitted for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Stone or glass curtain walls;
         (d)   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use and wood
of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood, or cypress;
         (e)   Break-off block;
         (f)   Stucco; and
         (g)   Precast concrete and integral colored concrete block, provided
surfaces are molded, serrated or treated with a textured material to create a
3-dimensional character.
         (h)   Curtain wall panels of steel, metal, or aluminum provided the
panels are factory fabricated and of a high-quality material with a matte or
non-lustre finish. These structures will require decorative design elements as
approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Prohibited materials. The following materials are prohibited for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face material that rapidly deteriorate or become unsightly such
as exposed cinder blocks, galvanized metal, unfinished tile, and common clay
brick.
         (b)   Structures that have only an outside skin.
      (4)   Building construction prohibited.
         (a)   Temporary construction.
      (5)   Loading and unloading.
         (a)   Each building or structure in the LI District shall be so
located on the lot it occupies to allow off- street loading and unloading. The
use of the street for loading or unloading is prohibited.
         (b)   No loading docks shall be located to the front of any building
in the LI District.
         (c)   No loading or unloading shall take place in front of any
building in the LI District.
   (G)   Landscaping standards and requirements.
      (1)   Landscaping shall be required for all areas within the LI District.
There shall be a minimum of 20% green space required on every lot.
      (2)   Landscaping shall consist of trees, shrubs, planted ground cover
and other vegetative material. All proposed deciduous trees shall be a minimum
of 2-1/2 caliper inches measured 2 feet off the ground and all coniferous trees
shall be a minimum of 6 feet in height at time of planting. Acceptable trees
are listed in the city code.
      (3)   A minimum of 2 trees shall be required for every 20,000 square feet
(or fraction of that) of lot area.
      (4)   Ornamental non-vegetative landscaping material may be used in
addition to vegetative materials not withstanding the above requirements.
      (5)   All developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard along all
streets. This yard shall be at least 10 feet deep, measured from the street
right-of-way line. This yard shall be kept clear of all structures, storage and
off-street parking. Except for driveways, the yard shall extend along the
entire frontage of the lot and along both streets in the case of a comer lot.
Each side yard shall have a minimum of 10 feet and each rear yard shall have a
minimum of 20 feet of landscaped area measured off the property line.
      (6)   All required landscaped yards and boulevards not otherwise devoted
to drives, sidewalks or trails shall be sodded.
      (7)   All open areas of any site, lot or parcel not otherwise improved
shall be graded to provide adequate drainage and shall be landscaped. Such
landscaping shall conform to the landscaping plan approved by the city at the
time the building permit was issued.
      (8)   No earth mounds shall be higher than 4 feet in height.
      (9)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner to see that the
landscaping is maintained in an attractive and well kept condition, and to
replace any landscaping that dies.
      (10)   Unless otherwise required in this division (G), all other
landscaping provisions of the city code must be met.
      (11)   Turf must be established by the use of sod on all lots within 60
days, excluding the time between October 1 and May 1, of issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
   (H)   Screening standards and requirements.
      (1)    Screening shall be installed so as to block direct vision. It
shall consist of 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   A fence or wall not less than 5 feet high, but not extending
within 15 feet of any street.
         (b)   Compact evergreen or deciduous hedge and over and under story
trees in a buffer strip at least 10 feet in width. At planting, hedge material
must be at least 2-1/2 feet in height and deciduous trees must be at least 5
feet in height with a minimum of 2-1/2 caliper inches measured 2 feet off the
ground. Coniferous trees must be at least 6 feet in height.
         (c)   Earth berms.
      (2)   The screening shall be placed along property lines or in the case
of screening along a street, 15 feet from the street right-of way line.
      (3)   Where any lot is adjacent to property developed for residential
use, the owner shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential
property.
      (4)   Where any off-street parking area contains more than 4 parking
spaces, partial screening with vegetation and/or berms shall be placed on any
side adjoining a residential use or a public street.
      (5)   All loading docks shall be screened from view on the property’s
street frontages or from the districts boundary by a wall, earth berms or plant
material or a combination of these at least 5 feet in height. Such walls shall
be designed to be harmonious with the structure having the loading dock.
      (6)   All mechanical equipment located around the perimeter of a
structure shall be screened.
      (7) Dumpsters and/or trash/recycling receptacles shall be stored inside
the principal structure or if outside shall only be located on a non-street
side of the building, except for during trash pickup time.
      (8)   Any dumpsters and/or trash/recycling receptacles located along a
street side shall be screened by a wall of at least 6 feet in height which
matches the material, design and color of the principal building or stored
within an accessory structure constructed of building materials compatible with
the principal structure, and readily served through swinging doors or an
overhead door on tracks. Storage containers must have covers or enclosure has
to have a roof.
      (9)   All exterior storage shall be screened from view with exception of:
         (a)   Merchandise being displayed.
         (b)   Materials and equipment being used for construction on premises.
      (10)   Screening devices shall be included in the site and/or landscaping
plans.
      (11)   Unless otherwise required in this division (H), all other
screening provisions of the city code must be met.
   (I)   Landscaping and screening plan.
      (1)   Complete landscaping, screening and erosion control plans shall be
prepared and signed by a landscape architect or professional site planner with
educational training or work experience in land analysis and site plan
preparation. These plans shall include:
         (a)   Detailed natural land analysis including vegetation, soil types
and slopes.
         (b)   Manmade features.
         (c)   Details of all proposed vegetative landscaping materials
including placement, Latin name, common name, caliper/height and quantity.
         (d)   Details of proposed non-vegetative landscaping and screening
materials.
         (e)   Planting and construction schedule for completion of landscaping
and screening plans.
      (2)   The final landscaping and screening plan must be approved by the
City Council at the time of site plan review.
   (J)   Landscaping security.
      (1)   The owner shall file with the City Clerk security in the form of a
letter of credit or cash deposit as determined by the City Council, to ensure
that the landscaping, screening and erosion control work is done pursuant to
the landscaping plan within the time schedule, and to ensure that the
vegetative materials used in any landscaping, screening or erosion control work
that die within 2 complete growing seasons are replaced.
      (2)   The security shall be in an amount determined by the City Council,
but shall be at least equal to the amount estimated to be the cost of
completing the required landscaping, screening and erosion control measures and
not to exceed twice such amount.
      (3)   Where such landscaping, screening and erosion control measures do
not include the use of vegetative materials, the security shall be in force
until such landscaping; screening or erosion control measures have been
completed and approved by the City Council. Where such landscaping, screening
and erosion control measures do include the use of vegetative materials, the
security shall be in force for at least the next 2 complete growing seasons,
subsequent to the completion and approval of such landscaping; screening or
erosion control measures have been completed and approved by the City Council.
      (4)   Upon completion of the landscaping, screening and erosion control
work, the security will be reduced to an amount determined adequate to replace
vegetative material that may die within 2 complete growing seasons.
      (5)   Such security shall be filed with the City Clerk before a building
permit can be issued.
   (K)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   A lighting plan, showing how the site meets all lighting
requirements must be submitted at the time of site plan submittal.
      (2)   Intensity.
         (a)   No more than 0.5 foot candles of light where residential zoning
abuts and no more than 1.0 foot candles of light where other zoning abuts shall
be allowed at the property line, when measured at eye level and aimed at the
light source.
         (b)   In parking areas and walkways, downward focused lighting shall
be provided by cutoff type luminaries with no more than 10% of light output
above the horizontal plane through the light source.
      (3)   Height. Light fixtures and freestanding luminaries shall not exceed
20 feet or extend above the roofline of the principal building, whichever is
less.
      (4)   Accent lighting. Accent lighting used to highlight selected
landscape or architectural features shall be permitted provided the light
source is shielded to aim directly at the area of focus.
(Ord. 2021-8-5, passed 8-10-2021)
§ 153.053 LI LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I Industrial District is established to provide exemplary
standards of development for industrial areas, to ensure compatibility with
other land uses and to provide for industrial employment opportunities for
residents of the community.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   Minimum lot area:      13,000 square feet;
      (2)   Minimum lot width:      100 feet;
      (3)   Front yard setback:      25 feet; when abutting residentially zoned
property, the front yard setback shall conform to the established front yard
setback in the block;
      (4)   Rear yard setback:      25 feet; when abutting residentially zoned
property, the rear yard setback shall be 30 feet, and no storage or parking of
vehicles shall be permitted within 10 feet of the rear lot line. There shall be
a 10 foot (minimum) landscaped buffer strip along the rear lot line.
      (5)   Side yard setback:      10 feet interior; 15 feet when abutting a
residentially zoned lot; 15 feet corner.
   (C)   No unenclosed use. All manufacturing or processing shall be conducted
completely within enclosed buildings.
   (D)   Landscaping. Substantial landscaping and screening shall be installed
and maintained on industrial sites adjacent to residential districts to
effectively separate the uses and promote the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (E)   Permitted principal uses. Some may require a conditional use permit.
      (1)   Art equipment supplies - manufacture.
      (2)   Bags, boxes and paper containers, manufacturing and storage.
      (3)   Bakery products.
      (4)   Bottling establishments.
      (5)   Bland books, loose-leaf binders - fabrication and assembly.
      (6)   Books and bookbinding.
      (7)   Cabinet and woodworking establishments.
      (8)   Clothing manufacture.
      (9)   Camera and photographic manufacturing.
      (10)   Cold storage plants, locker plants.
      (11)   Commercial printing, publishing, engraving and reproduction firms.
      (12)   Confectionery and related products, manufacture and packaging.
      (13)   Creameries, milk stations, bottling works.
      (14)   Dental instruments and supplies.
      (15)   Dry cleaning and dying establishments.
      (16)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment - manufacture.
      (17)   Electric measuring and testing equipment - manufacture.
      (18)   Electronic tubes and other components - manufacture.
      (19)   Electrical products and appliances - manufacture and assembly.
      (20)   Express and hauling stations.
      (21)   Grain and seed elevators.
      (22)   Hand and edge tools - manufacture and assembly.
      (23)   Ice plants and ice cream plants.
      (24)   Jewelry manufacture.
      (25)   Laboratory instruments and associated equipment, scientific, and
testing.
      (26)   Laundries.
      (27)   Luggage, handbags, and similar items - manufacture and assembly.
      (28)   Lumber yards.
      (29)   Mail order houses.
      (30)   Medical and surgical instruments and supplies.
      (31)   Newspaper plants and offices.
      (32)   Office furniture and supplies.
      (33)   Optical instruments and lenses - manufacture and assembly.
      (34)   Patterns - design and manufacture.
      (35)   Pottery shops.
      (36)   Precision instruments.
      (37)   Plastic extrusion and molding fixture.
      (38)   Processing and storage plants not involving a discharge of noxious
to toxic matter.
      (39)   Public garages.
      (40)   Radio and television - assembly and parts fabrication.
      (41)   Sport equipment - manufacture and assembly.
      (42)   Scientific and research instruments and equipment - manufacture
and assembly.
      (43)   Signs and advertising display materials - manufacture.
      (44)   Supply yards.
      (45)   Storehouses, warehouses.
      (46)   Telephone and telegraph technical apparatus - manufacture and
assembly.
      (47)   Temperature controls - fabrication and assembly.
      (48)   Trade schools.
      (49)   Truck terminals.
      (50)   Warehousing.
      (51)   Welding supply.
      (52)   Wholesale business facilities.
      (53)   “Adult uses” subject to the requirements of
Chapter 96 of the city code.
      (54)   Micro distillery or brewery.
   (F)   Permitted accessory uses.
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading, as required in this chapter.
      (2)   Nameplate and business signs, as per §§
153.090 through
153.105.
   (G)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit.
      (1)   Heavy manufacturing or any use involving pollution or other
hazards.
      (2)   Junk yards, auto reduction yards, and open storage yards.
      (3)   Private water supply system pursuant to §
51.11(C).
      (4)   Other manufacture, processing, storage, or commercial uses
determined by the Planning Commission to be of the same general character as
the permitted uses above and found not to be obnoxious, unhealthful, or
offensive by reason of the potential emission or transmission of noise,
oxidation, smoke, dust, odors, toxic or noxious matter, or glare or heat.
      (5)   Properties may also be subject to the requirements of the Shoreland
Overlay District, §
153.054.
      (6)   Conditions on outside storage of material or finished product.
         (a)   Outside storage of materials or finished product may not exceed
40% of the area of a lot that is 5 or more acres.
         (b)   Outside storage of materials or finished product may not exceed
75% of the footprint of the building on lots smaller than 5 acres and may never
exceed 40% of the area of the lot.
         (c)   All outside storage shall be screened from view by dense
vegetative screening or other approved screening method.
   (H)   Building design standards.
      (1)   Quality. Buildings shall maintain a high standard of architectural
and aesthetic compatibility with surrounding properties to ensure that they
will not adversely impact the abutting properties.
      (2)   Exterior finishes. The following materials are permitted for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Stone or glass curtain walls;
         (d)   Wood, provided surfaces are finished for exterior use and wood
of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood, or cypress;
         (e)   Break-off block;
         (f)   Stucco; and
         (g)   Precast concrete and integral colored concrete block, provided
surfaces are molded, serrated or treated with a textured material to create a
3-dimensional character.
         (h)   Curtain wall panels of steel, metal, or aluminum provided the
panels are factory fabricated and of a high-quality material with a matte or
non-lustre finish. These structures will require decorative design elements as
approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Prohibited materials. The following materials are prohibited for
exterior finishes:
         (a)   Face material that rapidly deteriorate or become unsightly such
as exposed cinder blocks, galvanized metal, unfinished tile, and common clay
brick.
      (4)   Building construction prohibited.
         (a)   Temporary construction.
   (I)   Landscaping and screening plan.
      (1)   Complete landscaping, screening and erosion control plans shall be
prepared and signed by a landscape architect or professional site planner with
educational training or work experience in land analysis and site plan
preparation. These plans shall include:
         (a)   Detailed natural land analysis including vegetation, soil types
and slopes.
         (b)   Manmade features.
         (c)   Details of all proposed vegetative landscaping materials
including placement, Latin name, common name, caliper/height and quantity.
         (d)   Details of proposed non-vegetative landscaping and screening
materials.
         (e)   Planting and construction schedule for completion of landscaping
and screening plans.
      (2)   The final landscaping and screening plan must be approved by the
City Council at the time of site plan review.
   (J)   Landscaping security.
      (1)   The owner shall file with the City Clerk security in the form of a
letter of credit or cash deposit as determined by the City Council, to ensure
that the landscaping, screening and erosion control work is done pursuant to
the landscaping plan within the time schedule, and to ensure that the
vegetative materials used in any landscaping, screening or erosion control work
that die within 2 complete growing seasons are replaced.
      (2)   The security shall be in a amount determined by the City Council,
but shall be at least equal to the amount estimated to be the cost of
completing the required landscaping, screening and erosion control measures and
not to exceed twice such amount.
      (3)   Where such landscaping, screening and erosion control measures do
not include the use of vegetative materials, the security shall be in force
until such landscaping; screening or erosion control measures have been
completed and approved by the City Council. Where such landscaping, screening
and erosion control measures do include the use of vegetative materials, the
security shall be in force for at least the next 2 complete growing seasons,
subsequent to the completion and approval of such landscaping; screening or
erosion control measures have been completed and approved by the City Council.
      (4)   Upon completion of the landscaping, screening and erosion control
work, the security will be reduced to an amount determined adequate to replace
vegetative material that may die within 2 complete growing seasons.
      (5)   Such security shall be filed with the City Clerk before a building
permit can be issued.
   (K)   Outdoor lighting.
      (1)   A lighting plan, showing how the site meets all lighting
requirements must be submitted at the time of site plan submittal.
      (2)   Intensity.
         (a)   No more than 0.5 foot candles of light where residential zoning
abuts and no more than 1.0 foot candles of light where other zoning abuts shall
be allowed at the property line, when measured at eye level and aimed at the
light source.
         (b)   In parking areas and walkways, downward focused lighting shall
be provided by cutoff type luminaries with no more than 10% of light output
above the horizontal plane through the light source.
      (3)   Height. Light fixtures and freestanding luminaries shall not exceed
20 feet or extend above the roofline of the principal building, whichever is
less.
      (4)   Accent lighting. Accent lighting used to highlight selected
landscape or architectural features shall be permitted provided the light
source is shielded to aim directly at the area of focus.
(Ord. 2021-8-6, passed 8-10-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-5-11, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 153.054 SL SHORELAND DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Shoreland District is to govern the use,
alteration and development of shoreland areas, according to the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   District application. The SL Shoreland District shall be applied to
and superimposed upon all zoning districts as contained herein as existing or
amended by the text and map of this chapter. The regulations and requirements
imposed by the SL Shoreland District shall be in addition to those established
for districts which jointly apply. Under the joint application of districts,
the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (C)   Boundaries. The boundaries of the Shoreland District are established
within the following distances from the normal high water mark of the surface
water depending on the size of the surface water: greater than 10 acres - 1,000
feet; rivers and streams - 300 feet. The practical limits of shorelands may be
less than the statutory limits whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the waters of lesser distances
and which are approved by the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   (D)   Shoreland classification.
      (1)   The surface waters affected by this section and which require
controlled development of their shoreland (Shoreland District) are shown on the
map entitled “Zoning Map of the City of Stacy, Minnesota” which is properly
approved and made a part of this chapter. Surface waters generally greater than
10 acres and given an identification number by the State of Minnesota are
listed in the table below. Where the boundaries of the district are in
question, the Board of Appeals shall make the necessary interpretation. If any
boundary is disputed, the burden of proof shall rest with the applicant.
 
Surface Water Identification
DNR Identification No. Name                         Classification
                       Sunrise Pools (East of T.H.  Natural Environment (NE)
13-59                  30 and North and South of    Lake
                       Hwy. 19)
                       Unnamed Lake (approximately
13-61                  2,500 feet North of Hwy. 19, General Development
                       East of I-35, and West of T.
                       H. 30)
 
      (2)   All rivers and streams (West Branch, Sunrise River) in the
municipality of Stacy having a total drainage area of greater than 2 square
miles are assigned a shoreland classification of general development.
   (E)   Minimum requirements. The following table sets forth the minimum
requirements of each classification. Where the requirements of the zoning
district are more restrictive, the more restrictive standards shall apply.
Unsewered Areas Natural Environment Waters** General Development Waters***
Unsewered Areas             Natural Environment General Development
                            Waters**            Waters***
Lot area (sq. ft.)          80,000              20,000
Water frontage and lot
width at building line      200                 100
(ft.)
Building setback from
ordinary highwater mark     200                 75
(ft.)
Building setback from roads 50 federal, state or county; 20 municipal
and highways (ft.)          or private
Elevation of lowest floor
above highest known water   3                   3
level (ft.)
Building height limitation  35                  35
(ft.)
Total lot area covered by   30                  30
impervious surface (%)
Sewage system setback from
ordinary high water mark    150                 50
(ft.)
Sewage system elevation
above highest groundwater   4                   4
level or bedrock (ft.)
 
 
Sewered Areas*               Natural Environment Waters** General Development
                                                          Waters***
Lot area (sq. ft.)
Waterfront lots              40,000                       15,000
Other lots                   20,000                       10,000
Water frontage and lot width 125                          75
at building line (ft.)
Building setback from
ordinary high water mark     150                          50
(ft.)
 
*   All provisions for unsewered areas shall apply to sewered areas except for
the following which shall supersede the provisions applied to unsewered areas.
**   Sunrise Pools
***   Unnamed lake and West Branch - Sunrise River
   (D)   Soil absorption systems. Soil absorption systems shall not be allowed
in the following areas for disposal of domestic sewage:
      (1)   Low swampy areas or areas subject to recurrent flooding;
      (2)   Areas where the highest known ground water table, bedrock or
impervious soil conditions are within 4 feet of the bottom of the system;
      (3)   Areas of ground slope which create a danger of seepage of the
effluent onto the surface of the ground;
      (4)   Public sewage disposal and commercial, agricultural, solid waste
and industrial waste disposal shall conform to the standards, criteria, rules
and regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency;
      (5)   Alternative methods of sewage disposal such as holding tanks,
privies, electric or gas incinerators may be allowed, provided they meet the
standards and regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and
Department of Health;
      (6)   All individual septic tanks, or soil absorption systems, shall be a
minimum of 50 feet from the nearest well.
   (G)   Nonconforming sanitary systems.
      (1)   Nonconforming septic systems shall be brought into conformity
within 5 years from adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   Private wells shall be placed in areas not subject to flooding or
upslope from a source of contamination. Private wells must meet all Department
of Health Standards.
   (H)   Shoreland alterations. Natural vegetation in shoreland areas shall be
preserved insofar as practical and reasonable in order to retard surface runoff
and soil erosion and to utilize excess nutrients. Any alteration of the
vegetation or natural terrain in the Shoreland District shall be controlled by
issuance of a landscape permit by the city. An approved permit shall be
acquired before any shoreland alterations are undertaken as defined in this
section. An alteration is defined as any clear-cutting, grading, and the like
which involves the removal or addition of underbrush or vegetation which may
have a detrimental impact by allowing soil erosion or runoff of excess
nutrients to enter the public waters. The issuance of a landscape permit shall
be controlled by this section in accordance with the following criteria:
      (1)   Clear cutting shall be prohibited, except as necessary for placing
public roads, utilities, structures, and parking areas;
      (2)   Natural vegetation shall be restored insofar as feasible after any
construction project;
      (3)   Selective cutting of trees and underbrush shall be allowed as long
as sufficient cover is left to screen motor vehicles and structures when viewed
from the water;
      (4)   Grading and filling of a permanent nature: where more than 10 yards
of material is to be cut, filled or graded, a landscape permit shall be
obtained from the city. This landscape permit shall be issued only if the
applicant can demonstrate that:
         (a)   The smallest amount of bare ground shall be exposed for as short
a time as feasible;
         (b)   Temporary ground cover, such as mulch, shall be used and
permanent vegetative cover, such as sod, shall be provided;
         (c)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment shall be employed;
         (d)   Fill shall be stabilized to accepted engineering standards;
         (e)   Failure to acquire the necessary landscape permit shall be in
violation of this chapter.
   (I)   Land suitability - SL Districts. No land shall be subdivided which is
held unsuitable by the city for the proposed use because of flooding,
inadequate drainage, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development, severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water
supply or sewage disposal capabilities, or any other feature likely to be
harmful to the health, safety, or welfare of future residents.
   (J)   Inconsistent plats. All plats recommended for approval which are
inconsistent with the municipal shoreland ordinance shall be reviewed by the
Minnesota Commissioner of Natural Resources before approval by the city may be
granted.
   (K)   Planned unit developments. These shoreland management regulations may
be altered to allow for planned unit developments as defined by this chapter,
provided:
      (1)   Preliminary plans are approved by the Department of Natural
Resources prior to approval by the city;
      (2)   Central sewage facilities are installed which meet all applicable
standards and regulations or the planned unit development is connected to
municipal sewer;
      (3)   Open space is preserved as appropriate;
      (4)   The increased density of development is consistent with and does
not overburden the resource limitations of the public water or shorelands;
      (5)   That all shoreline development such as docks be centralized
facilities serving the entire planned unit development; and
      (6)   That the final plan shall not be altered unless approved by the
developer, city, and the Department of Natural Resources.
   (L)   Variances. Variances may be granted by the Council upon application
required in this chapter in extraordinary cases, but only when the proposed use
is determined to be in the public interest, and no variance shall be granted
which the Council determines will or has a tendency to:
      (1)   Result in the placement of an artificial obstruction which will
restrict the passage of storm and flood water in such a manner as to increase
the height of flooding, except obstructions approved by the Watershed Districts
in conjunction with sound flood plain management;
      (2)   Result in incompatible land uses or which would be detrimental to
the protection of surface and ground water supplies;
      (3)   Be not in keeping with land use plans and planning objectives for
the city or which will increase or cause danger to life or property;
      (4)   Be inconsistent with the objectives of encouraging land uses
compatible with the preservation of the natural land forms, vegetation, and the
marshes and wetlands within the city;
      (5)   No permit or variance shall be issued unless the applicant has
submitted a shoreland impact plan as required and set forth in this chapter. In
granting any variance, the Council may attach such conditions as they deem
necessary to insure compliance with the policy and intent of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 903.09)
§ 153.055 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of the Planned Unit Development
District (PUD) is to provide a comprehensive procedure intended to allow
greater flexibility in the development of neighborhoods or non-residential
areas than would be possible under a conventional zoning district. The decision
to zone property to PUD is a public policy decision for the City Council to
make in its legislative capacity. The intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Provide for the establishment of Planned Unit Development (PUD)
zoning districts in appropriate settings and situations, to create or maintain
a development pattern that complies with the city's comprehensive plan.
      (2)   Allow for the mixing of land uses within a development when such
mixing of land uses could not otherwise be accomplished under this chapter.
      (3)   Provide for variations to the strict application of the land use
regulations in this chapter in order to improve site design and operation,
while at the same time incorporating design elements (e.g., construction
materials, landscaping, lighting, etc.) that exceed the city's standards to
offset the effect of any variations.
      (4)   Promote a more creative and efficient approach to land use within
the city, while at the same time protecting and promoting the health, safety,
comfort, aesthetics, economic viability, and general welfare of the city.
      (5)   Preserve and enhance natural features and open spaces.
      (6)   Maintain or improve the efficiency of public streets and utilities.
      (7)   Ensure the establishment of appropriate transitions between
differing land uses.
      (8)   Provide some additional, identifiable benefit to the city or future
residents, users, or patrons of the PUD beyond what would be achieved by
application of a standard plat under the city's regulations.
   (B)   Uses. All permitted uses, permitted accessory uses, conditional uses,
interim uses, and uses allowed by administrative permit contained in this
chapter shall be treated as potentially allowable uses within a PUD District,
provided they would be allowable on the site under the city's comprehensive
plan.
   (C)   Setbacks, lot area, and building height. The various setback, lot
area, and height regulations of the most closely related conventional zoning
district shall be considered presumptively appropriate, but may be departed
from to accomplish the purposes described in this section, providing there is
no increase in density of more than 10%.
   (D)   Integrated design. A PUD shall consist of a harmonious arrangement and
selection of land uses in groupings of buildings that are planned and designed
as an integrated unit. The integrated design shall include elements such as
building orientation and materials, utilities, parking areas, traffic and
pedestrian circulation, and open spaces.
   (E)   Pre-application sketch review. Prior to the filing of a PUD general
plan application, the applicant may submit a sketch of the project to the
Zoning Administrator. The sketch will be reviewed in accordance with § 
153.193(C).
   (F)   General plan. A PUD general plan is a plan and supportive text
depicting general land use, circulation, open space, utilities, etc. for
parcels of land within a PUD.
      (1)   Application procedure: PUD zoning applications shall be processed
according to the evaluation criteria and procedures outlined in §
153.191 of this chapter. The general plan shall be accompanied by a fee and a
cash escrow as set forth in Chapter 34 of the City Code.
      (2)   Information requirement:
         (a)   The information required for all PUD general plan applications
shall be as specified in §
153.192.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, and/or City
Council may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific item of
information or document required by this section which it finds to be
unnecessary to the consideration of the specific PUD being considered.
      (3)   Zoning enactment. A rezoning of a parcel of land to PUD shall not
become effective until such time as the City Council approves an ordinance
reflecting said amendment, which shall take place at the time the City Council
approves the general plan.
   (G)   Final plan. After approval of the general plan, the applicant may
apply for final plan approval for all or a portion of the PUD. The final plan
shall be accompanied by a fee as set forth in
Chapter 34 of the City Code. The applicant shall submit the following material
for review by and approval of the Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of any
building permit(s).
      (1)   If the PUD will be developed in different phases, the applicant
shall submit a phasing plan for construction of the various elements of the
entire PUD.
      (2)   Development plans in final form, based on the approved general
plan, covering that portion of the PUD where building permits will be requested
under the phasing plan.
      (3)   Proof of recording any easements and restrictive covenants prior to
sale of any land or dwelling unit within the PUD and of the establishment and
activation of any entity that is to be responsible for the management and
maintenance of any public or common open space or service facility.
      (4)   All certificates, seals and signatures required for the dedication
of land and recording of documents.
      (5)   Any other plans, agreements or specifications necessary for the
Zoning Administrator to review the proposed final plan.
      (6)   Single-family developments and PUD districts approved for only one
building shall be exempt from the requirement for a PUD final plan.
   (H)   Periodic PUD review. The City Council may require periodic review of a
PUD as a condition to approval of a PUD General Plan in order to ensure
compliance with the conditions of the PUD. At such time the City Council may,
at its discretion, choose to take additional testimony on the PUD.
   (I)   Plan modification/amendment of a PUD.
      (1)   Amendment for existing single and two family PUDs. Amendments for
existing single and 2-family PUDs shall follow the same review procedure as
established for a variance, as set forth in §
153.188.
      (2)   Minor modifications to an approved PUD may be approved by the
Zoning Administrator, upon recommendation of the City Engineer, City Planner
and City Attorney. Minor modifications in this context shall mean internal
adjustments to the site and building plans that do not change the approved plat
or the uses, do not increase the density or intensity of uses, do not increase
the height of buildings, do not decrease the amount of park or open space, or
do not reduce the setbacks to adjacent properties.
      (3)   All other modifications to an approved PUD that do not qualify as
minor as defined in division (I)(2) of this section, shall follow the procedure
for PUD General Plan and Final Plan approval as outlined in §
153.055(F) and (G).
   (J)   General requirements.
      (1)   Records. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all
PUD zones approved by the city, including all pertinent project plans, any
conditions imposed on a project by the City Council, and such other information
as the Zoning Administrator may deem appropriate.
      (2)   Withdrawal of an application. Any application under this section
may be withdrawn by an applicant without prejudice at any time prior to final
City Council action thereon.
      (3)   Platting of a PUD. In the event that a PUD is to be subdivided into
lots or parcels for the purpose of separate ownership, such PUD shall be
platted under the platting procedures contained in the Stacy Subdivision
Ordinance and the related requirements of Chisago County. The preliminary plat
shall be processed in conjunction with the general plan as outlined in division
(F) of this section. A separate action on the final plat shall be processed
before the City Council prior to the approval of a Final Plan.
      (4)   Conveyance of property within a PUD. In the event that any real
property within an approved PUD is conveyed in total or in part, the buyer(s)
thereof shall be bound by all provisions of the PUD and the general plan for
that project. However, nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to make
such conveyed property non-conforming with regard to normal zoning standards as
long as the conveyed property conforms with the approved PUD and the general
plan for a project.
      (5)   Agreement/financial guarantee. Following the approval of the
general plan but prior to final plan approval, the applicant shall enter into
an agreement with the city relating to the terms of the PUD, and shall also
provide such financial guarantees as the city requires or deems necessary. Such
agreement may take the form of:
         (a)   A development contract;
         (b)   A Site Improvement Performance Agreement; and
         (c)   Another form of legally binding instrument as may be required by
the city.
      (6)   A PUD final plan shall expire 1 year from the date of its approval,
unless:
         (a)   The applicant commences the authorized use within that period;
or
         (b)   The applicant applies for an extension before the expiration of
the 1-year period. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good
faith attempt to complete or commence the use permitted by the PUD final plan.
A request for an extension not exceeding 1 additional year shall be subject to
the review and approval of the Zoning Administrator. Should a second extension
of time or any extension of time longer than 1 additional year be requested by
the applicant, it shall be presented to the City Council for a decision.
(Prior Code, § 903.10) (Am. Ord. 2015-3-2, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 153.056 A AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Agriculture District is to preserve areas
that have been included in the city’s Comprehensive Plan for future urban
development. The large minimum lot size (40 acres) will retain these lands in
their natural state or as agricultural uses until the most appropriate zoning
district can be determined at the time development occurs. At such time the new
zoning shall be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Farming operations subject to the following.
         (a)   Continued farm operations.  All farm operations currently in
existence will be permitted to continue operation subject to the following
conditions: agriculture uses, excepting commercial animal farms, fur farms,
kennels, and poultry farms, but including truck gardening and other
horticultural uses, are permitted uses in the district in which an existing
operation is located, provided that any new private stable or other new
building in which farm animals are kept shall be a distance of 60 feet or more
from any other lot in any residential district.
         (b)   Sale of products. Limited sales of products produced may be
conducted on the premises from a roadside stand, but the stand shall not exceed
12 feet in height or 500 square feet in floor area, and no portion of any such
stand shall be located or erected nearer than 40 feet from any highway, street,
or road right-of-way.
         (c)   Conditional use permits. The Council may require any farm
operation to secure a conditional use permit to continue the operations in the
event the farming operations are so intensive as to constitute a feed lot or an
industrial type use consisting of the compounding, processing, and packaging of
products for wholesale or retail trade and further that such operations may
tend to become a permanent industrial type operation (that cannot be terminated
as can a normal farming operation).
         (d)   Unsafe buildings. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or
part thereof declared to be unsafe by the official charged with protecting the
public safety, upon order of the official.
      (2)   The raising of animals for sale, profit, or pleasure on parcels of
5 acres or larger. This land area requirement applies to animal kennels, but
not to the keeping of dogs, cats, and other animals customarily kept as pets.
One animal unit is permitted per 2 acres. The animal units are as follows:
Number of Animals Animal Units
Number of Animals                                     Animal Units
1 bovine/buffalo                                      1
1 horse                                               1
2 miniature horses                                    1
2 swine over 55 pounds                                1
5 sheep/goat                                          1
20 fowl (turkeys, chickens, ducks, geese, game birds) 1
20 rabbits                                            1
A property owner may request an ordinance amendment for any species not
listed. Such amendment is at the discretion of the City Council.
 
      (3)   Farm drainage systems, flood control, and watershed structures and
erosion control devices meeting all city, county, state, and soil conservation
service minimum standards.
      (4)   Forestry.
      (5)   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      (6)   Essential services as defined by §
153.033.
      (7)   Residential facilities in a single-family detached dwelling,
serving 6 or fewer individuals and licensed by the state.
      (8)    Single-family detached dwellings, including expansion of single-
family detached dwellings on non-conforming lots.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any incidental machinery, structures, or buildings necessary for
agriculture or other permitted uses as defined by §
153.031(A).
      (2)   In-home daycare facilities as permitted in M.S. Chapter 462.357,
Subdivision 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Home occupations as defined by §
153.033.
      (4)   Play and recreational facilities, including swimming pools and
tennis courts, for use of the property owner and guests.
      (5)   Signs as regulated by §§
153.090 et seq.
      (6)   Temporary trailers and construction equipment for the duration of
construction only where temporary lavatories are provided in compliance with
city and state requirements.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following are conditional uses, subject to §
153.189 and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited below for a
specific use:
      (1)   Commercial feedlots, subject to MPCA (Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency) requirements;
      (2)   Greenhouses and nurseries;
      (3)   Towers and antennas as regulated by this chapter;
      (4)   Personal use airstrips;
      (5)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries with normal
accessory buildings for education and living quarters;
      (6)   Local government administration and service buildings;
      (7)   Accessory dwelling units as regulated by §
153.035;
      (8)   Commercial outdoor recreation areas that are similar to public
recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf courses, swimming pools,
and resorts. Public parks owned and operated by a government agency or
nonprofit organization;
      (9)   Agricultural oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
grain drying, and storage;
      (10)   Commercial fur farms;
      (11)   Temporary equipment placement and operation as related to road
construction;
      (12)   Light construction equipment storage areas associated with a legal
home occupation;
      (13)   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines, and relay towers up
to 50 feet;
      (14)   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from
the earth and processing operations such as asphalt or concrete batch plants,
rock crushing, washing, and recycling of pavement in accordance with §
153.084;
      (15)   Home occupations which may require additional parking, an
accessory building or an attached garage, or generate increase in traffic
beyond typical residential nature and which are in accordance with §
153.033;
      (16)   Antenna and/or amateur radio;
      (17)   Telecommunication facility in accordance with §
153.155; and
      (18)   Private water supply system pursuant to §
51.11(C).
   (E)   Interim uses. The following are interim uses, subject to §
153.190 and the specific standards and criteria that may be cited below for a
specific use:
      (1)   One additional, non rental, farm dwelling as an accessory use to
the farm; and
      (2)   Certain home occupations as defined in §
153.033.
      (3)   Private water supply system pursuant to §
51.11(C).
      (4)   Kennels.
   (F)   Area requirements.
      (1)   The following minimum requirements shall be met in the AG District:
Minimum lot size        40 acres
Minimum lot width       300 feet
Minimum lot depth       300 feet
Structure setbacks:
Front                   100 feet
Side                    25 feet
Rear                    50 feet
Maximum building height 35 feet
 
      (2)   Properties may also be subject to the requirements of the Shoreland
District, §
153.054.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-11-2, passed 11-13-2012; Am.
Ord. 2015-3-3, passed 3-16-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-10-2, passed 10-11-2016; Am.
Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019; Am. Ord. 2023-12-1, passed 12-12-2023)
§ 153.057 P PARK DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the park district is to provide for publicly
owned park and recreation facilities.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses: within a “P” park district, no structure or
land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Boat landing or fishing pier;
      (2)   Golf course, public;
      (3)   Hockey rinks, pleasure and in-line skating;
      (4)   Informal play field;
      (5)   Open space, natural areas, nature trails and other similar
facilities;
      (6)   Picnic area;
      (7)   Picnic shelter;
      (8)   Play equipment;
      (9)   Play fields, including, but not limited to, soccer, baseball,
softball, football;
      (10)   Playgrounds, hard or soft surface play areas;
      (11)   Recreation buildings;
      (12)   Skateboard parks;
      (13)   Special events as scheduled with City of Stacy;
      (14)   Swimming pools;
      (15)   Play courts, including basketball, tennis, and volleyball;
      (16)   Warming houses and other similar facilities;
      (17)   Community gardens; and
      (18)   Other recreation uses as approved by the City of Stacy.
      (19)   Sale of locally grown produce in the Farmers Market.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Within any “P” park district, the following
uses shall be permitted accessory uses: signage located on outfield fences,
shall comply with §
153.101(B)(2).
   (D)   Uses requiring a conditional use permit. Within any “P” park district,
no structure or land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following uses:
essential service structures, including, but not limited to, buildings such as
booster or pressure regulating stations, wells and pumping stations, elevated
tanks, and lift stations, provided no building shall be located within 50 feet
from any lot line of an abutting lot in an R district. Prior to granting such
permit, it shall be found that the architectural design of service structures
is compatible to the neighborhood in which it is located.
   (E)   Lot requirements. No minimum lot area or width for park land. For
public parks that contain structures the following setbacks shall apply:
      (1)   Front yard setbacks: 25 feet;
      (2)   Rear yard setbacks: 35 feet;
      (3)   Side yard:
         (a)   Ten feet interior;
         (b)   Twenty feet corner;
         (c)   Thirty feet for structures abutting a residential or vacant lot;
      (4)   Height: 2 and 1/2 stories or 35 feet maximum;
   (F)   Building standards: for any building structure built in the park
district the following building standards shall apply.
      (1)   Design of buildings shall reflect the character of the surrounding
residential neighborhoods. Building scale and roof design should be consistent
with existing neighborhoods.
      (2)   Acceptable building materials include face brick, stone, glass,
stucco, synthetic stucco, fiber cement siding or architectural concrete block.
Non-decorative concrete block, sheet metal, unfinished metal or pole barn type
buildings are not acceptable. Roofs shall reflect a traditional residential
structure such as pitched, gable, hip or shed.
   (G)   Activity scheduled in parks. The city shall be delegated as the agency
to coordinate and schedule the use of park areas and facilities.
(Ord. 2010-2-1, passed 2-23-2010; Am. Ord. 2013-3-2, passed 3-12-2013)
§ 153.058 OS OPEN SPACE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the open space district is to provide for
publicly owned open space facilities. This district consists of the Carlos
Avery WMA district and all other public open space land.
   (B)   Permitted uses. No structure or use shall be permitted in the OS
zoning district except the following:
      (1)   Open space, natural areas (including natural landscape areas),
nature trails and nature observation areas;
      (2)   Picnic area;
      (3)   Picnic shelter;
      (4)   Wildlife management areas and related facilities; and
      (5)   Use of firearm for hunting purposes as allowed in the Agricultural
zoning district.
(Ord. 2010-2-1, passed 2-23-2010)
§ 153.059 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT; FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Statutory authorization and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. This floodplain section is adopted
pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 103F, as
may be amended from time to time; Minnesota Rules, parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200; the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program
(NFIP) in 44 CFR § 59 to 78; and the planning and zoning enabling legislation
in M.S. Chapter 462, as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Purpose.
         (a)   This section regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
the City of Stacy. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic inundation,
which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
It is the purpose of this section to promote the public health, safety, and
general welfare by minimizing these losses and disruptions.
         (b)   This section is adopted in the public interest to promote sound
land use practices, and floodplains are a land resource to be developed in a
manner which will result in minimum loss of life and threat to health, and
reduction of private and public economic loss caused by flooding.
         (c)   This section is adopted to maintain eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
         (d)   This section is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
      (3)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. The standards in this section take precedence over
any less restrictive, conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of
the inconsistency only.
      (4)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. Not all flood risk is
mapped. Larger floods do occur and the flood height may be increased by man-
made or natural causes, such as ice jams or bridge openings restricted by
debris. This section does not create liability on the part of the city or its
officers or employees for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
section or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
   (B)   Definitions. Unless specifically defined, words or phrases used in
this section must be interpreted according to common usage and so as to give
this section its most reasonable application.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A structure that is on the same parcel of property
as, and is incidental to, the principal structure or use; an accessory
structure specifically excludes structures used for human habitation.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year. BASE FLOOD is synonymous with the term REGIONAL FLOOD used in
Minnesota Rules, part 6120.5000.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood, regional
flood, or 1% annual chance flood. The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the
Flood Insurance Study.
      BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor subgrade (below ground level) on all 4 sides, regardless of the depth of
excavation below ground level.
      BUILDING. See STRUCTURE.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development that would not be appropriate
generally, but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions upon a finding that
certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or
development conforms to the comprehensive land use plan of the community, and
the use is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      CRITICAL FACILITIES. Buildings and structures that contain essential
facilities and services necessary for emergency response and recovery, or that
pose a substantial risk to the public in the event of failure, disruption of
function, or damage by flooding. Specifically, this includes facilities
identified as Flood Design Class 4 in ASCE 24-14, Flood Resistant Design and
Construction, as amended. Examples include health care facilities, facilities
required for emergency response, power generating stations, communications
towers, or electrical substations.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FLOOD. A temporary rise in the stream flow or water surface elevation
from any source that results in the inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the 1% annual chance floodplain located
outside of the floodway. This district shall be extended laterally to the 0.2%
annual chance floodplain, where mapped.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The study referenced in Section 3.2, which
is an examination, evaluation and determination of flood hazards, and if
appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation,
and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.
      FLOODPLAIN. The beds, channel and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse, or other source which have been or hereafter may be inundated by
the base flood.
      FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding,
primarily for the reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which must be reserved to carry
or store the base flood discharge without cumulatively increasing the water
surface elevation more than ½ foot.
      GENERAL FLOODPLAIN. Those floodplains designated on the Flood Insurance
Rate Maps referenced in division (C)(2), but that do not have a delineated
floodway.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The LOWEST FLOOR of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 C.F.R. § 60.3.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction
commenced on or after the effective date of an adopted floodplain management
regulation, and includes any subsequent improvements to such structures.
      PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. The main building or other structure on a lot that
is utilized for the property’s principal use.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between 2 consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a reach.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a vehicle, and is
designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. Those vehicles not
meeting this definition shall be considered a structure for the purposes of
this section. For the purposes of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is
synonymous with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation that is 1-foot
above the elevation of the base flood plus any increases in the water surface
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway. These increases in water surface elevations are
typically identified in the floodway data tables, found in the Flood Insurance
Study.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood-related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during a 10-year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      STAGE INCREASE. Any increase in the water surface elevation during the 1%
annual chance flood caused by encroachments on the floodplain.
      START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
date the permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was
within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first
placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the
pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of
columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers, foundations, or the erection of temporary forms; nor
does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such
as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction
means the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural
part of a building, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the building.
      STRUCTURE. A roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home. Recreational
vehicles not considered travel ready, as detailed in division (J)(2)(b), shall
also be considered a structure for the purposes of this section.
      SUBDIVISION. Land that has been divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or
lease, including planned unit developments.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the START OF CONSTRUCTION of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred SUBSTANTIAL
DAMAGE, regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a HISTORIC STRUCTURE, provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure’s continued designation as a
HISTORIC STRUCTURE. For the purpose of this section, HISTORIC STRUCTURE is
defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1.
      VARIANCE. The same as that defined in 44 C.F.R. § 59.1 and M.S. §
462.357, Subd. 6(2), as may be amended from time to time.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently in a definitive direction. The term applies to
either natural or artificially constructed channels.
   (C)   Jurisdiction and districts.
      (1)   Lands to which section applies. This section applies to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the City of Stacy within the boundaries of the
Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts.
         (a)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts. The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in
addition to any other requirements. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
         (b)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions (as
illustrated in Figure 1), the base flood elevation (BFE) shall be the governing
factor in locating the outer boundaries of the 1% annual chance floodplain.
Figure 1: The mapped floodplain may not always align with on-the-ground contour
elevations
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2407.png]
         (c)   Persons contesting the location of district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning Commission
and to submit technical evidence.
      (2)    Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps together
with all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of the official zoning map and this section. The attached material
includes the Flood Insurance Study for Chisago County, Minnesota, and
incorporated areas, dated April 17, 2012, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map
panels 27025C0250D, 27025C0255D, 27025C0260D, 27025C0275D, 27025C0350D, and
27025C0375D, dated April 17, 2012, all prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency. These materials are on file in the Stacy City Hall.
      (3)   Districts.
         (a)   Floodway District. Those areas within Zone A as shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced in division (C)(2) that are determined to
be located in the floodway using the delineation methods in division (G)(4).
         (b)   Flood Fringe District. Those areas within Zone A as shown on the
Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced in division (C)(2) that are determined to
be located in the flood fringe using the delineation methods in division (G)
(4). This district shall be extended laterally to the 0.2% annual chance
floodplain, where mapped.
         (c)   General Floodplain District. Those areas within Zone A as shown
on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced in division (C)(2).
      (4)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels referenced in
division (C)(2) may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the city at the time of adoption of this chapter. If any of these
floodplain land areas are annexed into the city after the date of adoption of
this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will be subject to the
provisions of this section immediately upon the date of annexation. Annexations
into panels not referenced in division (C)(2) require ordinance amendment in
accordance with division (N).
      (5)   Municipal boundary adjustments. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels
referenced in division (C)(2) apply county-wide. If at any point any lands come
under the jurisdiction of another local government, the following shall apply:
         (a)   City adjustments of corporate boundaries, including but not
limited to annexations and detachments, shall shift floodplain administrative
authority of all affected lands immediately upon the date of the boundary
adjustment occurring. Cities retain jurisdiction for all incorporated lands,
and the county retains jurisdiction under this section on all unincorporated
lands, except as provided through some form of administrative agreement.
   (D)   Requirements for all floodplain districts.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify compliance with all applicable standards outlined in
this section prior to the following uses or activities:
         (a)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, repair, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
requires a permit to determine if such work, either separately or in
conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement, as
specified in division (L)(1)(c).
         (b)   The construction or placement of anything that may cause
potential waterflow obstruction.
         (c)   The change or expansion of a nonconforming use.
         (d)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
         (e)   The placement of fill, excavation, utilities, on-site sewage
treatment systems, or other service facilities.
         (f)   The storage of materials or equipment, in conformance with
division (D)(3)(b).
         (g)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including
stabilization projects or the construction of new or replacement dams, culverts
and bridges). A local permit is not required if a public waters work permit has
been obtained from the Department of Natural Resources, unless a significant
area above the ordinary high water level is also to be disturbed.
         (h)   Any other type of DEVELOPMENT, as defined in division (B).
      (2)   No permit required. Certain uses or activities may be exempt from
obtaining a permit, such as planting a garden, farming, or other obviously
insignificant activities such as putting up a mailbox or flagpole. The
continuation of existing uses, when the associated activities do not encroach
further on the regulatory floodplain or trigger associated standards in this
section, do not require a permit.
      (3)   Minimum development standards.
         (a)   All development must:
            1.   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            2.   Be constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood
damage;
            3.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
            4.   Be constructed with heating, ventilation, duct work, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities elevated at least up to the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE). Water, sewage, electrical, and
other utility lines below the RFPE shall be constructed so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within them during conditions of flooding;
            5.   Be reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage;
            6.   Be assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
            7.   Not be detrimental to uses in adjoining areas;
            8.   Not adversely affect the efficiency or restrict the flood
carrying capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system; and
            9.   Ensure that any fill or other materials are protected from
erosion, discharge, and sediment entering surface waters by the use of
vegetative cover or other methods as soon as possible.
         (b)   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE),
floodproofed, or protected by other measures as approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters,
such as sewage; sand; rock; wrecked and discarded equipment; dredged spoil;
municipal, agricultural or industrial waste; and other wastes as further
defined in M.S. § 115.01, as may be amended from time to time, are prohibited
unless adequate safeguards approved by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
are provided. For projects not requiring approvals by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency, adequate safeguards must be approved by the Zoning
Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
         (c)   Critical facilities shall be located so that the lowest floor is
not less than 2 feet above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), or the 0.2% annual
chance flood elevation, whichever is higher.
Table 1. Summary of permitting requirements for structures
Structure Type Floodway Flood Fringe Standards*
Structure Type        Floodway            Flood Fringe        Standards*
Accessory structures
Accessory structures  Only specific uses
- on fill             and types allowed - Allowed with permit (F)(2)(C)(4)(ii)
                      with CUP
Accessory structures  Only specific uses
- alt. elevation      and types allowed - Allowed with permit (F)(2)(C)(4)(iii)
methods               with CUP
Accessory structures  Only specific uses
- wet floodproofing   and types allowed - Allowed with permit (F)(2)(C)(4)(i)
                      with CUP
Accessory structures  Only specific uses
- dry (watertight)    and types allowed - Allowed with permit (F)(2)(C)(4)(iv)
floodproofing         with CUP
Residential
Residential - on fill Not allowed         Allowed with permit (F)(2)(a)
Residential - alt.    Not allowed         Allowed with CUP    (F)(4)(a)
elevation methods
Residential - dry
(watertight)
floodproofing and/or  Not allowed         Not allowed         N/A
basement construction
below RFPE
Non-residential
Non-residential - on  Not allowed         Allowed with permit (F)(2)(b)(1)
fill
Non-residential -
alt. elevation        Not allowed         Allowed with permit (F)(2)(b)(2)
methods
Non-residential - dry
(watertight)
floodproofing and/or  Not allowed         Allowed with permit (F)(2)(b)(3)
basement construction
below RFPE
*Note: Many of these standards are cross-referenced.
 
   (E)   Floodway District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in floodway. Development allowed in the floodway
district is limited to that which has low flood damage potential and will not
obstruct flood flows, increase velocities, or increase the water surface
elevations of the 1% annual chance flood. The following uses and activities may
be allowed with a permit, subject to the standards in division (E)(2):
         (a)   Agricultural uses, recreational uses, parking lots, loading
areas, airport landing strips, water control structures, navigational
facilities, as well as public open space uses.
         (b)   Roads, driveways, railroads, trails, bridges, and culverts.
         (c)   Public utility facilities and water-oriented industries which
must be in or adjacent to watercourses.
         (d)   Grading, filling, land alterations, and shoreline stabilization
projects.
         (e)   No structures, as defined in division (B), are allowed in the
Floodway District, except structures accessory to the uses detailed in
divisions (E)(1)(a) and (E)(3)(a), which require a CUP under division (E)(3)
(b).
         (f)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops, provided
the top of the dike does not exceed the 10% annual chance flood event.
      (2)   Standards for permitted uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in division (D):
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that the development will not
result in any of the following during the 1% annual chance flood: Cause a stage
increase of 0.00 feet or greater, obstruct flood flows, or increase velocities.
This shall be demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed
by a professional engineer, or using other standard engineering practices
(e.g., projects that restore the site to the previous cross-sectional area).
This is commonly documented through a “no-rise certification.”
         (b)   Any development that would result in stage increases greater
than 0.00 feet may only be allowed with a permit if the applicant has applied
for and received approval for a conditional letter of map revision (CLOMR) in
accordance with 44 C.F.R. § 65.12. Map revisions must follow the procedures in
divisions (K)(1)(e) and (N).
         (c)   Any development resulting in decreases to the water surface
elevation of the base flood identified in the Flood Insurance Study requires a
letter of map revision (LOMR) following the procedures in divisions (K)(1)(e)
and (N).
         (d)   Any development in the beds of public waters that will change
the course, current or cross section is required to obtain a public waters work
permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, as may be amended from time to time,
or a utility crossing license in accordance with M.S. § 84.415, as may be
amended from time to time, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit.
         (e)   Any facility used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the Zoning Administrator
that provides adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that
within the area inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) is less than 4.
         (f)   Fill and other land alteration activities must offer minimal
obstruction to the flow of flood waters, and be protected from erosion and
sediment entering surface waters by the use of vegetative cover, riprap or
other methods as soon as possible.
      (3)   Conditional uses in floodway. The following uses and activities may
be permitted as conditional uses, subject to the standards detailed in division
(E)(4):
         (a)   Commercial extractive uses, and storage and stockpiling yards.
         (b)   Structures accessory to uses detailed in divisions (E)(1)(a) and
(E)(3)(a).
      (4)   Standards for conditional uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in divisions (D), (E)(2) and (K)(2):
         (a)   Extractive uses and storage of materials require the completion
of a site development and restoration plan, to be approved by the city.
         (b)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to the uses detailed
in divisions (E)(1)(a) and (E)(3)(a) must be constructed and placed so as to
offer a minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters, and are subject to the
standards in division (F)(2)(c).
   (F)   Flood Fringe District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in flood fringe. Any uses or activities allowed in
any applicable underlying zoning districts may be allowed with a permit,
subject to the standards set forth in division (F)(2).
      (2)   Standards for permitted uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in division (D):
         (a)   Residential structures; elevation on fill. Structures erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, or moved on fill within the Flood Fringe
District shall be placed so that the lowest floor, as defined in division (B),
is elevated at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE). The
finished fill elevation shall be at or above the elevation associated with the
base flood plus any stage increases that result from designation of a floodway.
Fill must extend at the same elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside
limits of the structure. Elevations must be certified by a registered
professional engineer, land surveyor or other qualified person designated by
the Zoning Administrator. Elevation methods alternative to these fill standards
are subject to a conditional use permit, as provided in division (F)(3)(a) and
Figure 2. Construction of this type shall only be permitted in locations where
the natural ground is no lower than 3 feet below the base flood elevation.
Figure 2: Overview of fill standards for residential structures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2409.png]
         (b)     Non-residential principal structures. Non-residential
principal structures must meet 1 of the following construction methods:
            1.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill, meeting
the standards in division (F)(2)(a). Fill for non-residential structures is not
required to be extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
            2.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may be elevated
using methods alternative to the fill standards in division (F)(2)(a). Such
methods include the use of blocks, pilings (Figure 3), filled stem walls
(Figure 4), or internally-flooded enclosed areas (Figure 5) such as crawl
spaces, attached garages, or tuck-under garages.
      Figure 3: Blocks or pilings.         Figure 4: Filled stem
walls.            Figure 5: Internally flooded enclosed area.
   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2411.png]
 
 
 
 
 
            3.   Designs accommodating for internally flooded enclosed areas
must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect, or meet
or exceed the standards detailed in FEMA Technical Bulletin 1, as amended, as
well as the following standards:
               i.   The lowest floor, as defined in division (B), shall be
elevated at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
               ii.   The floor of the enclosed area must be at or above the
exterior grade on at least 1 side of the structure.
               iii.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there shall be a minimum of 2 openings below the base flood elevation on at
least 2 sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than 1 foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding,
have a net area of not less than 1 square inch for every square foot of
enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and exit of
floodwaters without human intervention.
               iv.   Internally flooded enclosed areas shall only be used for
the parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Bathrooms and toilet
rooms shall not be allowed. Such areas shall be subject to a deed-restricted
non-conversion agreement as well as periodic inspections with the issuance of
any permit.
            4.   Dry floodproofing. Structures having watertight enclosed
basements or spaces below the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) must
meet the following standards:
               i.   Walls must be substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, with structural components having the capacity of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy, at least up to the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE);
               ii.   Must meet the standards of FEMA Technical Bulletin 3, as
amended; and
               iii.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall be
required to certify that the design and methods of construction meet the
standards detailed in this section.
         (c)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures must meet the
following standards:
            1.   Structures shall not be designed or used for human habitation.
            2.   Structures will have a low flood damage potential.
            3.   Structures with fewer than 2 rigid walls, such as carports,
gazebos, and picnic pavilions, may be located at an elevation below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
            4.   Structures with 2 or more rigid walls, must meet 1 of the
following construction methods:
               i.   Wet floodproofing. Structures may be floodproofed in a way
to accommodate internal flooding. Such structures shall constitute a minimal
investment not to exceed 576 square feet in size, 1 story in height, and shall
only be used for parking and storage. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of 2 openings on at least 2
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1
foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and
shall allow automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human intervention.
               ii.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill,
meeting the standards in division (F)(2)(a). Fill is not required to be
extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
               iii.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may have their
lowest floor elevated above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE)
through methods alternative to the fill standards in division (F)(2)(c)4.ii.,
and must meet the standards in division (F)(2)(b)2..
               iv.   Dry floodproofing. Structures may be dry-floodproofed, or
watertight, meeting the standards in division (F)(2)(b)3..
         (d)   All new principal structures must provide vehicular access no
lower than 1 foot below the base flood elevation (BFE), unless a flood warning/
emergency evacuation plan has been approved by the city.
         (e)   Any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the city that provides
adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that within the area
inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet) multiplied by the
velocity (in feet per second) is less than 4.
         (f)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of division (J).
      (3)   Conditional uses in flood fringe. The following uses and activities
may be permitted as conditional uses, subject to the standards in division (F)
(4): Alternative elevation methods – residential structures: Residential
structures with their lowest floor elevated above the regulatory flood
protection elevation (RFPE) using methods alternative to the fill requirements
in division (F)(2)(a).
      (4)   Standards for conditional uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in divisions (D), (F)(2) and (K)(2): All
residential structures with lowest floors elevated through alternative
elevation methods must meet the standards in division (F)(2)(b)(2).
   (G)   General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in General Floodplain District.
         (a)   Until the floodway is delineated, allowable uses will be
restricted to those listed in the Floodway District, division (E).
         (b)   All other uses are subject to a floodway/flood fringe
determination as provided in division (G)(4), in addition to the standards
provided in divisions (G)(2) and (G)(3). Permitted uses shall be determined as
follows:
            1.   If the development is determined to be in the Floodway
District, division (E) applies.
            2.   If the development is determined to be in the Flood Fringe
District, division (F) applies.
      (2)   Determining flood elevations.
         (a)   All development requires a determination of the base flood
elevation (BFE). Exceptions to this requirement include projects that restore
the site to the previous cross- sectional area, such as shore stabilization or
culvert replacement projects. Base flood elevations (BFE) may be found using
best available data from any federal, state, or other source (including MNDNR’s
Lake and Flood Elevations Online (LFEO) Viewer).
         (b)   The regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) can be
determined by assuming a ½ foot stage increase to accommodate for future
cumulative impacts. A stage increase does not need to be assumed along lakes,
wetlands, and other basins that are not affected by velocities.
      (3)   Encroachment analysis.
         (a)   Encroachments due to development may not allow stage increases
more than ½-foot at any point, unless through a map revision following the
procedures in divisions (K)(1)(e) and (N). This evaluation must include the
cumulative effects of previous encroachments, and must be documented with
hydrologic and hydraulic analysis performed by a professional engineer, or
using other standard engineering practices. A lesser water surface elevation
increase than ½ foot is required if, due to the water surface level increase,
increased flood damages would potentially result.
         (b)   Alterations or changes that result in stage decreases are
allowed and encouraged.
      (4)   Standards for the analysis of floodway boundaries.
         (a)   Requirements for detailed studies. Any development, as requested
by the Zoning Administrator, shall be subject to a detailed study to determine
the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the limits of the Floodway
District. This determination must be consistent with the minimum standards for
hydrologic and hydraulic mapping standards and techniques, as detailed in
Minnesota Rules, part 6120.5600, Subd. 4 and FEMA Guidelines and Standards for
Flood Risk Analysis and Mapping, as revised. Additionally:
            1.   A regulatory floodway necessary to carry the discharge of the
1% annual chance flood must be selected without increasing the water surface
elevation more than ½ foot at any point. This determination should include the
cumulative effects of previous encroachments. A lesser water surface elevation
increase than ½ foot is required if, due to the water surface level increase,
increased flood damages would potentially result; and
            2.   An equal degree of encroachment on both sides of the stream
within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway boundaries, unless
topography, existing development patterns, and comprehensive land use plans
justify a modified approach, as approved by the Department of Natural
Resources.
         (b)   Other acceptable methods. For areas where a detailed study is
not available or required:
            1.   Development prohibited in floodways (e.g. most buildings)
requires a floodway/flood fringe determination to verify the development is
within the flood fringe. This determination must be done by a professional
engineer or utilize other accepted engineering practices. The Department of
Natural Resources may also provide technical assistance and must approve any
alternative methods used to determine floodway boundaries.
            2.   For areas where the floodway has not been determined in and
along lakes, wetlands, and other basins, the following methodology may be used
as an alternative to division (G)(3)(a), provided these areas are not affected
by velocities and the lot is able to accommodate a building site above the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE): All areas that are at or below
the ordinary high water level, as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 14, as may
be amended from time to time, will be considered floodway, and all areas below
the base flood elevation (BFE) but above the ordinary high water level will be
considered flood fringe, provided that within 25 feet of the ordinary high
water level, or within the shore impact zone as identified in the community’s
shoreland ordinance, whichever distance is greater, land alterations shall be
restricted to:
               i.   The minimum required to accommodate beach areas, access
areas, and accessory structures as permitted, not to exceed a volume greater
than 10 cubic yards; projects involving volumes exceeding 10 cubic yards
require floodway/flood fringe determination in accordance with the procedures
in division (G)(4)(b)1.; and
               ii.   The minimum required to accommodate shoreline
stabilization projects to correct an identified erosion problem as verified by
a qualified resource agency or the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Subdivision standards. All subdivided land must meet the following
requirements. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this section.
      (1)   All lots within floodplain districts must be suitable for a
building site outside of the Floodway District.
      (2)   Subdivision of lands within the floodplain districts may not be
approved if the cost of providing governmental services would impose an
unreasonable economic burden on the city.
      (3)   All subdivisions must have vehicular access both to the subdivision
and to the individual building sites no lower than 2 feet below the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE), unless a flood warning/emergency evacuation
plan has been approved by the city.
      (4)   The Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory
flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the required elevation of all access
roads must be clearly identified on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
   (I)   Public and private utilities, service facilities, roads, bridges, and
railroads.
      (1)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges must be elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE)
where such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area, or
where failure or interruption would result in danger to public health or
safety. Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower
elevation where failure or interruption of transportation services would not
endanger the public health or safety. All public transportation facilities
should be designed to minimize increases in flood elevations.
      (2)   Public utilities. All utilities such as gas, electrical, sewer, and
water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be elevated and/or
floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage, and be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters. All public utilities should be designed to minimize
increases in flood elevations. New solid waste management facilities, as
defined in Minnesota Rules, part 7035.0300, are prohibited in the 1% annual
chance floodplain. Water supply systems are subject to the provisions in
Minnesota Rules, part 4725.4350.
      (3)   Private on-site water supply, individual sewage treatment systems,
and other service facilities. Private facilities shall be subject to applicable
provisions detailed in division (I)(2). In addition, new or replacement on-site
sewage treatment systems are to be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during times of flooding, shall not be located in a
designated floodway, and are subject to the provisions in Minnesota Rules,
parts 7080.2270.
   (J)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
are subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be placed and
elevated in compliance with division (F) and must be securely anchored to a
system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of
anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over- the-top or frame
ties to ground anchors.
         (b)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing
manufactured home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in
division (H).
      (2)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational vehicles
placed in existing recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds or lots of record in
the floodplain must either:
         (a)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (J)(1);
or
         (b)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
            1.   The vehicle must be fully licensed.
            2.   The vehicle must be ready for highway use, meaning on wheels
or the internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick-disconnect
type utilities.
            3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
            4.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided they do not hinder the removal of the vehicle should
flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in division (D) and (F)(2)(c).
   (K)   Administration.
      (1)   A Zoning Administrator or other official must administer and
enforce this section.
         (a)   Permit application requirements. Permit applications must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The permit application must include the
following, as applicable:
            1.   A site plan showing all existing or proposed buildings,
structures, service facilities, potential obstructions, and pertinent design
features having an influence on the permit.
            2.   Location and detail of grading, fill, or storage of materials.
            3.   Copies of any required local, state or federal permits or
approvals.
            4.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
         (b)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain applicable
records in perpetuity documenting:
            1.   All certifications for dry floodproofing and alternative
elevation methods, where applicable.
            2.   Analysis of no-rise in the Floodway District, as detailed in
division (E)(2)(a), and encroachment analysis ensuring no more than ½ foot of
rise in the General Floodplain District, as detailed in divisions (G)(2)(b) and
(G)(3)(a).
            3.   Final elevations, as applicable, detailing the elevation to
which structures and improvements to structures are constructed or
floodproofed. Elevations shall be determined by an engineer, architect,
surveyor or other qualified individual, as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            4.   Substantial damage and substantial improvement determinations,
as detailed in division (L)(1)(c), including the cost of improvements, repairs,
and market value.
            5.   All variance actions, including justification for their
issuance, and must report such variances as requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (c)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the finished fill and building floor
elevations or other flood protection measures are in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
         (d)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing
any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator
must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to
work in public waters in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, as may be amended
from time to time, this will suffice as adequate notice. A copy of the
notification must also be submitted to FEMA.
         (e)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. Where physical changes affecting flooding conditions may
increase or decrease the water surface elevation of the base flood, the city
must notify FEMA of the changes in order to obtain a letter of map revision
(LOMR), by submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific data as
soon as practicable, but no later than 6 months after the date such supporting
information becomes available. Within the General Floodplain District, a map
revision is only required if development results in stage increases greater
than ½ feet.
      (2)   Conditional uses and variances.
         (a)   Process.
            1.   An application for a conditional use permit will be processed
and reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
            2.   An application for a variance to the provisions of this
section will be processed and reviewed in accordance with M.S. § 394.27, Subd.
7, as may be amended from time to time, and this section.
         (b)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria must be satisfied:
            1.   Variances must not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
            2.   Variances from the provisions of this section may only be
issued by a community upon:
               i.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               ii.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               iii.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances from the provisions in this section may only be
issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
            4.   Variances must be consistent with the general purpose of these
standards and the intent of applicable provisions in state and federal law.
            5.   Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood
protection, but no variance shall permit a lesser degree of flood protection
than the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
            6.   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a
variance in writing that:
               i.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
               ii.   Such construction below the base flood level increases
risks to life and property. Notification must be maintained with a record of
all variance actions.
         (c)   Considerations for approval. The city must consider all relevant
factors specified in other sections of this section in granting variances and
conditional use permits, including the following:
            1.   The potential danger to life and property due to increased
flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
            3.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (d)   Conditions of approval. The city may attach such conditions to
the granting of variances and conditional use permits as it deems necessary to
fulfill the purposes of this section. Such conditions may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
            1.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
            2.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            3.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction.
            4.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission, or City Council.
      (3)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
         (a)   All notices of public hearings to consider variances or
conditional uses under this section must be sent via electronic mail to the
Department of Natural Resources respective area hydrologist at least 10 days
before the hearings. Notices of hearings to consider subdivisions/plats must
include copies of the subdivision/plat.
         (b)   A copy of all decisions granting variances and conditional uses
under this section must be sent via electronic mail to the Department of
Natural Resources respective area hydrologist within 10 days of final action.
   (L)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of
land which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this section, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this section, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Within the floodway and general floodplain districts (when a
site has been determined to be located in the floodway following the procedures
in division (G)(3), or when the floodway has not been delineated), any
expansion or enlargement of uses or structures is prohibited.
         (b)   Within all districts, any addition, modification,
rehabilitation, repair, or alteration shall be in conformance with the
provisions of this section, shall not increase the flood damage potential or
increase the degree of obstruction to flood flows, and where applicable, must
be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
         (c)   If any nonconforming structure is determined to be substantially
damaged or substantially improved based on the procedures in division (L)(2),
it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
section. Any structures located outside of the 1% annual chance floodplain are
exempt from this division.
         (d)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than 1 year, any future use of the premises
must conform to this section.
         (e)   If any nonconforming structure has utilities, electrical, or
mechanical equipment damaged due to flooding, it must be rebuilt in conformance
with the elevation requirements in division (D)(3)(a)4. to the greatest extent
practicable. This requirement shall apply regardless of the determinations made
in division (L)(2).
      (2)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations.
Prior to issuing any permits for additions, modifications, rehabilitations,
repairs, alterations, or maintenance to nonconforming structures, the Zoning
Administrator is required to determine if such work constitutes substantial
improvement or repair of a substantially damaged structure. A determination
must be made in accordance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Estimate of the market value of the structure. In the case of
repairs, the market value of the structure shall be the market value before the
damage occurred and before any restoration or repairs are made.
         (b)   Estimate of the cost of the project. The property owner shall
accommodate for inspection, and furnish other documentation needed by the
Zoning Administrator to evaluate costs.
            1.   Improvement costs shall be comprised of the market rate of all
materials and labor, as well as the costs of all ordinary maintenance and
upkeep carried out over the past 1 year.
            2.   Costs to repair damages shall be comprised of the market rate
of all materials and labor required to restore a building to its pre-damaged
condition regardless of the work proposed, as well as associated improvement
costs if structure is being restored beyond its pre- damaged condition.
         (c)   Compare the cost of the improvement, repairs, or combination
thereof to the estimated market value of the structure, and determine whether
the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a
substantially damaged structure, as defined in division (B).
            1.   For the purposes of determining whether the proposed work
would constitute substantial improvement, the evaluation shall also include all
rehabilitations, additions, or other improvements completed since the community
has adopted floodplain standards impacting this structure.
            2.   If any nonconforming structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in division (B), it shall be considered substantially damaged and
must not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
section.
         (d)   Based on this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a determination letter and notify the property owner accordingly.
Structures determined to be substantially damaged or substantially improved may
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this section.
   (M)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Uses in violation of the section. Every structure, fill, deposit,
or other use placed or maintained in the floodplain in violation of this
section shall be considered a public nuisance.
      (2)   Civil remedies. The creation of a public nuisance may be enjoined
and the maintenance of a public nuisance under this section may be abated by an
action brought by the city or the Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Enforcement. Violation of the provisions of this section
constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. The Zoning
Administrator may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it
including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-
fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance. The city must act in good
faith to enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to
the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (N)   Amendments.
      (1)   Ordinance amendments. Any revisions to the floodplain maps by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency or annexations of new map panels require an
ordinance amendment to update the map references in division (C)(2).
      (2)   Required approval. All amendments to this section must be submitted
to the Department of Natural Resources for review and approval prior to
adoption, for compliance with state and federal rules and requirements. The
floodplain ordinance shall not be considered valid until approved.
(Ord. 2012-3-2, passed 3-13-2012; Am. Ord. 2024-10-4, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.060 RR-A RURAL RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The RR-A District is intended to provide areas to be utilized
for agriculture and agriculture-related uses and low-density residential areas.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Maximum density: 16 lots per 40 acres.
      (2)   Minimum buildable area: 21,500 square feet (single-family).
      (3)   Minimum lot area: 2.5 acres.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 165 feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot depth: 300 feet.
      (6)   Minimum setback from centerline of:
         (a)   County (CSAH) road: 135 feet.
         (b)   City street: 73 feet.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 40 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structures: 40 feet.
         (c)   Accessory structures 20 feet or 2 times the height of the
sidewall of the structure, whichever is greater.
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 50 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structures: 20 feet or 2 times the height of the
sidewall of the structure, whichever is greater.
      (9)   Maximum height of structures:
         (a)   Principal structure: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 35 feet.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage
on a public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
         (b)   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the following conditions:
is a single parcel of land currently zoned for residential or commercial
purposes of not less than 20 acres and having a width not less than 500 feet
and its conveyance does not result in the division of a parcel into 2 or more
lots or parcels, any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width, and may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip
which is a minimum of 33 feet in width.
      (2)   Horse keeping at a maximum density of 1 horse per 2½ acres or 2
miniature horses per 2½ acres.
      (3)   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      (4)   Farm drainage systems, flood control and watershed structures and
erosion control devices meeting all county, state and soil conservation service
minimum standards.
      (5)   Greenhouse or nursery.
      (6)   Forestry and sod farming.
      (7)   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      (8)   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed 1 stand per farm.
      (9)   Daycare and residential facilities as required in Flood Insurance
Study Chapter 462, as may be amended from time to time.
      (10)   Right-of-way management in accordance with §§
93.40 through
93.45.
      (11)   Solar energy systems in accordance with §
153.034(D).
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conservation subdivisions in accordance with §
153.074.
      (2)   Golf courses and commercial outdoor recreation areas that are
similar to public recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf course
and swimming pools.
      (3)   Recreational camping areas in accordance with §
153.009.
      (4)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      (5)   Public parks for active recreation owned or operated by a
government agency or nonprofit organization and other open space uses including
museums or other buildings of historical significance as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Local government administration and service buildings.
      (7)   Community sewage treatment facilities.
      (8)   Agriculture-oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      (9)   Agriculturally and animal-oriented educational facilities.
      (10)   Commercial wireless telecommunication services, including towers
and antennae, provided that towers and antennae do not exceed 199 feet.
      (11)   Rural retail tourism businesses meeting the standards established
within §
153.010.
      (12)   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines and towers not
exceeding 50 feet in height.
      (13)   Shelter facilities for battered persons operated by a nonprofit
organization.
   (E)   Interim uses. 
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.033.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      (3)   Commercial grain storage and drying.
      (4)   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and
non-profit animal shelters.
      (5)   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses where there is a density of more than 1 horse per 2½ acres or more than
2 miniature horses per 2½ acres.
      (6)   Horse barns as a principal or accessory use, provided that the barn
is not intended for use in a commercial equine operation, and contains no
residential living quarters and/or sanitary facilities.
      (7)   Temporary equipment placement and operations.
      (8)   Asphalt processing operations, storage and staging.
      (9)   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from
the earth.
      (10)   Personal use airstrips that are exempted from direct, individual
regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and standards.
      (11)   Rural retail tourism businesses meeting the standards established
within §
153.010.
      (12)   Light construction equipment storage areas associated with a legal
home occupation.
(Ord. 2024-9-5, passed 9-10-24)
§ 153.061 RR-I RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT I.
   (A)   Purpose. The RR-I District is intended to provide a transition area
between rural residential agricultural areas and higher density rural
residential areas.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Maximum density:
         (a)   Forty lots per 40 acres (single-family).
         (b)   Twenty lots per 40 acres (2-family).
      (2)   Minimum buildable area:
         (a)   Twenty-one-thousand-five-hundred square feet (single-family).
         (b)   One acre (2-family).
      (3)   Minimum lot area: 1 acre.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 168 feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet.
      (6)   Minimum setback from centerline of:
         (a)   County (CSAH) road: 135 feet.
         (b)   City street: 73 feet.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 20 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 10 feet.
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 25 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 10 feet.
      (9)   Maximum height of structures:
         (a)   Principal structure: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure is not to exceed height of principal
structure.
      (10)   Agricultural Buildings are not allowed in RR-I.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage
on a public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
         (b)   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the following conditions:
is a single parcel of land currently zoned for residential or commercial
purposes of not less than 20 acres and having a width not less than 500 feet
and its conveyance does not result in the division of a parcel into 2 or more
lots or parcels, any 1 of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width, and may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip
which is a minimum of 33 feet in width.
         (c)   Horse keeping at a maximum density of 1 horse per 2½ acres or 2
miniature horses per 2½ acres.
      (2)   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      (3)   Daycare and residential facilities as required in M.S. Chapter 462,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Right-of-way management in accordance with §§
93.40 through
93.45.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Two-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage
on a public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision in
accordance with §
153.074.
         (b)   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the following conditions:
is a single parcel of land currently zoned for residential or commercial
purposes of not less than 20 acres and having a width not less than 500 feet
and its conveyance does not result in the division of a parcel into 2 or more
lots or parcels, any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width, and may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip
which is a minimum of 33 feet in width.
      (2)   Conservation subdivisions in accordance with §
153.074.
      (3)   Golf courses and commercial outdoor recreation areas that are
similar to public recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf course
and swimming pools.
      (4)   Public parks for active recreation owned or operated by a
government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses
including museums or other buildings of historical significance.
      (5)   Recreational camping areas in accordance with §
153.009.
      (6)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      (7)   Local government administration and service buildings.
      (8)   Community sewage treatment facilities.
      (9)   Greenhouse or nursery.
      (10)   Forestry and sod farming.
      (11)   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      (12)   Agriculture-oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      (13)   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines and towers not
exceeding 50 feet in height.
   (E)   Interim uses.
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.033.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      (3)   Art studios.
      (4)   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed 1 stand per parcel.
      (5)   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and
non-profit animal shelters.
      (6)   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses where there is a density of more than 1 horse per 2½ acres or more than
2 miniature horses per 2½ acres.
      (7)   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from
the earth.
      (8)   Personal use airstrips that are exempted from direct, individual
regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and standards.
(Ord. 2024-9-6, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.062 RR-II RURAL RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT II.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the RR-II District is to provide a transition
area between rural residential agricultural areas and higher density rural
residential areas.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Maximum density: 20 lots per 40 acres.
      (2)   Minimum buildable area:
         (a)   Twenty-one-thousand-five-hundred square feet (single-family).
         (b)   One acre (2-family).
      (3)   Minimum lot area: 2 acres.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 165 feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet.
      (6)   Minimum setback from centerline of:
         (a)   County (CSAH) road: 135 feet.
         (b)   City street: 73 feet.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 20 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 40 feet.
         (c)   Accessory structure: 20 feet or 2 times the height of the
sidewall of the structure, whichever is greater.
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 25 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 20 feet or 2 times the height of the
sidewall of the structure, whichever is greater.
      (9)   Maximum height of structures.
         (a)   Principal structure: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure not to exceed the height of the principal
structure.
   (C)   Permitted uses. 
      (1)   Single-family dwellings and accessory structures are subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage
on a public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
         (b)   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the following conditions:
is a single parcel of land currently zoned for residential or commercial
purposes of not less than 20 acres and having a width not less than 500 feet
and its conveyance does not result in the division of a parcel into 2 or more
lots or parcels, any 1 of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width, and may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip
which is a minimum 2 rods in width.
         (c)   Horse keeping at a maximum density of 1 horse per 2½ acres or 2
miniature horses per 2½ acres.
      (2)   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      (3)   Daycare and residential facilities as required in M.S. Chapter 462,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Right-of-way management in accordance with §§
93.40 through
93.45.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Two-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage
on a public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision in
accordance with §
153.074.
         (b)   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the following conditions:
is a single parcel of land currently zoned for residential or commercial
purposes of not less than 20 acres and having a width not less than 500 feet
and its conveyance does not result in the division of a parcel into 2 or more
lots or parcels, any 1 of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in
width, and may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip
which is a minimum 2 rods in width.
      (2)   Conservation subdivisions in accordance with §
153.074.
      (3)   Golf courses and commercial outdoor recreation areas that are
similar to public recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf course
and swimming pools.
      (4)   Public parks for active recreation owned or operated by a
government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses
including museums or other buildings of historical significance.
      (5)   Recreational camping areas in accordance with §
153.009.
      (6)   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      (7)   Local government administration and service buildings.
      (8)   Community sewage treatment facilities.
      (9)   Greenhouse or nursery.
      (10)   Forestry and sod farming.
      (11)   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      (12)   Agriculture-oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      (13)   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines and towers not
exceeding 50 feet in height.
   (E)   Interim uses.
      (1)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.033.
      (2)   Bed and breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      (3)   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed 1 stand per parcel.
      (4)   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and
non-profit animal shelters.
      (5)   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses where there is a density of more than 1 horse per 2½ acres or more than
2 miniature horses per 2½ acres.
      (6)   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from
the earth.
      (7)   Personal use airstrips that are exempted from direct, individual
regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and standards.
(Ord. 2024-9-7, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.063 RTC RURAL TRANSIT CENTER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Rural Transit Center District is intended to provide
appropriate and centralized support facilities, and retail and service
businesses adjacent to the Interstate 35/County Road 17 highway interchange.
   (B)   Lot requirements.
      (1)   Maximum density: 8 lots per 40 acres.
      (2)   Minimum buildable area: 21,500 square feet.
      (3)   Minimum lot area: 5 acres.
      (4)   Minimum lot width: 200 feet.
      (5)   Minimum lot depth: 200 feet.
      (6)   Minimum setback from centerline of:
         (a)   County (CSAH) road: 135 feet.
         (b)   City street: 73 feet.
      (7)   Minimum side yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 10 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structures - AG building: 40 feet.
         (c)   Accessory structures - non-AG building: 10 feet.
      (8)   Minimum rear yard setback:
         (a)   Principal structure: 25 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure: 10 feet.
      (9)   Maximum height of structures:
         (a)   Principal structure: 35 feet.
         (b)   Accessory structure not to exceed the height of the principal
structure.
   (C)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings and accessory structures constructed prior
to 2011 shall be a permitted and conforming use. No new single-family dwellings
shall be permitted. Existing structures shall be subject to the use
restrictions as set forth herein.
      (2)   Annual agricultural cropping uses.
      (3)   Right-of-way management in accordance with §§
93.40 through
93.45.
   (D)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Public parking and transit facilities, provided:
         (a)   Adequate and appropriate on-site waste treatment, storm water
management and water supply systems are utilized.
         (b)   If the site is between 2½ and 10 acres that no more 50% of the
site is covered by impervious surfaces.
         (c)   If the site is greater than 10 acres, then no more than 30% of
the site is covered by impervious surfaces.
      (2)   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      (3)   Hospitals, convalescent homes, nursing homes, and medical clinics,
where public utilities are available.
      (4)   Superette or convenience grocery stores.
      (5)   Self-service gasoline stations.
      (6)   Automobile service stations.
      (7)   Automobile sales.
      (8)   Drive-in businesses.
      (9)   Restaurants.
      (10)   Hotels and motels.
      (11)   Retail and rental stores.
      (12)   General service and repair businesses.
      (13)   Financial institutions.
      (14)   Offices for professional services.
      (15)   Recreational vehicle sales and service.
      (16)   Commercial wireless telecommunication services, including towers
and antennae, provided that towers and antennae do not exceed 199 feet.
      (17)   Cannabis dispensary.
   (E)   Interim uses.
      (1)   Farm structures which are accessory or principle to agricultural
uses.
      (2)   Farm drainage systems, flood control and watershed structures and
erosion control devices meeting all county, state and soil conservation service
minimum standards.
      (3)   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses, where the density does not exceed 1 horse per 2½ acres or 2 miniature
horses per 2½ acres.
      (4)   Bed and breakfast establishments as principal or accessory use.
      (5)   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not exceed
1 stand per farm.
      (6)   Greenhouse or nursery.
      (7)   Forestry and sod farming.
      (8)   Home occupations in accordance with §
153.033.
      (9)   Daycare and residential facilities as required in M.S. Chapter 462,
as may be amended from time to time.
      (10)   Temporary equipment placement and operations.
      (11)   Asphalt processing operations, storage and staging.
      (12)   Light construction equipment storage areas.
      (13)   Other uses as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
   (F)   Prohibited uses. Any uses posing a real or potential hazard or threat
to public health, safety or welfare, and uses not specified as permitted or
conditional uses shall be prohibited.
   (G)   Development standards.
      (1)   Principal structure exterior building materials. All exterior wall
finishes on any building shall be 1 of or a combination of the following
materials:
         (a)   Face brick.
         (b)   Stucco.
         (c)   Glass.
         (d)   Wood, provided the surfaces are finished for exterior use.
         (e)   Natural stone.
         (f)   Specifically designed pre-cast concrete units with decorative
material/texture.
         (g)   Metal paneling only when paired with 1 or more of the other
approved materials outlined above.
         (h)   The following exterior materials are prohibited: unadorned pre-
stressed upright concrete panels, unfinished concrete block, galvanized or
unfinished steel, galvalume or unfinished aluminum building (wall or roofs),
pole-type materials, and any face materials which rapidly deteriorate or become
unsightly are not permitted as primary exterior building materials.
      (2)   Principal structure architectural standards.
         (a)   All structures shall have boxed eaves including soffit and
fascia.
         (b)   Articulation of the front customer entry.
         (c)   Requirements for the side of the building that directly faces a
public road right-of-way. A minimum of 15% of the façade facing the public
right-of-way shall be glass.
         (d)   Accent materials for decorative trims shall consist of materials
comparable in grade and quality to the primary exterior materials.
         (e)   Buildings shall be designed with a definable base, middle, and
top. Cornices and parapets are encouraged to define these sections of the
building.
         (f)   Facades of buildings that total more than 10,000 square feet
shall be visually broken into bays to avoid the appearance of large, blank
walls. Visual breaks in the façade shall be accomplished by alterations in the
plain of the façade; height of the façade; changes in materials, color texture,
or pattern; and/or the addition of columns, pilasters, and/or windows.
      (3)   There shall be no off-street parking or outside sales and display
within 20 feet of any street right-of-way.
      (4)   Open and outdoor storage areas shall be located in the rear yard or
behind the principal structure and be screened from view from adjacent public
right-of-way and adjacent properties.
      (5)   All signage shall comply with the sign ordinance as shown in §
153.090.
      (6)   Customer parking areas, loading areas, driveways, and traffic
maneuvering areas shall be surfaced with concrete or blacktop and finished with
continuous concrete curbing as recommended by the township engineer and
reflected on an approved site plan. Any site proposing to install any of the
above-named site improvements is subject to the site plan review process
established within the township ordinance. Auxiliary parking or overflow
parking areas may be surfaced with compacted aggregate, concrete, or blacktop.
      (7)   Minimum site landscaping requirements.
         (a)   All open space areas of a lot which are not used or improved for
required parking areas, drives or storage shall be landscaped with a
combination of overstory trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, flowers, ground
cover, decorative walks, or other similar site design materials in a quantity
and placement suitable for the site. A reasonable attempt should be made to
preserve as many existing trees as is practicable and to incorporate them into
the development.
         (b)   Number of plantings. The minimum number of overstory trees on
any given site shall be as indicated below. These are minimum requirements that
are typically supplemented with other understory trees, shrubs, flowers and
ground covers deemed appropriate for a complete quality landscape treatment of
a site. The complement of trees fulfilling the requirements of this section
shall be not less than 25% deciduous and not less than 25% coniferous.
 
Type of Planting                Standard
                                1 per 50 lineal feet of site perimeter, or 1
                                tree per 1,000 square feet of building.
Deciduous/coniferous trees      Building expansions require 1 additional tree
                                for each 1,000 square feet of additional
                                building area
                                1 per 50 feet of site perimeter or 1 per 500
Shrubs                          square feet of building footprint area,
                                whichever is greater
                                For every 50 feet of public road frontage, 1
                                overstory tree shall be planted on the private
Trees along public right-of-way property adjacent to the public road right-of-
                                way. Trees shall be planted so that at maturity
                                they do not interfere with roadway sight lines
 
      (c)   Minimum size of plantings. Landscape material shall be of the
following minimum planting size:
 
Landscape Material Minimum Planting Size
Deciduous trees    2.5 inches diameter as measured 3 feet above the ground
Coniferous trees   6 feet in height
Deciduous shrubs   2 feet in height
Evergreen shrubs   2 feet in height
Ornamental trees   1.5 inches diameter as measured 3 feet above the ground
 
(Ord. 2024-9-8, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.064 RBO RURAL BUSINESS OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Rural Business Overlay District is to
provide additional opportunities for businesses or new commercial development
that generally blend in with the surrounding rural residential land uses. Such
home occupations may require a special exception to standards outlined in §
153.033(D).
   (B)   District application. The Rural Business Overlay District is
established on properties with roadway frontage on either side of Forest
Boulevard, beginning 340th Street and continuing to the northern border of Lent
Township at 360th Street.
   (C)   Permitted uses. Permitted, interim and conditional uses shall be
identical to those allowed in the underlying zoning district.
   (D)   Lot size. Lot area requirements shall meet the minimums of those
established in the underlying zoning district.
   (E)   Lot width. Lot width requirements shall meet the minimums of those
established in the underlying zoning district.
   (F)   Additional standards. Special exceptions for home occupations require
a use permit as specified in §
153.060(D) and (E). Special exceptions for home occupations must comply with
performance standards as outlined in this section:
      (1)   Conduct of the home occupation does not require alterations to the
exterior of the residence which substantially alters the appearance of the
dwelling as a residence.
      (2)   Signage shall consist of no more than 1 single or double-faced sign
with a maximum area of 8 square feet per side in the Rural Residential
District.
      (3)   Should the home occupation be for repair or manufacturing, the
items being repaired or manufactured shall be of a size or nature where the
activity can take place within the home, or an accessory structure to the
principal use as allowed by this section.
      (4)   Home occupations may be conducted in an accessory structure
provided that the use can comply with all building and fire codes.
      (5)   The home occupation shall not generate sewage of a nature or type
that cannot be treated by a standard on-site sewage system or hazardous wastes
without an approved plan for off-site disposal.
      (6)   The number of daily customers for each home occupation shall be
limited to ensure the operation will not create a nuisance based on factors
such as the proposed use and the lot size upon which the home occupation is
located.
      (7)   The number of daily vehicle trips generated by each operation shall
be limited to ensure the operation will not create a nuisance based on factors
such as the number of customers, and the traffic flow in the area.
      (8)   If the home occupation will require a delivery service, such as
UPS, no more than 10 delivery/pickup trips per week shall be permitted.
      (9)   All off-street parking generated by the home occupation shall be
provided on a concrete, bituminous, or gravel surface in or adjacent to the
driveway.
      (10)   Between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., no customers or
employees who do not reside on the site may be at the site.
      (11)   No business operations occurring outside of the main dwelling are
permitted outside of the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (12)   The limited operation of an approved wholesale or retail business
is allowed.
(Ord. 2024-9-9, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.065 NRP NATURAL RESOURCE PRESERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. To ensure that the lands encompassed by the Carlos Avery
State Wildlife Management Area remain in an undeveloped and natural state in
perpetuity.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Open space uses consistent with the management plans, goals and
objectives established by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources for the
Carlos Avery State Wildlife Management Area.
      (2)   Right-of-way management in accordance with §§
93.40 through
93.45.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
   (D)   Prohibited uses. Any uses posing a real or potential hazard or threat
to public health, safety or welfare, and uses not specified as permitted or
conditional uses shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Signs in the Natural Preservation District. No signs shall be
permitted within the Natural Preservation District, except signs erected by
federal, state, county, or city governments for transportation and safety
purposes and signs erected or authorized by the Minnesota Department of
Resources.
   (F)   Amendment prohibited. It is the intent of the city to prohibit any
amendment to the land use regulations or re-delineation of the boundary of the
Natural Resource Preservation District that would result in:
      (1)   The subdivision of the lands within the Carlos Avery State Wildlife
Management Area, regardless of the present or future ownership of those lands.
      (2)   The establishment of any commercial, industrial or residential
development within the Carlos Avery State Wildlife Management Area, regardless
of the present or future ownership of those lands.
      (3)   The diminishment of the physical boundaries of the Natural Resource
Preservation District as they have originally been established at the time this
section is adopted.
(Ord. 2024-9-10, passed 9-10-2024)
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY CONTROL STANDARDS
§ 153.071 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum standards for the use
and preservation of the natural resources of the environment. The following
standards are established to help maintain safe and healthful conditions, to
prevent or control pollution of air and water, to preserve aquatic life and
natural beauty, to restore the environment following exploitation, and to
maintain compatible performance standards between uses.
(Prior Code, § 904.01) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.072 APPLICATION.
   All environmental quality control standards hereinafter specified shall be
applicable throughout the city and shall be enforced in addition to the
regulations set down under district use provisions.
(Prior Code, § 904.02) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.073 NUISANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Federal, state and local regulations apply. All uses shall comply with
all federal, state, and local pollution and nuisance laws and regulations,
including, but not limited to, glare, smoke, dust, odors, and noise. The burden
of proof for compliance of appropriate performance standards lie with the
applicant.
   (B)   Noise. Any use established shall be so operated that no undue or
objectionable noise resulting from the use is transmitted beyond the boundaries
of that lot or property on which the use is located. This standard shall not
apply to incidental traffic, parking, loading, construction, or maintenance
operations unless the noise is persistent or reoccurring and poses a threat to
the health, safety, or welfare of nearby residents.
   (C)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibration shall be
prohibited if such vibrations are perceptible to persons beyond the lot line of
the site on which the use is located. The standard shall not apply to
vibrations created during the process of construction.
   (D)   Waste material. No toxic, harmful waste material shall be washed into
the public storm sewer system or the sanitary sewer system without first having
received a permit to do so. Storage areas for waste material shall be located
and fenced in a satisfactory manner to avoid being a public nuisance. No toxic
or harmful liquid or solid waste shall be disposed of in the city without first
obtaining a permit to do so.
   (E)   Glare and heat. Any use requiring an operation producing an intense
heat or light transmission shall be performed with the necessary shielding to
prevent such heat or light from being objectionable at the lot line of the site
on which the use is located. Lighting in all instances shall be diffused or
directed away from R districts and public streets.
   (F)   Smoke and particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged or
remodeled on the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as to
control the emission of smoke or particulate matter to the degree that it is
not detrimental to or shall endanger the public health, safety, comfort or
general welfare.
   (G)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use established shall be so operated as
not to discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into
the atmosphere or the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein such use
is located toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as to be detrimental
to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare or cause injury or
damage to property or business.
   (H)   Odors. Any use established, enlarged or remodeled shall be so operated
as to prevent the emission of odorous or solid matter of such quality and
quantity as to be objectionable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on
which the use is located.
   (I)   Water pollution. All uses and activities shall conform to all
applicable federal, state and local water pollution standards and/or controls
in effect.
(Prior Code, § 904.03) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.074 STORAGE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Exterior storage. All materials and equipment shall be stored within a
building or fully screened so they will not be visible from adjoining
properties, except for the following: laundry drying and recreational
equipment, construction and landscaping materials and equipment currently being
used on the premises, agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or
intended for use on the premises, off-street parking except as otherwise
regulated herein. Boats and unoccupied trailers, less than 20 feet, are
permissible if stored in the rear yard not less than 10 feet distant from any
property line. Existing uses shall comply with this provision within 12 months
following enactment of this chapter.
   (B)   Bulk storage (liquid).
      (1)   Persons responsible for all uses associated with the bulk storage
of oil, gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemicals and similar liquids shall apply
for and obtain a special use permit in order that the governing body may have
assurance that fire, explosion, or water or soil contamination hazards are not
present that would be detrimental to the public health, safety, and general
welfare. All existing above ground liquid storage tanks having a capacity in
excess of 2,000 gallons shall secure a conditional use permit within 12 months
following enactment of this chapter; the governing body may require as a
condition to the permit, the development of dyking around said tanks, suitably
sealed, to hold a leakage capacity equal to 115% of tank capacity. Any existing
storage tank operations that, in the opinion of the governing body, constitutes
a hazard to the public safety shall discontinue within 5 years following
enactment of the ordinance.
      (2)   All newly constructed bulk liquid storage facilities shall be
surrounded with a sealed dyke to hold a leakage capacity equal to 115% of tank
capacity.
(Prior Code, § 904.04) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.075 VISUAL STANDARDS.
   Where any business or industrial use is adjacent to property zoned or
developed for residential use, that business or industry shall provide
screening along the boundary of the residential property if abutting property
owners petition the Planning Commission for said action and the Commission
shall find the petition to be valid or, at the latest, within 3 years from the
adoption of the ordinance set forth in this section if requested by the
Planning Commission. The general type and extent of the screening (such as a
fence and/or landscaping) shall be selected by the Planning Commission to
visually separate the different land uses or to discourage children from
entering or playing in the industrial area.
(Prior Code, § 904.05) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.076 ROADSIDE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Setback for roadside establishments. All roadside service and business
establishments shall be setback at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of
any state highway and at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of any county
or county-state aid highway and 40 feet from any township highway (except as
permitted by other sections of this chapter.)
   (B)   Screening for dumps and junk yards. Existing and new dumps and junk
yards shall be adequately screened by fencing or appropriate landscaping when
visible from any county or state highways.
   (C)   Signs in public right-of-way. Only signs authorized by the state,
county, and city and used for official service shall be allowed within the
public right-of-way.
   (D)   Signs along highways. Along all highways, no advertising or business
signs shall be erected which block safe driving vision, official signs, and
safety signals; nor shall these signs have flashing lights or moving parts
which may cause highway traffic hazards and shall conform to state law.
(Prior Code, § 904.06) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.077 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   In all districts, all structures, required landscaping and fences shall be
maintained so as not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 904.07) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.078 DRAINAGE STANDARDS.
   No land shall be developed, and no use shall be permitted that results in
water runoff causing flooding or erosion on adjacent properties. Such runoff
shall be properly channeled into a storm drain, water course, ponding area, or
other suitable facility.
(Prior Code, § 904.08) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.079 TRAFFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Traffic control. The traffic generated by any use shall be channelized
and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on public streets, safety
hazards, or excessive traffic through residential areas. Traffic into and out
of all business and industrial uses or areas shall in all cases be forward
moving with no backing onto streets or pedestrianways.
   (B)   Access driveways.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to establish minimum standards for
the design of safe ingress and egress for uses oriented to serving the motoring
public, but not including parking lots.
      (2)   The distance from a driveway to the intersection of 2 streets shall
not be less than 20 feet measured along the curb line with the property line
and the point of tangency of the curb lines with the curb return of the
driveway; provided, however, that if in the opinion of the engineer, present or
future traffic conditions warrant greater distances, shall be required subject
to approval by the governing body. The distance from a driveway to the
intersection of 2 thoroughfares shall be no less than 100 feet.
(Prior Code, § 904.09) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.080 INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall leave any partially dismantled, inoperative, wrecked,
or junked vehicle on any public road or public property.
   (B)   No person in charge or control of any property shall allow any
partially dismantled, inoperative, wrecked, or junked vehicle to remain on the
property longer than 30 days where the vehicle is visible from a public road or
the main floor of any dwelling; nor shall any person allow an unlicensed
vehicle capable of being operated to remain on the property if the vehicle has
been unlicensed in the current year. The current license must be affixed to the
license plate which is affixed to the car and visible from the street. The only
exception is in the Agricultural District where partially dismantled,
inoperative, wrecked, or junked motor vehicles or goods may remain on the
property if enclosed in a building or if located within an area not visible to
the public or neighboring property.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2017-7-1, passed 7-11-2017; Am. Ord.
2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.081 HAZARDOUS ELEMENTS STANDARDS.
   (A)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, utilization, or
manufacturing of products which could decompose by detonation shall be located
not less than 400 feet from any R district line or any buildings on adjacent
land and any public right-of-way, provided that this section shall not apply to
the storage or usage of liquefied petroleum or natural gas for normal
residential or business purposes.
   (B)   Radiation and electrical emission. No activities shall be permitted
that emit dangerous radiosedvity beyond enclosed areas. There shall be no
electrical disturbance (except from domestic household appliances) adversely
affecting the operation at any point of any equipment, including, but not
limited to, radio and television reception other than that of the creator of
the disturbance.
(Prior Code, § 904.11) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.082 FEED LOTS - LIVESTOCK POLLUTION.
   (A)   No manure shall be deposited, stored, kept, or allowed to remain in or
upon any storage site or feed lot without reasonable safeguards adequate to
prevent the escape or movement of the manure or a solution thereof from the
site under any conditions whereby substantial pollution of any waters of the
state might result therefrom.
   (B)   In the case that the Zoning Administrator shall find adequate
safeguards are not present, he or she may by order require the owners or other
responsible persons to immediately remove the manure from the feed lot or
storage site and refrain from further storage or keeping of any manure there
unless and until an adequate safeguard is provided.
   (C)   No feed lot or manure storage site shall be located within 500 feet of
a residential structure on an abutting lot.
(Prior Code, § 904.12)
§ 153.083 SANITARY LANDFILLS.
   All dumps and sanitary landfills shall conform to the regulations and
standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the county.
(Prior Code, § 904.13) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.084 MINERAL EXTRACTION.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to protect the public health, safety
and welfare through the following:
      (1)   Identify areas in the city where mineral extraction is most
appropriate and minimizes conflicts with other land uses.
      (2)   Establish permitting requirements, environmental review procedures
and performance standards to regulate mineral extraction.
      (3)   Establish standards which prevent or minimize environmental and
aesthetic impacts on extracted properties, adjacent properties and the
community as a whole.
      (4)   Establish standards and financial guarantees that restore extracted
land to a condition compatible with adjacent properties and suitable for future
uses which are compatible with the City of Stacy Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   When used in this section, the following terms shall have the meaning
associated with them:
      ACCESSORY USES. Include the manufacture, storage and sale of products
made from minerals.
      DUST. Airborne mineral particulate matter.
      EXCAVATION. The movement of minerals on a site.
      MINERAL. Sand, gravel, rock, soil, clay and similar higher density non-
metallic natural minerals.
      MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal of minerals from the ground and off the
subject property.
      MINERAL EXTRACTION FACILITY. Any area used for mineral extraction and
processing minerals.
      MINERAL EXTRACTION PERMIT. The permit required for mineral extraction
facilities.
      OPERATOR. Any person or persons, partnerships, or corporations or
assignees, including public or governmental agencies, engaging in mineral
extraction.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The extraction, crushing, screening, mixing, storage and
sale of minerals from the facility.
      PROCESSING. Any activity which may include the crushing, screening,
mixing, and stockpiling of sand, gravel, rocks, or similar mineral products
into consumable products such as fill, construction grade sand, gravel, roadway
mixes, and other similar granular products.
      REHABILITATION. To renew land to self-sustaining long-term use which is
compatible with contiguous land uses, present and future, in accordance with
the standards set forth in this section.
      SOIL. A natural 3-dimensional body of the earth's surface.
      SUBJECT PROPERTY. The land on which mineral extraction is permitted.
      TOPSOIL. The upper portion of the soils present that is the most
favorable material for plant growth. A mineral extraction permit is required
for all mineral excavation facilities. A mineral extraction permit is an
interim use and shall be processed in accordance with § 153.190 and the
additional procedures and requirements of this section. Legal nonconforming
mineral extraction facilities expanding on new parcels after adoption of this
section shall be required to obtain an interim use permit consistent with the
provisions of this section.
   (C)   A mineral extraction permit shall not be required for the following:
      (1)   Excavation for a structure if a building permit has been issued.
      (2)   Excavation in a right-of-way or utility corridor by federal, state,
county, or city authorities in connection with construction or maintenance of
public improvements.
      (3)   Excavations not exceeding 400 cubic yards annually.
      (4)   Excavation for agricultural purposes.
      (5)   Excavation for public utility purposes.
   (E)   Permit application requirements.
      (1)   An application for a mineral extraction permit shall be submitted
to the city on a form supplied by the city. Information shall include but not
be limited to the following:
         (a)   The following maps of the entire site and to include areas
within 500 feet of the site. All maps shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch to
200 feet unless otherwise stated below:
            1.   Map A: Existing conditions to include:
               i.   Property boundaries.
               ii.   Contour lines at 10 foot intervals.
               iii.   Existing vegetation.
               iv.   Existing drainage and permanent water areas.
               v.   Existing structures.
               vi.   Existing wells and private sewer systems of record.
               vii.   Existing pipelines, power lines and other utilities.
               viii.   Easements.
            2.   Map B: Proposed operations to include:
               i.   Property boundaries.
               ii.   Structures to be erected.
               iii.   Location of sites to be mined showing depth of proposed
excavation.
               iv.   Location of tailings deposits showing maximum height of
deposits.
               v.   Location of processing areas and machinery to be used in
the mining operation.
               vi.   Location of storage of mined materials, showing height of
storage deposits.
               vii.   Location of vehicle parking.
               viii.   Location of storage of explosives.
               ix.   Erosion and sediment control structures.
               x.   Haul routes.
            3.   Map C: End use plan to include:
               i.   Property boundaries.
               ii.   Final grade of proposed site showing elevations and
contour lines at 5-foot intervals.
               iii.   Location and species of vegetation to be replanted.
               iv.   Location and nature of any structure to be erected in
relation to the end use plan.
               v.   Turf rehabilitation plan.
         (b)   Name, address, phone number, contact person for the operator.
         (c)   Name, address, phone number of the landowner.
         (d)   Names of the adjacent landowners including all those within a 1/
4 mile radius of the boundary line of the subject property.
         (e)   Acreage and complete legal description of the subject property
on which the facility will be located, including all contiguous property owned
by the landowners.
         (f)   A narrative outlining the type of material to be excavated, mode
of operation, estimated quantity of material to be extracted, plans for
blasting, and other pertinent information to explain the request in detail.
         (g)   Phasing plan and estimated timeframe to operate the facility. A
description of all vehicles and equipment estimated to be used in the operation
of the facility, including a description of the estimated average daily and
peak daily number of vehicles accessing the facility.
         (h)   Any other information or documentation required for issuance of
an interim use permit under §
153.190.
      (2)   Every application for a mineral extraction permit shall include
submission of supporting documentation which shall include, but is not limited
to the following:
         (a)   A description of existing land uses on the subject property and
all properties within 1/4 mile.
         (b)   A description of land use designations in the Comprehensive Plan
and zoning classifications of the subject property and all properties within 1/
4 mile.
         (c)   A description of the soil, vegetation, mineral content and
topography of the subject property. A minimum of 3 soil boring logs
representative of the site and a description of the subsurface materials on the
subject property must be submitted.
         (d)   A general description of surface waters, existing drainage
patterns and groundwater conditions within 1/4 mile of the subject property.
         (e)   A general description of the depth, quantity, quality and
intended uses of the mineral deposits on the subject property.
         (f)   Copies of the MPCA application documents and operating permits.
         (g)   A description of the site hydrology and drainage characteristics
during extraction for each phase of mineral extraction. Identify any locations
where drainage of any disturbed areas will not be controlled on the subject
property and plans to control erosion, sedimentation and water quality of the
runoff.
         (h)   A description of the potential impacts to adjacent properties
resulting from mineral extraction and off-site transportation, including but
not limited to noise, dust, surface water runoff, groundwater contamination,
traffic and aesthetics.
         (i)   A description of the plan to mitigate potential impacts
resulting from mineral extraction.
         (j)   A description of site screening, landscaping and security
fencing.
         (k)   Site rehabilitation plans for each phase of operation and upon
completion of mineral extraction on the subject property.
         (l)   A description of the method in which complaints about any aspect
of the mineral extraction facility operation or off-site transportation are to
be received and the method which complaints are to be resolved.
         (m)   A plan for groundwater quality protection. A minimum of 3 cross-
sections showing the extent of overburden, extent of sand and gravel deposits,
the water table, and any evidence of the water table in the past. The Planning
Commission reserves the right to require additional borings if necessary.
   (F)   Permitting procedure.
      (1)   A request for a mineral extraction permit, as provided within this
section, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form, the required application fee shall be paid, and a deposit
made to reimburse the city for its out-of-pocket costs in processing the
application. The application shall also be accompanied by 10 copies of detailed
written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use as specified under division (E) of this section. The Zoning
Administrator shall refer the application along with all related information,
to the Planning Commission for consideration.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notice a public hearing to be held
by the Planning Commission. Notice of such hearing shall be published in the
official newspaper of the city at least 10 days prior to the date of the
hearing. Written notice of public hearing shall be sent to the governing bodies
of the affected city and any municipality located within 2 miles of the
affected property. Written notice shall also be sent to all property owners of
record within 500 feet of the affected property in incorporated areas and to
property owners within 1/4 miles of the affected property or the nearest 10
properties in unincorporated areas, whichever would provide notice to the
greatest number of owners. A copy of the notice and a list of the property
owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the
Zoning Administrator and made a part of official record. The failure to give
mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice, shall
not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with
this division has been made.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant or to retain expert testimony with
the consent and at the expense of the applicant if said information is declared
to be necessary by the city to review the request or to establish performance
conditions in relation to this section.
      (4)   The Planning Commission and City Council may refer the application
for review and comment to other agencies, including but not limited to the Soil
and Water Conservation District and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend
such actions or conditions relating to the request to the City Council. The
city may impose such additional restrictions or conditions as deemed necessary
to protect the public interest. These conditions may include, but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Matters relating to the appearance.
         (b)   Hours of operation.
         (c)   Increasing setbacks.
         (d)   Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings.
         (e)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points.
         (f)   Increasing street width and improving access conditions.
         (g)   Requiring diking, berming, fencing, screening, landscaping, or
other facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property.
         (h)   Limiting the area to be mined.
         (i)   Requiring phased rehabilitation.
         (j)   Requiring financial security to guarantee compliance with the
conditions of approval.
         (k)   Water quality monitoring.
      (6)   The City Council shall approve, modify, or deny the request and
state the findings of its actions. Approval of an interim use permit shall
require passage by majority vote of the City Council. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify the applicant of the City Council's action.
      (7)   Reapplication for the same or substantially same interim use permit
shall not be accepted within 6 months of denial by the City Council. Any
interim use permit approved but not used within 12 months of the date of
approval shall be null and void.
      (8)   Any change to the approved interim use permit shall require an
amended interim use permit. Any expansion beyond the original boundaries shall
not be considered an amended permit and shall require a new interim use permit.
   (G)   The city shall require the applicant or owner of the property on which
the mineral extraction is occurring, to post a bond, letter of credit or cash
escrow in such form and sum as determined by the City Council as part of the
permit. The security shall be sufficient to reimburse the following costs:
      (1)   Costs of bringing the operation into compliance with the mineral
extraction permit requirements, including site monitoring and enforcement
costs.
      (2)   Extraordinary costs of repairing roads due to the special burden
resulting from the hauling of materials and traffic associated with the
operation. The amount of such cost shall be determined by the City Engineer.
      (3)   Site restoration.
      (4)   Costs the city may incur in enforcing the terms of the interim use
permit, including attorney's fees.
   (H)   Annual certification of all mineral excavation permits is required.
The purpose of the annual certification is to maintain an updated listing of
active conditional uses in the city, to decertify any permits where the
activity has ceased, and to monitor compliance with the conditions of approval.
Permit holders must complete and return certification forms provided by the
city. Failure to maintain certification shall be cause for revocation of the
permit.
   (I)   The following uses are prohibited unless specifically authorized in
the mineral extraction permit:
      (1)   The washing of the extracted material.
      (2)   The production or manufacturing of veneer stone, sills, lintels,
cut flagstone, hearthstones, paving stone and similar architectural or
structural stone, and the storing or stockpiling of such products on the site.
      (3)   The manufacture of concrete building blocks or other similar
blocks, the production or manufacture of lime products, the production of
ready-mixed concrete, asphalt and any similar production or manufacturing
processes.
   (J)   The following performance standards apply to all mineral extraction
facilities in the city:
      (1)   The minimum lot size for which mineral extraction permits may be
issued is 20 acres. The Zoning Administrator may issue an administrative permit
for a temporary extraction activity on less than 20 acres associated with local
construction projects. The permit shall be limited to 1 calendar year in
duration and shall be subject to all performance standards of this section,
unless certain standards are specifically waived by the Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Administrator may also require additional conditions, such as
specifying haul routes and guaranteeing haul route maintenance and repair.
      (2)   Mineral extraction facilities shall operate only between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
         (a)   Operators are allowed a maximum of 5 1-day extensions to the
hours of operation for evening work in a calendar year. Operators must notify
the city in advance of the proposed extension. Other exceptions to the hours of
operation must be approved by the city. Approval may only be granted in
conjunction with the furnishing of material for a public improvement project
that is underway during hours that the mineral extraction facility is not
otherwise allowed to operate. Approval will be limited to those functions that
cannot occur during normal hours of operation.
         (b)   Other exceptions approved by the City Council.
      (3)   Fencing, signs, and barriers shall be required around ponding areas
and steep sloped excavation areas.
      (4)   The location of the intersection of mining access roads with any
public roads shall be selected such that traffic on the access roads will have
a sufficient distance of the public road in view so that any turns onto the
public road can be completed with a margin of safety.
      (5)   Dust control.
         (a)   Operators shall be responsible for providing dust control on all
gravel roads used by trucks hauling to or from a mineral excavation facility.
Unless waived by the City Council in lieu of other remedies, watering roadways
will be required when conditions warrant it.
         (b)   The city may require watering in a facility when it is
determined that airborne dust from extraction areas, processing activities,
stockpiles or internal roadways creates a public nuisance. Other remedies to
control dust may include berming, landscaping, and enclosures for processing
equipment. All equipment used for mining operations shall be constructed,
maintained, and operated in such a manner as to minimize dust conditions, as
far as practicable. All access roads from mining operations to public highways,
roads, or streets, or to adjoining property shall be paved or surfaced with
gravel to minimize dust conditions.
      (6)   Maximum noise levels at the facility will be consistent with the
standards established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      (7)   Operators shall use all practical means to eliminate adverse
impacts on adjacent properties from vibration of equipment.
      (8)   All activities on the subject property will be conducted in a
manner consistent with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's operating
permits.
      (9)   The mineral extraction operation shall not allow surface water to
leave the site in a manner that causes flooding, erosion, or alteration of
natural drainage patterns. The mineral extraction operation shall not adversely
affect the quality of surface or subsurface water. Surface water originating
outside and passing through the mineral extraction facility shall, at its point
of departure from the mining site, be of equal quality to the water at the
point where it enters the mining site. The operator shall perform any water
treatment necessary to comply with this division.
      (10)   To minimize problems of dust and noise and to shield mining
operations from public view, a screening barrier may be required between the
mining site and adjacent properties. The design of the screening barrier shall
be adequate to provide screening that would minimize the visual interruption of
the surrounding landscape. When practicable, a screening barrier must be
maintained between the mineral extraction operation and any public road.
      (11)   Vehicles, equipment, or materials not associated with the mineral
extraction facility or not in operable condition may not be kept or stored at
the facility, except as specifically authorized in the interim use permit.
      (12)   Mineral extraction shall occur no closer than 50 feet from any
property line or road easement. An exception to the property line setback
requirement may be considered on a case-by- case basis where 2 mineral
extraction facilities share a common lot line and the City Council determines
it to be in the city's interest to waive all or portions of the contiguous
setback areas between the facilities. The setback for all other equipment and
activities shall be based upon performance standards for noise, dust control,
visual screening and the like as determined in the application review process.
      (13)   Phasing plans must be prepared for all mineral extraction
facilities. The plans shall include the details and schedule for rehabilitation
in the transition of 1 phase to another.
      (14)   Existing trees and ground cover outside of mineral extraction
areas shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
      (15)   The operators shall be required to control noxious weeds and mow
or harvest other vegetation to maintain reasonable appearance of the site.
      (16)   Any waste generated from the mining operation, including waste
from vehicle or equipment maintenance, shall be disposed of in accordance with
federal, state, and city requirements.
      (17)   The importation of recycled concrete and asphalt may be considered
an accessory use, at the discretion of the City Council, provided also that it
is processed and prepared for construction reuse or sale.
      (18)   The operators must comply with all other federal, state, regional,
city, and local laws and regulations applicable to the operation of the mineral
extraction facility, including but not limited to floodplain management
regulations, shoreland management regulations, and zoning ordinance
regulations.
      (19)   The city may impose additional regulations and requirements to the
mineral extraction permit to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (K)   Land rehabilitation plans for mineral extraction permits must include
the grading plans, topsoil replacement, seeding, mulching, erosion control, and
sedimentation control specifications for each phase and the final site
restoration. The following minimum standards and conditions apply:
      (1)   Final grades may not exceed a 3:1 ratio (33% slope), except for
rehabilitated areas in existence at the time of adoption of this section. In
completing final grading in each phase, the top of the slope may begin 20 feet
from property lines.
      (2)   A minimum of 3 inches of topsoil shall be placed on all graded
surfaces.
      (3)   Seeding and mulching shall be consistent with Minnesota Department
of Transportation specifications for rights-of-way. Exceptions to seeding and
mulching include areas returned to agricultural production.
      (4)   Soil restoration, seeding, and mulching must occur within each
phase as soon as final grades, or interim grades identified in the phasing
plans, have been reached. Exceptions to seeding and mulching include the
processing, storage, and staging areas within each phase.
      (5)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be consistent
with MPCA's "Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas."
      (6)   Unless otherwise amended or approved by the city, all final grades
and site restoration efforts shall be consistent with the rehabilitation plan.
      (7)   Within 6 months after completion of mineral extraction or after
termination of the permit, all equipment, vehicles, machinery, materials, and
debris shall be removed from the subject property.
      (8)   Within 12 months after completion of mineral extraction or after
termination of the permit, site rehabilitation must be completed.
      (9)   All water areas resulting from excavation shall be eliminated upon
rehabilitation of the site. In unique instances where the City Council has
reviewed proposals for water bodies at the time of approval of the overall plan
and has determined that such would be appropriate as an open space or
recreational amenity in subsequent reuse of the site, water bodies may be
permitted.
(Prior Code, § 904.13) (Am. Ord. 2024-9-4, passed 9-10-2024; Am. Ord. 2024-10-
2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.085 LAND RECLAMATION.
   All land reclamation shall meet the following standards:
   (A)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a time as
feasible;
   (B)   Temporary ground cover is used and permanent ground cover, such as
sod, is planted;
   (C)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed;
   (D)   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards;
   (E)   Final slopes for cut slopes should be a maximum of 1:1; or 100%; fill
slope 3:1 or 30%; and grade or construction slope, 5:1 or 20%.
(Prior Code, § 904.14) (Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.086 EROSION CONTROL AND LANDSCAPE STANDARDS. 
   (A)   Sod and seed.
      (1)   The builder or lot purchaser, except as otherwise permitted in this
section, shall spread a minimum of 4 inches of topsoil. All boulevard, front
and side yard areas to the rear of the structure shall be sodded. Seed and
mulch may be installed in the back yard. Weather permitting, sod and seed shall
be planted within 60 days after a home is constructed on a lot.
      (2)   The builder shall furnish a cash landscaping escrow. The escrow
shall be set according to the city fee schedule and the purpose is to guarantee
compliance with the following:
         (a)   The landscaping requirement;
         (b)   Lot grading requirements from the certificate of survey;
         (c)   To certify that the elevation of the sod in relationship to the
building and the water service curb stop box is acceptable to the city; and
         (d)   Submittal of a certified as-built lot certificate of survey to
city for some lots.
      (3)   The distance from building siding, untreated wood, to top of the
sod shall be a minimum of 6 inches to satisfy Building Code requirements.
      (4)   Curb stop (water shut off) elevation in relationship to sod surface
shall be approved by the city after sod is installed. The landscaping escrow
submitted by the builder to the city shall be retained until all required work
is approved.
      (5)   For all lots, the city shall verify that final lot grading
satisfies grading plan requirements and that the work was performed to city
requirements after the sod and trees are installed. In addition, a certified
as-built lot certificate of survey is required for lots that have emergency
overflow (E.O.F.) swales and any other lot that abuts any drainage way, swale,
or critical drainage flow path.
      (6)   If all of the landscaping requirements are not timely completed,
the city may enter the lot, perform the work, and apply the landscaping escrow
toward the cost. Upon satisfactory completion of the landscaping, the escrow
funds, without interest, less any draw made by the city, shall be returned to
the person who deposited the funds with the city.
   (B)   Trees.
      (1)   Lots with existing trees. The builder shall furnish a cash tree
preservation escrow of $1,000 per lot for each lot with at least 1 existing
significant tree at the time of the building permit application. A significant
tree is defined as a tree that is 6 inches in diameter measured 2 feet above
the ground level.
      (2)   Lots without trees. Trees shall be planted for new subdivisions. In
new subdivisions where 2 trees of the following sizes do not already exist an
each lot, trees shall be planted on each lot. The following tree specifications
shall apply to each platted lot in the proposed subdivision:
         (a)   Required subdivision trees.
            1.   Two balled and burlapped trees will be required per lot. These
trees shall be planted in the front yard, outside of any easement dedication.
            2.   Caliper: a minimum of 2.5 inches in trunk diameter measured 2
feet above the ground level.
         (b)   Location. Front yard trees shall be planted in the front yard,
but at a distance of at least 10 feet from the front property line and 5 feet
from any side property line. No required subdivision tree shall be planted
inside of any drainage or utility easement, as verified through the final plat
recorded with the county, or within a 40 foot clear view triangle on corner
lots. The clear view triangle is the area established for visibility clearance
at the intersection. The area of the clear view triangle is defined as follows:
beginning at the intersection of the projected lot lines of the corner lot,
thence 40 feet along one lot line, thence diagonally to a point 40 feet from
the point of beginning on the opposite line.
         (c)   Type.
            1.   Trees shall consist of nursery stock and be no less than the
following sizes:
               a.   Deciduous trees - no less than 2.5 inches in diameter;
               b.   Coniferous trees - no less than 6 feet high.
            2.   Trees can include those species shown on the following table:
               a.   Deciduous trees:
 
Maple             Oak
Linden (Basswood) Birch
Honey Locust      Gingko (male only)
Hackberry         Kentucky Coffeetree
European Larch     
 
               b.   Coniferous trees:
 
Fir                  Eastern Hemlock
Green Spruce         Canadian Hemlock
Colorado Blue Spruce Northern White Cedar
Black Hills Spruce   Cedar
Austrian Pine        Tamarack
White Pine            
 
               c.   Other species of trees may be approved by the Building
Inspector or Zoning Administrator. Trees which can cause a public nuisance,
such as cotton producing trees, or can be a public hazard, such as bug
infection or weak bark, are prohibited.
      (3)   Wooded areas. Wooded lots may be exempt from the provisions of this
section, provided that existing tree cover fulfills the aforementioned
requirements for front yard trees.
      (4)   Custom graded lots.
         (a)   On a lot with at least one significant tree, the builder shall
prepare an individual lot tree preservation plan (TPP) on the site survey which
is consistent with the original TPP for the plat.
         (b)   The individual lot TPP shall be certified by a forester or
landscape architect, signed by the homeowner and submitted to the city for
approval with the building permit.
      (5)   Mass graded lots. On a lot with at least 1 significant tree to be
saved, the builder shall follow the original TPP for the plat.
      (6)   Tree replacement requirements. If significant trees are destroyed
or damaged, the builder shall replace the significant trees which were to be
saved under the TPP, but which were ultimately destroyed or damaged. The
subdivider and builder shall be required to replace each of the significant
trees destroyed or damaged with 2 replacement trees. If tree replacement is
required on the individual lot because the builder destroyed or damaged a tree,
which was to be saved, the applicant’s forester or landscape architect shall
determine the location of installation of the replacement trees.
      (7)   Escrow release. Prior to the release of the cash tree preservation
escrow, the applicant’s forester or landscape architect shall certify to the
city in writing that all tree protection measures identified on the TPP were
installed from the start of construction through the end of construction and
that tree replacement has been completed, if necessary. Upon satisfactory
completion, the tree preservation cash escrow funds, without interest, less any
draw made by the city, shall be returned to the party who deposited the funds
with the city.
      (8)   City may perform work. If tree preservation and installation is not
timely completed, the city is hereby granted license to enter the lot, perform
the work and apply the tree preservation escrow toward the cost.
   (C)   Landscaping other than trees, sod and seed.
      (1)   Landscaping rocks, black dirt, soil, and other landscaping material
shall not be temporary or permanent dumped on city streets or drainage
easement, and such action constitutes a violation of the code. The prohibition
under this subsection is due to safety concerns for drivers and the resulting
problems of interruption of storm water flow, increased erosion and flooding.
      (2)   Installing shrubs within a street right-of-way is not permitted.
Installing flowers and rock gardens in the street right-of-way is prohibited.
Trees must be pruned so as not to obstruct visibility within the street right-
of way.
      (3)   If shrubs are not installed in the proper location, the city shall
require the owner to move them. If the landscaping is not moved within 30 days
of written notice by the city to the owner, the city may enter the lot, perform
the work and apply the landscaping escrow toward the cost.
   (D)   Silt fences and erosion control.
      (1)   Properties in violation of this section shall be notified in
writing with a notice of violation. The notice shall describe the actions to be
performed in order for the property to be in conformance. The items in the
notice must to be remedied within 48 hours of the date on the notice or a stop
work order shall be issued and mitigative action may be taken by the city. All
costs incurred by the city shall be deducted from the property’s erosion
control escrow, including a fee for each necessary reinspection of the property
in an amount set forth in the current city fee schedule.
      (2)   The City Zoning Administrator and/or the City Engineer will enforce
this provision. The procedures are as follows:
         (a)   Builder shall install building construction stakes as needed;
         (b)   Builder shall install all necessary erosion control measures,
including, but not limited to, full perimeter silt fence and a rock
construction entrance which covers and protects existing concrete and
bituminous curb;
         (c)   Builder shall install a dumpster for construction debris;
         (d)   Upon completion of the above items, the basement excavator may
commence excavation and shall refrain from driving on any unprotected curb and
gutter or sidewalk;
         (e)   In the event the silt fence is damaged during house
construction, the fence shall be repaired immediately as directed by the City
Zoning Inspector. If the fence is not repaired, the Building Official shall
immediately issue a stop construction order which shall be effective until the
silt fence is repaired.
         (f)   Builder shall grade the lot immediately prior to closing. If the
new homeowner installs the sod and seed, the entire silt fence shall remain in
place after the time of closing. If the new homeowner does not install the sod
and seed, the entire silt fence shall remain in place to protect the seeded and
sodded areas, as long as needed, at the time of closing.
         (g)   The new homeowner or builder shall remove the silt fence after
turf has been established.
         (h)   If erosion occurs, the property owner is responsible for all
clean up costs and property damage.
         (i)   Within 10 days of the closing on the sale of the property, the
Builder shall give written notice to the City Zoning Administrator and/or City
Clerk of the change of ownership. Responsibility for clean up costs and damage
to property due to erosion shall then become the responsibility of the new
owner. The notice shall include the new owner’s name, mailing address and phone
number.
         (j)   Prior to commencement of construction, the builder or homeowner
shall install the city required erosion control measures. The following is
required for all home sites:
            1.   Silt fence shall be properly installed and maintained along
the back of the curb, or sidewalk if applicable, and along the entire length of
the lot. The silt fence shall continue around the full perimeter of the lot;
            2.   A rock construction entrance shall be installed and
maintained;
            3.   Streets must be cleaned as needed at the end of each workday.
         (k)   A drawing of the minimum erosion control measures required for
every home site shall be obtained by the builder or owner from the city.
         (l)   The erosion control measures listed above are the minimum city
requirements. Certain home sites may require additional erosion control
measures as directed by the City Engineer or Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Escrows and financial guarantee.
      (1)   Landscape escrow and financial guarantee. The cash landscape escrow
and financial guarantee shall be in an amount as determined by the City
Council.
      (2)   Tree escrow. The cash tree preservation escrow shall be as set
forth in the current city fee schedule for each lot with at least 1 existing
significant tree.
   (F)   Sump pump. Discharging water from sump pumps into the street shall not
be permitted, because such practice may cause unsafe driving conditions during
winter freeze and thaw cycle. Discharge to the underground storm sewer or
backyard is allowed.
   (G)   Sidewalk and curb and gutter protection. The builder shall protect
sidewalks, as well as curb and gutter, from construction vehicles by placing a
minimum of 6 inches of Class 5 gravel or crushed concrete on top of the
sidewalk and curb and gutter before any vehicles shall cross. Sidewalks, or
curb and gutter, which are cracked or other damage during construction shall be
replaced with new sidewalk or curb and gutter prior to the release of the
landscape escrow.
   (H)   Fence for construction debris. Prior to commencing any earth
disturbing activity, the building contractor shall furnish and install a 3 foot
high chicken wire fence with 7 foot long metal stakes to hold up the fence. A
similar fence shall be furnished and installed by the building contractor with
a minimum size of 10 feet by 10 feet for holding construction debris. The
purpose of this requirement is to minimize construction debris being blown onto
another property. Furnishing and installing a dumpster shall be allowed in lieu
of a chicken wire fence, providing that the dumpster shall not be located on a
sidewalk, and further providing that the truck servicing the dumpster shall
drive only across sidewalks that are protected by gravel or crushed concrete.
(Ord. 2002-7-1, passed 7-9-2002; Am. Ord. 2013-1-4, passed 1-8-2013; Am. Ord.
2016-11-5, passed 11-9-2016; Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
§ 153.087 BIOFUEL BURNERS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is recognized and found that wood smoke and smoke
generated by other outdoor solid fuel (biofuel) heating devices is hazardous to
an individual's health and may affect the health of the general public when
they are involuntarily exposed to the presence of smoke, and that breathing
smoke is a significant health hazard particularly to children, elderly people,
individuals with cardiovascular disease, and individuals with impaired
respiratory functions. It is also recognized that biofuel burners are designed
and intended to be a primary heat source, and therefore burn and emit smoke on
a continual basis. Furthermore, significant fire safety risks are involved with
units that are not properly installed, or do not have proper safety equipment
such as spark arrestors; or are installed in close proximity to other
buildings. The purpose of this section is to protect the public health, safety,
comfort and general welfare of citizens against the hazards posed by biofuel
burners.
   (B)   Definitions.
      BIOFUEL BURNER. A device, structure, or apparatus that supplies direct or
indirect heat to a building from the burning of solid fuel, including but not
limited to, wood, corn, biomass pellets and other solid biofuels. Traditional
woodburning stoves and fireplaces are excepted from this section.
      STACK or CHIMNEY. Any vertical structure enclosing a flue or flues that
carry off smoke or exhaust from a biofuel burner.
   (C)   Prohibition. Outdoor biofuel burners are prohibited and shall not be
installed or operated within the city.
   (D)   Preexisting outdoor biofuel burners.
      (1)   All legally existing biofuel burners installed within city limits
at the time of adoption of this section are required to meet emission standards
currently required by the United States Environmental Protection Agency
(USEPA), which are hereby adopted by reference, together with any amendments or
modifications made to them in the future.
      (2)   Preexisting outdoor biofuel burners shall also be subject to the
use regulations set forth in divisions (B), (F) and (G) herein. No preexisting
biofuel burners shall hereafter be extended, enlarged, or expanded. At such
time as the useful life of a nonconforming wood-burning unit or solid fuel-
fired heating device has elapsed, or would need to be repaired to function
properly, the unit cannot be replaced and must be abandoned, not used, and
removed from the property immediately.
   (E)   Permit required. The city requires any person to obtain a building
permit for any biofuel burner to be installed within a building after the date
this section becomes effective.
   (F)   Registration. All existing burner shall be registered with the city
within 60 days of the date of this section using a form approved by the city.
   (G)   Use regulations. All permitted biofuel burners shall be subject to the
following use regulations:
      (1)   Stacks.
         (a)   The minimum stack height for any biofuel burner shall meet or
exceed the manufacturer’s guidelines.
         (b)   Any existing, noncomplying stack shall be removed, replaced, or
modified within a period of 60 days from the receipt of a notice generated from
the Building Official.
         (c)   All stacks or chimneys must be constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and according to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the biofuel burner.
      (2)   Use period. Biofuel burners may only be used each year from
September 1 to May 31, unless the furnace is being used to provide domestic
water service.
      (3)   Allowed fuels. Only the following materials may be burned in the
biofuel burner: biomass pellets, corn, firewood, and clean, untreated lumber or
other wood product prepared or cut to length appropriate for burning.
      (4)   Waste incineration prohibited. No biofuel burners shall be utilized
in any manner as a waste incinerator, nor shall diseased wood be used.
      (5)   Smoke and fumes. Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or
cinders, in unreasonable quantities, or any use of biofuel burner to burn solid
fuels other than those solid fuels for which the biofuel burner was designed,
is declared a public nuisance.
      (6)   Fuel storage. Outdoor fuel storage is limited to two cords of wood,
which is the amount of wood that can be stacked to 4 feet high by 4 feet wide
by 8 feet long. Other fuel sources are similarly limited to a volume not to
exceed 4 feet high by 4 feet wide by 8 feet long. Any structures constructed to
contain or store fuel for biofuel burners must be constructed in accordance
with the applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2013-6-1, passed 6-11-2013; Am. Ord. 2024-10-2, passed 10-8-2024)
SIGNS
§ 153.090 FINDINGS.
   The city finds:
   (A)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and quality
of the environment;
   (B)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may convey
a variety of messages;
   (C)   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns, and detriments
to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety, and welfare;
and
   (D)   The city’s zoning regulations have historically included the
regulation of signs in an effort to provide adequate means of expression and to
promote economic viability of the business community, while protecting the city
and its citizens from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location, and
character that would adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the community and
threaten the health, safety, and welfare of the community. The regulation of
the physical characteristics of signs within the city has had a positive impact
on traffic safety and the appearance of the community.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.091 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is not the purpose or intent of this subchapter to regulate the message
displayed on any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of this subchapter to
regulate any building design or any display not defined as a sign, or any sign
which cannot be viewed from outside a building. The purpose and intent of this
subchapter is to:
   (A)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination, and other
physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety, and welfare;
   (B)   To establish standards which permit property owners the opportunity to
identify and advertise themselves, goods, or services; to preserve and protect
the value of land, buildings, and landscapes, and promote the attractiveness of
the community; to ensure that signs in the city are not a safety hazard to
lives and/or property; to eliminate confusion in locating goods, services, and
facilities, and to preserve order and to encourage business to erect permanent
signs and discourage temporary and/or portable signs;
   (C)   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city's goals of public safety and aesthetics; and
   (D)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign regulations
set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.092 EFFECT.
   A sign may be erected, mounted, displayed, or maintained in the city if it
is in conformance with the provisions of this subchapter. The effect of this
subchapter, as more specifically set forth herein, is to:
   (A)   Allow a wide variety of sign types in commercial zones, and a more
limited variety of signs in other zones, subject to the standards set forth in
this subchapter;
   (B)   Allow certain small, unobtrusive signs incidental to the principal use
of a site in all zones when in compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter;
   (C)   Prohibit signs whose location, size, type, illumination, or other
physical characteristics negatively affect the environment and where the
communication can be accomplished by means having a lesser impact on the
environment and the public health, safety, and welfare; and
   (D)   Provide for the enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.093 DEFINITIONS.
   For purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A-FRAME SIGN. A moveable freestanding sign hinged at the top, or attached in
a way that forms a shape similar to the letter "A" when viewed from the side.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure that remains
without a message, or whose display surface remains blank for more than 6
consecutive months, or that pertains to a time, event, or purpose that no
longer applies. ABANDONED SIGNS are not legally established nonconforming
signs.
   ADDRESS SIGN. A sign communicating the street address and/or the name of the
occupant of a property.
   ALTERATION. Any major change to a sign excluding routine maintenance,
painting, or changing of copy of an existing sign.
   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of motion.
ANIMATED SIGNS include signs or devices motivated by natural environmental
input, signs powered by electric motors or other mechanically induced means,
and signs producing the illusion of movement by means of electronic,
electrical, or electromechanical input.
   AWNING. A roof like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass,
designed and intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative
embellishment, and which projects from a wall or a roof of a structure,
primarily over a window, door, or the like.
   AWNING SIGN. A sign displayed on or attached flat against the surface or
surfaces of an AWNING. AWNING SIGNS must meet the same sign area standards as
WALL and CANOPY SIGNS.
   BACK LIT. Illuminated by a non-visible light source consisting of non-
translucent lettering and where the only visible light is reflected off the
background creating a halo effect. In all cases, the primary source of light
must not be visible to the public.
   BALLOON. A flexible, non-porous bag inflated with either air or helium that
causes it to rise and float in the atmosphere which is greater than 24 inches
in diameter.
   BANNER. A temporary attention getting device which resembles a flag or
similar type of advertisement constructed of a strip of cloth, paper, or other
material supported either between poles or fastened to a building.
   BEACON. Any light with 1 or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at 1 or more points not on the same lot as the light source; also, any
light with 1 or more beams that rotate or move.
   BENCH SIGN. A sign which is affixed or painted to a bench, such as a bus
bench.
   BILLBOARD. A freestanding sign adjacent to the right-of-way of an
interstate.
   BUILDING ELEVATION. The entire side of a building, from average ground level
to the roofline, as viewed perpendicular to the walls on that side of the
building.
   BUILDING FACADE. That portion of any exterior elevation of a building
extending from grade to the top of the parapet wall or eaves and the entire
width of the building elevation.
   BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached or supported by any building, not parallel
to the building wall to which it's attached.
   CANOPY. A roof like structure projecting over a doorway or window, or a
multi-sided overhead structure supported by columns, but not enclosed by walls.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A
canopy sign is not a marquee and is different from a service area canopy sign.
   CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN. A sign with the capability of content change by
means of manual or remote input, including signs that are manually or
electrically activated without altering the face or the surface of the sign.
Often known as READER BOARD SIGNS, DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGNS, or electronic message
boards.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service, or entertainment.
   COPY. The wording and other display messages such as logos or symbols on a
sign.
   DECORATIVE DISPLAY/ELEMENT. Temporary balloons, streamers, pennants, and
pinwheels which do not include words or symbols.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign that is designed for the purpose of providing
direction for pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   DRIVE-THRU SIGN. A sign located in close proximity to a drive-thru lane
located on the subject site.
   DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN. See CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN.
   EGRESS. Exiting a piece of property or building.
   ELEVATION. The view of the side, front, or rear of a given structure(s).
   ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
affixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing, or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
   EXTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed upon the exterior of a building.
   EXTERNALLY ILLUMINATED. Characterized by the use of artificial light
reflecting off its surface.
   FACADE. The face of a building from the lowest exposed point to the roof.
   FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at 1 edge or no
more than 2 corners of the material, to a staff or pole, so as to allow
movement of the material by atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive
colors, patterns, symbols, emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices or
text. If any dimension of a flag is more than 3 times as long as any other
dimension, it shall be regulated as a banner for the purposes of this
subchapter.
   FLASHING SIGN. See ANIMATED SIGN.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign which has supporting framework that is placed
on, or anchored in, the ground and which is independent from any building or
any other structure.
   FRONTAGE. The length of the exterior building wall or structure oriented
toward the frontage road, or the dimension, in feet, of the parcel as measured
along the street of the business mailing address.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. A sign erected by a government body.
   GRADE. The final ground elevation after construction. Earth mounding for
landscaping, berming, and/or screening is not part of the final grade for sign
height computation.
   HEIGHT. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical distance
measured from the base of the sign at grade to the top of the highest attached
component of the sign.
   HEIGHT, MAXIMUM. The vertical distance measured from the average natural
grade of the ground within 1 foot of the perimeter of the base of the sign or
the center line of the adjacent road (whichever is higher), to the top of the
sign.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. A sign that is erected without first complying with all city
ordinances and regulations in effect at the time of its construction and
erection or use. Abandoned signs and unsafe signs are also illegal signs.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign that contains an element designated to emanate
artificial light internally or externally.
   INGRESS. Entering into a piece of property or building.
   INTERIOR SIGN. Any sign placed within a building, but not including WINDOW
SIGNS.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGN. Illuminated by a light source, either
incandescent, fluorescent, neon, or other light that is enclosed by the sign
panel(s) or within the sign.
   LEGALLY ESTABLISHED NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign and its support structure
lawfully erected prior to the effective date of this subchapter which fails to
conform to the requirements of this subchapter. A sign which was erected in
accordance with a variance granted prior to the adoption of this subchapter and
which does not comply with this subchapter shall be deemed to be a legal
nonconforming sign. A sign which was unlawfully erected shall be deemed to be
an ILLEGAL SIGN.
   LOT. The entire parcel of land serving as the site of a principal use, and
containing all principal and accessory buildings, structures or uses. For
purposes of this subchapter, individual property designations such as tax
parcel, platted lot, or metes and bounds descriptions shall not define the
boundaries of each lot. If any portion of a use or structure used to identify
the amount or type of regulation under this subchapter occupies a tax parcel,
platted lot, or metes and bounds description, the entire tax parcel, platted
lot, or metes and bounds described property shall be included in the LOT.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of that building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MONUMENT SIGN. Any freestanding sign with its sign face mounted on the
ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign and which has a
maximum height of 10 feet. The base of a monument shall not be calculated as
part of the total sign area if designed and constructed of materials
complementary and consistent with the building architecture.
   OBSOLETE SIGN. On-premise sign that no longer advertises or identifies a use
conducted on the property on which the sign is erected.
   OFFICIAL NOTICES. Official notices posted by public officers, employees, or
their agents in the performance of their duties, or as directed by such
officers, employees, or agents.
   OWNER. In the case of a lot, the legal owner of the lot as officially
recorded by Chisago County, and including fee owners, contract for deed
purchasers, and ground lessees. In the case of a sign, the owner of the sign
including any lessees. An owner of a lot shall be ultimately responsible for
compliance with this subchapter for any signs erected on its property.
   PARAPET. That portion of a building wall that rises above the roof level.
   PENNANT. See BANNER.
   PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign that is not temporary.
   POLE SIGN. See PYLON SIGN.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign which is manifestly designed to be transported,
including by trailer or on its own wheels, even though the wheels of such sign
may be removed and the remaining chassis or support is converted to another
sign or attached temporarily or permanently to the ground since this
characteristic is based on the design of such sign.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The building in which the principal use of the property
occurs. Buildings with multiple principal uses shall not constitute multiple
principal buildings (for example, 3 separate uses in a building is equal to 1
building). Storage buildings, garages, and other clearly accessory buildings
shall not be considered principal buildings.
   PROPERTY. Any lot or parcel of land which has been legally created and has
been assigned a separate parcel identification number.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire right-of-way of any public roadway and/or
sidewalk. Also includes any publicly owned or operated property.
   READER BOARD SIGN. See CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Any district zoned for residential uses.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A piece of land or real estate, consisting of 1 or
more lots or parcels, where a residential dwelling and its associated accessory
buildings or structures are located.
   ROADWAY. Any street, road, highway, cartway, or alley, whether publicly or
privately maintained. Roadway does not include driveways or parking lots.
   ROOF. The exterior surface and its supporting structure on the top of a
building or structure, the structural makeup of which conforms to the roof
structures, roof construction, and roof covering sections of the Uniform
Building Code.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a peaked roof, or, in the case of an extended
facade or parapet, the uppermost point of the facade or parapet.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and above the roof of
a building, supported by the roof structure, and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   SECURITY SIGN. A sign identifying the presence of a security system.
   SIDEWALK. Any public or quasi-public pedestrian walkway.
   SIGN. Any letter, word or symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading matter,
or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message, or
visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed, or
constructed, including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires, and
structures, which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes and
intended to be viewed by the public.
   SIGN AREA. The area of the board(s) or module(s) containing the sign
message, but not including the supporting structure. The area to be calculated
is the area within the smallest rectilinear perimeter that contains the entire
signboard or module. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the area of a
circle.
   SIGN FACE. The surface of sign upon, against, or through which the message
of the sign is exhibited.
   SIGN STRUCTURE. Any structure including the supports, uprights, bracing, and
framework which supports or is capable of supporting any sign.
   SITE. A lot or combination of contiguous lots which are intended,
designated, and/or approved to function as 1 integrated unit.
   STREET FRONTAGE. The proximity of a parcel of land to 1 or more streets. An
interior lot has 1 street frontage, and a corner lot has 2 frontages.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign with words or symbols which is erected or displayed
for a limited period of time, including signs affixed or attached to vehicles,
including trailers, and capable of being readily removed such as fliers,
BANNERS, inflatable signs, A-FRAME SIGNS, or flying signs.
   TENANT SPACE. A tenant space is considered to be a business area that has
its own exclusive interior or exterior entrance within a multiple-occupancy
development.
   TOTAL SITE SIGNAGE. The maximum permitted combined area of all freestanding
and wall identification signs allowed on a specific property.
   UNSAFE SIGN. Any sign that is out of order, in disrepair, rotten, hazardous,
or in any other manner unsafe.
   VISIBLE. Capable of being seen by a person of normal visual acuity (whether
legible or not) without visual aid.
   WALL. Any structure which defines the exterior boundaries or courts of a
building or structure and which has a slope of 60 degrees or greater with the
horizontal plane.
   WALL SIGN. Any building sign attached parallel to, but within 2 feet of a
wall, painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits
of an outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such
wall or building, and which displays only 1 sign surface.
   WINDOW. A panel of glass installed into an opening in a wall or roof; 1
opening equals 1 window even if it appears to be multiple windows by framing
separators.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to, or inside of, a window in view of the
general public. This does not include merchandise on display or business hours.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.094 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permanent sign permit application. Unless exempted under §
153.095, all persons seeking to place a sign within the city limits and as
regulated by the terms of this subchapter shall obtain a permit and pay the fee
as set forth in the city's fee schedule at §
153.097. The content of the message or speech displayed on the sign shall not
be reviewed or considered in determining whether to approve or deny a sign
permit. The applicant shall first file an application in writing with the City
Clerk. Every such application shall include:
      (1)   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of the applicant, owner of the
sign and lot, and the contact person from the firm erecting the signage;
      (2)   The address at which any signs are to be erected;
      (3)   The legal description of the property to which the application
applies;
      (4)   The street on which any signs are to front;
      (5)   A complete set of plans showing the necessary elevations,
distances, size, location on lot and/or on building, all existing signage on
the premises, and details to fully and clearly represent the proposed sign
request, to include a landscape plan;
      (6)   Identify and describe the work completely, including size, height,
location, materials, true colors, and lighting to be used. All applications
must include color samples for review. Color rendition and intensity of
lighting shall also be indicated;
      (7)   Be accompanied by a site plan with dimensions and specifications
sufficient to determine consistency with this and other applicable laws and
ordinances;
      (8)   Be signed by the applicant or authorized agent;
      (9)   Provide such other information as may reasonably be required by the
city;
      (10)   A photo quality color rendering of all proposed signage showing
its dimensions and describing materials, lettering, colors, illumination, and
support structure;
      (11)   The cost of the sign;
      (12)   The type of sign (for example, wall sign and the like);
      (13)   Certification by applicant indicating the application complies
with all requirements of this subchapter;
      (14)   If the proposed sign is along a state trunk highway or interstate
highway, the application shall be accompanied by proof that the applicant has
obtained a permit from the state for the sign;
      (15)   All freestanding signs over 7 feet in height must submit
construction plans prepared by a design professional licensed in Minnesota that
comply with the requirements of the Minnesota State Building Code;
      (16)   Underwriter Laboratories label or inspection label, if an
electrical sign;
      (17)   If requested, engineering data showing the structure is designed
to accommodate dead load and wind pressure, in any direction;
      (18)   Be accompanied by a fee as established by this code; and
      (19)   Where signs may be integral with architecture, additional design
requirements may be addressed in related sections of this code.
   (B)   Permanent sign permit review. The application shall be reviewed by the
City Building Official to check compliance with the laws and ordinances under
the city's jurisdiction. If the proposed sign is subject to the review and
approval of the Planning Commission, and the sign permit application is found
to be complete, the City Building Official shall add the sign permit request to
the next Planning Commission agenda for review. The following defines the
required permit approval process.
      (1)   All permanent sign permit applications shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Expiration of permit. Every permit issued by the city under the
provisions of this subchapter shall become null and void if the sign or work
authorized by such permit is not completed within 1 year from the date the
permit is issued. The permit holder may request an extension in writing
received by the city within 1 year of issuance of the permit. The City Council
shall have the sole discretion to grant extensions for good cause shown.
      (3)   Right to appeal. Any applicant who files an application for a
permit and is denied shall have the right to an appeal under §
153.187.
      (4)   Sign removal. Any signs constructed in the city without a permit
shall constitute a public nuisance and shall be removed by and at the expense
of the owner(s) of the sign. If the owner does not remove such sign(s) within
10 business days of receiving notice of noncompliance for failure to obtain a
permit, the City Building Official may seek injunctive relief through a motion
for summary enforcement, or obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant
for removal of the sign in question. The city shall be entitled to
reimbursement of all costs incurred by the city in removing and storing the
sign. The city may hold a public or private sale of the sign and equipment
supporting the sign at any time or place and on terms that are commercially
reasonable, after notifying all persons known to claim an interest in the sign
or equipment. In addition, the city may seek collection of all city costs
incurred against the owner of the sign in any manner allowed by law.
   (C)   Temporary sign permit requirements. Temporary signs shall conform to
the following conditions.
      (1)   The sign may be posted for a maximum of 30 days.
      (2)   Only 1 temporary sign allowed per business at a time.
      (3)   The sign must not be torn, tattered, or faded.
      (4)   The size of the sign may not exceed 48 square feet.
      (5)   Annual license(s) must have been obtained for posting temporary
signs for a calendar year.
   (D)   Temporary sign permit application. Unless exempted under §
153.095, all persons seeking to place a temporary sign within the city limits
and as regulated by the terms of this subchapter shall obtain an annual permit
and pay the fee as set forth in the city's fee schedule at §
153.097. The content of the message or speech displayed on the sign shall not
be reviewed or considered in determining whether to approve or deny a sign
permit. The applicant shall first file an application in writing with the City
Clerk. Every such application shall include:
      (1)   Names, addresses, and phone numbers of the owner of the sign;
      (2)   The address at which any signs are to be erected;
      (3)   The street on which any signs are to front;
      (4)   A certification by applicant indicating the application complies
with all requirements of this subchapter; and
      (5)   If requested, an applicant shall provide:
         (a)   Permission from the property owner(s) to erect the sign; and
         (b)   Evidence the sign has received any required permits for county
or state highways.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.095 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following signs shall be exempt from the provisions of this
subchapter, except they must meet the general provisions under §
153.101 and this section.
      (1)   Official notices authorized by a court, public body, or public
safety official.
      (2)   Interior window signs in business and industrial districts, subject
to the following limitations:
         (a)   No more than 1/2 of any individual window is covered with signs
or painting; and
         (b)   Window signs shall not be counted against the sign area
permitted for other sign types.
      (3)   Interior signs.
      (4)   Directional, warning, or informational signs authorized by federal,
state, or municipal governments, provided they do not exceed 48 square feet.
      (5)   Pedestrian, vehicular traffic, and parking directional signs in
parking lots or on buildings, provided such signs are no more than 8 square
feet in area and 6 feet in height. For a parcel, a maximum of 1 such sign shall
be allowed at each access/egress point of a development. No advertising message
of any kind is allowed on these signs.
      (6)   Memorial tablets, names of buildings, and date of erection, when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or other
incombustible material.
      (7)   Headstones, gravestones, grave markers, or other similar signs
attached to, or adjacent to, a burial plot, columbarium, mausoleum, or the
like.
      (8)   Flags, subject to the following (any individual flag in excess of
these amounts shall be regulated as a sign):
         (a)   Public, Commercial, and Industrial zoned properties: 150 square
feet; and
         (b)   Residential zoned properties: 40 square feet.
      (9)   Awnings without printing, with the exception of street address
number (number only), are considered an architectural feature and are not
regulated by this section.
      (10)   Canopies without printing, with the exception of a street address
number (number only), are considered an architectural feature and are not
regulated by this section.
      (11)   Street address signs, and combination nameplate and street address
signs which contain no advertising copy and which do not exceed 6 square feet
in area.
      (12)   Temporary signs, not more than 4 square feet and in place no
longer than 4 days per event. These may not be placed on public rights-of-way
or attached to trees or utility poles. The city shall have the right to remove
and dispose of signs not conforming to this division.
      (13)   Bulletin boards.
      (14)   Signs denoting the architect, engineer, or contractor working upon
a work site and real estate signs pertaining to the sale, development, or
rental of the property. Such signs shall be removed within 10 days after
completion of construction or the sale, lease, or development of 90% of the
property. No more than 2 such signs will be allowed at 1 time. The total area
of all such signs on a property shall not exceed 48 square feet.
      (15)   Government signs in all districts.
      (16)   Signs that are not visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or
parcel upon which they are located.
      (17)   Security signs.
      (18)   Signs required by law.
      (19)   Signs which are integrally attached to or part of:
         (a)   Waste roll-offs, dumpsters, garbage cans, vending or dispensing
machines, portable storage units, or other similar equipment owned and
maintained by a commercial business for the purpose of waste collection or
temporary storage;
         (b)   Personal property or motor vehicles such as, but not limited to,
passenger vehicles, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, trucks, semi-tractors
and trailers, recreational vehicles, fish houses, boats, boat lifts, and
trailers; and
         (c)   Construction materials or equipment.
      (20)   Any sign attached to, or placed on, a vehicle or trailer parked on
public or private property, except for signs meeting the following conditions:
         (a)   The primary purpose of such vehicle or trailer is not the
display of signs;
         (b)   The signs are magnetic, decals, or painted upon an integral part
of the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do
not break the silhouette of the vehicle; and
         (c)   The vehicle or trailer is in operating condition, currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and
actively used in the daily function of the business to which such signs relate.
      (21)   Decorative display and/or elements.
   (B)   No exempt sign may be illuminated, except for the following:
      (1)   Uplighting of official federal, state, county, or city flags; and
      (2)   Lighting of official federal, state, county, or city government
signs as need by the government body.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.096 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are unauthorized signs and are prohibited by this
subchapter.
   (A)   Any sign, signal, marking, or device which purports to be, or is, an
imitation of or resembles any official traffic control device, railroad sign or
signal, or emergency vehicle signal.
   (B)   Signs in public rights-of-way. Signs erected or temporarily placed
within any street right-of-way, upon public lands or easements, or other public
right-of-ways, except as this subchapter specifically provides, or as subject
to a license or franchise of the city. The city may allow signs or decorations
on, over, or within the right-of-way for a specified period of time, in its
discretion.
   (C)   Signs obstructing ingress or egress. A sign or sign structure erected
or maintained that prevents free ingress or egress from any door, window, fire
escape, stairway, or other opening.
   (D)   Fire escapes. A sign or sign structure attached to a standpipe or fire
escape.
   (E)   Abandoned signs. Such signs shall be removed within 30 days after
written notice from the city.
   (F)   Traffic obstruction. Any sign that obstructs the vision of drivers or
pedestrians, or detracts from the visibility of any official traffic control
device.
   (G)   Flashing and moving signs. Except where specifically permitted, any
sign displaying any moving parts, rotating, illuminated with any flashing or
intermittent lights, or any animated sign. Clocks and barber poles are exempt
from this provision.
   (H)   Temporary or portable signs, except as permitted by a temporary sign
permit.
   (I)   Signs on rocks, trees, fences, or public structures. Signs painted,
attached, or in any other manner affixed to trees, rocks, or similar natural
surfaces, or on street/traffic signs, utility poles, bridges, towers, or
similar public structures.
   (J)   Bench signs or signs affixed to amenities such as trash receptacles
and the like, located in the public right-of-way, unless approved by the city.
   (K)   Illuminated signs in which light is directed onto adjacent property or
public streets. Search lights and beacons, and all methods of attracting
attention by directing light radiation away from a sign surface, are also
prohibited, except where specifically permitted.
   (L)   Any sign which becomes structurally unsafe or endangers the safety of
a building or premises or endangers the public safety, must be taken down and
removed by the owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure, or land upon which the sign is located.
   (M)   Signs located in such a manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere
with an official traffic sign, signal, or device, or obstruct or interfere with
a driver's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
   (N)   Except as provided for elsewhere in this subchapter, private signs
encroaching upon or overhanging public right-of-way. No sign shall be attached
to any utility pole, light standard, street tree, or any other public facility
located within the public right-of-way.
   (O)   Signs that blink, flash, or are animated by lighting in any fashion
that would cause such signs to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and
lights, or municipal vehicle warnings visible from the roadway.
   (P)   Portable signs except as allowed for temporary signs.
   (Q)   Inflatable or flying devices such as, but not limited to, balloons,
streamers, or pinwheels, except those that are permitted temporary signs.
   (R)   Signs that are structurally unsafe or in disrepair or which create a
hazard by their condition, location, or lighting.
   (S)   Permanent signs or placards of any size attached or added to any sign
beyond that included in the application and permit.
   (T)   Animated signs as defined in this subchapter, except flashing signs
primarily giving time, date, temperature, weather conditions, or similar public
information.
   (U)   Roof signs extending above the peak of the roof.
   (V)   Exterior neon signs.
   (W)   A sign that violates any provision of any law of the state.
   (X)   Audio components are prohibited on any sign, with the exception of
those utilized for the visually impaired and for 2-way communication.
   (Y)   Any form of pyrotechnics is prohibited.
   (Z)   Any sign which is obscene, as defined by M.S. § 617.241, Subd. 1(a)
shall be considered a public nuisance and is prohibited.
   (AA)   Any sign which emits an audible sound, odor, or visible matter shall
be considered a public nuisance and is prohibited.
   (BB)   Any sign that is torn, tattered, or faded, including temporary signs.
   (CC)   No new billboards will be allowed in the city.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-9-3, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.097 FEES.
   (A)   Sign permit fees are set forth in
Chapter 34 of this code.
   (B)   Where work for which a permit is required by this subchapter is
started or proceeded prior to obtaining a permit, the fee as provided by the
City Council shall be doubled. Payment of such double fee shall neither relieve
any persons from fully complying with the requirements of this subchapter in
the execution of the work, nor from any other penalties prescribed herein.
   (C)   The city may assign a fee per sign for persons wishing to retrieve
signs removed by city personnel as identified in the fee schedule.
   (D)   The city may also charge the costs of removal to the individual or
enterprise responsible or property owner.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.098 REPAIRS.
   (A)   All signs must be maintained in a safe, neat, and orderly condition
and appearance, and must be repainted or otherwise maintained by the property
owner to prevent corrosion or deterioration caused by the weather, age, or any
other condition.
   (B)   All signs must be maintained to prevent any kind of safety hazard,
including faulty sign structures, a fire hazard, or an electrical shock hazard.
   (C)   All unused sign hardware or wiring that is visible from the right-of-
way must be removed.
   (D)   The owner, lessee, or manager of any sign that contacts the ground and
the owner of the land on which the same is located shall keep grass, weeds, and
other growth cut and shall remove all debris and rubbish from the area beneath
the sign.
   (E)   No matter shall be permitted to hang loose from any sign. It shall be
the duty of every person maintaining a sign to keep and preserve the lot or
parcel of land on which such sign is erected at all times clean, inoffensive,
and free and clear of any garbage, refuse weeds, rubbish, paper, or other
offensive material of any kind and description, which may be deposited or
gathered thereon and to keep the same removed at all times for a space equal to
20 feet from any portion of such sign.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.099 REMOVAL.
   Signs which may be or may hereafter become rotted, unsafe, or unsightly
shall be repaired or removed by the owner or lessee of the property upon which
the sign stands upon reasonable notice (30 days) by the city. The owner,
lessee, or manager of any sign that contacts the ground and the owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass, weeds, and other growth
cut, and shall remove all debris and rubbish from the area beneath the sign. If
the owner, lessee, or manager of the property fails to act in accordance with
this section, such failure to act shall constitute a public nuisance, and the
city may seek injunctive relief through a motion for summary enforcement, or
obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant for removal of the sign in
question. All costs incurred for removal may be charged to the owner of the
sign and/or property owner and if unpaid, certified to the Chisago County
Auditor as a lien against the property on which the sign was located.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.100 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any sign legally existing at the time of the passage of this subchapter that
does not conform in use, location, height, or size with the regulations of the
zone in which such sign is located shall be considered a legal nonconforming
use or structure and may continue in such status until such time as it is
either abandoned or removed by its owner, subject to the following limitations.
   (A)   Signs are to be brought into conformance when reconstructed after
being damaged or destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of
estimated market value and no building permit has been applied for within 180
days, or when replaced or relocated.
   (B)   For signs, structural alterations, maintenance, and improvements are
permissible only where such alterations, maintenance, and improvements will not
increase the degree of nonconformity of the signs.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.101 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   All signs constructed, erected, modified, or altered must comply with the
provisions of this section and the requirements of this code.
   (A)   Construction standards. All signs  shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained in accordance with the following standards.
      (1)   Signs shall be consistent and harmonious with the architectural
style of the subject and surrounding properties.
      (2)   The size and style of graphics, its scale, proportion, design,
material, and texture as well as the size and style of the letters shall relate
to the building to which it refers and/or is attached and with the property and
the district that surrounds it.
      (3)   The architecture of the building should allow for specific
locations for signs , and signage should be limited to those areas.
      (4)   Signs should be an integral part of the design of storefront
alterations and new constructions. Signs should not obscure architectural
elements of structures.
      (5)   The design and alignment of signs on multiple use buildings shall
be coordinated so as to achieve a unified appearance.
      (6)   All signs shall comply with applicable provisions of any applicable
Building Code and Electrical Code. Freestanding signs are considered structures
and shall meet requirements of the Building Code, including inspection by the
Building Inspector.
      (7)   Unless otherwise noted all signs shall be constructed of permanent
materials and shall be permanently attached. Signs constructed with high-
quality, natural materials, such as stone, glass, wood, brick, and similar
materials are preferred.
      (8)   Painting, repainting, cleaning, and normal maintenance and repair
of a sign or sign structure is required to protect the sign and prevent its
deterioration and maintain its neat appearance. Such maintenance is allowed
without permit unless a structural change is made.
      (9)   Supports and braces must be designed as an integral part of the
overall sign design and hidden from public view to the extent technically
feasible.
      (10)   All signs attached to a building must be installed and maintained
so that wall penetrations are watertight and the structure does not exceed
allowable stresses of supporting materials.
      (11)   Glass forming any part of a sign must be safety glass.
      (12)   All letters, figures, characters, or representations in cut-out or
irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to, or superimposed
upon any sign must be safely and securely built into or attached to the sign
structure .
      (13)   Glare. In all zoning districts, any lighting shall be arranged so
as not to shine directly on any adjoining property . A person shall not conduct
a use that has a source of illumination that produces glare clearly visible
beyond a property  line or creates a sensation of brightness within a visual
field so as to cause annoyance, discomfort, or impairment of vision. The use of
lenses, deflectors, shields, louvers, or prismatic control devices shall be
used to eliminate nuisance and hazardous lighting to facilitate compliance with
this requirement.
   (B)   Sign  dimension measurement methodology.
      (1)   Description of zoning districts.
Abbreviation    District name
Abbreviation    District name
R1           Single Family Residential District
R2           One and Two Family Residential District
R-3A         Multiple Family Residential - Townhomes District
R-3B         Multiple Family Residential - Apartments District
R-M          Manufactured Home Park District
CBD          Central Business District
GB           General Business District
LI           Light Industrial District
I            Industrial District
SL           Shoreland District
PUD          Planned Unit Development
A            Agriculture District
P            Park District
OS           Open Space District
NRP          Natural Resource Preservation
RR-A         Rural Residential - Agriculture
RR-I         Rural Residential - I
RR-II        Rural Residential - II
RTC          Rural Transit Center
SRO          Sunrise Overlay District
CAO          Carlos Avery Overlay District
RBO          Rural Business Overlay
 
      (2)   Signs allowed by district.
 
District    Sign  description                                                     Maximum Conditions
                                                                                  size
            Changeable message sign . A sign with the capability of content               Only non-
            change by means of manual or remote input, including signs  that are  32      residential
            manually or electrically activated without altering the face or the   square  uses (i.e.,
            surface of the sign . Often known as reader board signs , dynamic     feet    churches,
            display signs , or electronic message boards.                                 schools,
                                                                                          etc.)
            Monument sign . Any freestanding sign  with its sign face  mounted on         Only non-
Residential the ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign  and     36      residential
Districts   which has a maximum height  of 10 feet. The base of a monument shall  square  uses (i.e.,
- R1, R2,   not be calculated as part of the total sign area  if designed and     feet    churches,
R-3A, R-3B, constructed of materials complementary and consistent with the                schools,
R-M, RR-I,  building architecture.                                                        etc.)
RR-II, and  Temporary sign . Any sign  with words or symbols which is erected or
PUD         displayed for a limited period of time, including signs  affixed or   48
            attached to vehicles, including trailers, and capable of being        square   
            readily removed such as fliers, banners, inflatable signs , A-frame   feet
            signs , or flying signs .
            Window sign . A sign  affixed to or inside of a window  in view of    35% of  Only one
            the general public. This does not include merchandise on display or   one     window sign
            business hours.                                                       window  per
                                                                                          property
 
District Sign description Maximum size Conditions
District   Sign description                                                               Maximum  Conditions
                                                                                          size
                                                                                                   Not on
                                                                                          6 square sidewalk
           A-frame sign. A moveable freestanding sign  hinged at the top, or attached in  feet     Displayed
           a way that forms a shape similar to the letter “A” when viewed from the sideach     during
                                                                                          side     daylight
                                                                                                   business
                                                                                                   hours only
           Adult use signage                                                              See §   See §
                                                                                          153.105  153.105
                                                                                          80% of
           Awning sign . A sign  displayed on or attached flat against the surface or     total
           surfaces of an awning. Awning signs  must meet the same sign area  standards   size of   
           as wall  and canopy signs .                                                    the
                                                                                          awning
                                                                                                   The bottom
                                                                                                   of the
                                                                                          10       sign is at
           Building sign . Any sign  attached or supported by any building, not parallel  square   least 7
           to the building wall  in which its attached.                                   feet     feet from
                                                                                                   the
                                                                                                   walking
                                                                                                   surface
           Canopy sign . Any sign  that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of       80% of
           fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A     total
           canopy sign  is not a marquee  and is different from service area canopy signs size of   
           .                                                                              the
                                                                                          canopy
Commercial Changeable message sign . A sign  with the capability of content change by
Districts  means of manual or remote input, including signs  that are manually or         32
- CBD,     electrically activated without altering the face or the surface of the sign .  square    
RTC, and   Often known as reader board signs , dynamic display signs , or electronic      feet
GB         message boards.
Industrial Drive-thru sign . A sign  located in close proximity to a drive-thru lane      72       One per
Districts  located on the subject site .                                                  square   drive-thru
- LI and I                                                                                feet     lane
                                                                                                   CBD and GB
                                                                                                   - the
                                                                                                   maximum
           Freestanding sign . Any sign  which has supporting framework that is placed    80       height may
           on, or anchored in the ground and which is independent from any building or    square   not exceed
           any other structure.                                                           feet     the height
                                                                                                   of
                                                                                                   adjacent
                                                                                                   street
                                                                                                   lighting
           Monument sign . Any freestanding sign  with its sign face  mounted on the
           ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign  and which has a      80
           maximum height  of 10 feet. The base of a monument shall not be calculated as  square    
           part of the total sign area  if designed and constructed of materials          feet
           complementary and consistent with the building architecture.
           Temporary sign . Any sign  with words or symbols which is erected or displayed48
           for a limited period of time, including signs  affixed or attached to          square    
           vehicles, including trailers, and capable of being readily removed such as     feet
           filers, banners , inflatable signs , A-frame signs , or flying signs .
           Wall sign . Any building sign  attached parallel to, but within 2 feet of a    40% of
           wall , painted on the wall  surface of, or erected and confined within the     the face  
           limits of an outside wall  of any building or structure, which is supported by of the
           such wall  or building, and which displays only 1 sign  surface.               building
                                                                                          50% of
           Window sign . A sign  affixed to or inside of a window  in view of the general the size  
           public. This does not include merchandise on display or business hours.        of the
                                                                                          window .
 
 
District Sign description                                                      Maximum  Conditions
                                                                               size
                                                                               80% of
                                                                               the
                                                                               fence
         Ballfield. Signs  placed on ballfield fencing.                       section   
                                                                               on which
                                                                               the sign
                                                                               is
                                                                               affixed
                                                                               The
                                                                               maximum
                                                                               height
                                                                               may not
         Freestanding sign . Any sign  which has supporting framework that is  exceed
         placed on, or anchored in the ground and which is independent from    the       
         any building or any other structure.                                  height
                                                                               of
                                                                               adjacent
Parks                                                                          street
and Open                                                                       lighting
Space -  Monument sign . Any freestanding sign  with its sign face  mounted on
P and OS the ground or mounted on a base at least as wide as the sign  and     36
         which has a maximum height  of 10 feet. The base of a monument shall  square    
         not be calculated as part of the total sign area  if designed and     feet
         constructed of materials complementary and consistent with the
         building architecture.
         Temporary sign . Any sign  with words or symbols which is erected or
         displayed for a limited period of time, including signs  affixed or   48
         attached to vehicles, including trailers, and capable of being        square    
         readily removed such as filers, banners , inflatable signs , A-frame  feet
         signs , or flying signs .
         Wall sign . Any building sign  attached parallel to, but within 2     40% of
         feet of a wall , painted on the wall  surface of, or erected and      the face
         confined within the limits of an outside wall  of any building or     of the    
         structure, which is supported by such wall  or building, and which    building
         displays only 1 sign  surface.
         Window sign . A sign  affixed to or inside of a window  in view of    50% of
         the general public. This does not include merchandise on display or   the size  
         business hours.                                                       of the
                                                                               window
 
 
District              Sign description        Maximum size           Conditions
                      Monument sign . Any
                      freestanding sign  with
                      its sign face  mounted
                      on the ground or
                      mounted on a base at
                      least as wide as the
                      sign  and which has a
Agricultural - A and  maximum height  of 10
RR-A                  feet. The base of a     36 square feet          
                      monument shall not be
                      calculated as part of
                      the total sign area  if
                      designed and
                      constructed of
                      materials complementary
                      and consistent with the
                      building architecture.
                      Temporary sign . Any
                      sign  with words or
                      symbols which is
                      erected or displayed
                      for a limited period of
                      time, including signs
                      affixed or attached to  48 square feet          
                      vehicles, including
                      trailers, and capable
                      of being readily
                      removed such as filers,
                      banners, inflatable
                      signs , A-frame signs ,
                      or flying signs .
                      Wall sign . Any
                      building sign  attached
                      parallel to, but within
                      2 feet of a wall ,
                      painted on the wall
                      surface of, or erected
                      and confined within the 40% of the face of the  
                      limits of an outside    building
                      wall  of any building
                      or structure, which is
                      supported by such wall
                      or building, and which
                      displays only 1 sign
                      surface.
                      No signs . No signs
                      shall be permitted
                      within the Natural
                      Resource Preservation
                      District, except for
                      signs  erected by the
Natural Resource      federal, state, county,                        
Preservation District or city governments for
                      transportation and
                      safety purposes and
                      signs erected or
                      authorized by the
                      Minnesota Department of
                      Natural Resources.
 
   (C)   Total site signage . The total permanent signage allowed per property
is 7% of the total building footprint in square feet or 500 square feet total
whichever is less.
   (D)   General measurement of sign area . Sign area  is measured as follows.
      (1)    For signs on a background, the entire area of the framework or
background of the sign is calculated as sign area , including any material or
color forming the sign face or background used to differentiate the sign from
the structure against which it is placed. Sign area does not include any
supports or bracing, unless such framework or bracing is part of the message or
sign face .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1877.png]
 
      (2)    For signs consisting of freestanding letters or logos, the sign
area is calculated as the total area of each square, circle, rectangle, or
triangle, or combination thereof, that encompasses each individual letter or
logo. Sign area does not include any supporting framework or bracing, unless
such framework or bracing is part of the message or sign face .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1879.png]
 
      (3)    For awning and canopy signs , the sign area is the printed area of
the awning or canopy , calculated as the total area of each square, circle,
rectangle, or triangle, or combination thereof, that encompasses each
individual letter or logo.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1881.png]
 
      (4)    Window signs printed on a transparent film and affixed to the
interior or exterior of a windowpane are calculated as individual letters or
logos, provided that the portion of the transparent film around the perimeter
of the individual letters or logos maintains 100% transparency of the window .
Transparency is defined as both the ability to view into the interior of the
establishment from the outside and to view the outside from the interior of the
establishment through the same area.
      (5)   The sign area of a three-dimensional, free-form, or sculptural
(non-planar) sign is calculated as 50% of the sum of the area of the 4 vertical
sides of the smallest cube that will encompass the sign .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1883.png]
 
      (6)    If a sign has 2 or more faces, the area of all faces is included
in determining the area of the sign , unless the 2 sign faces are placed back-
to-back and are no more than 2 feet apart. In such case, the sign area is
calculated as the area of 1 face. If the 2 faces are unequal in area, the area
of the larger face is used to calculate sign area .
      (7)    Necessary supports or uprights on which the sign is erected are
not included in the sign area computation.
      (8)   Computation of sign face area. The area of a sign face  enclosed in
a frame or cabinet shall be determined on the basis of the outer dimensions of
the frame or cabinet surrounding the sign face . Where the frame or cabinet is
not in the shape of a rectangle, square, triangle, or circle, the sign face
area shall be determined by calculating the area of an imaginary rectangle
drawn around the frame or cabinet.
      (9)   Back-to-back signs . When the faces of a back-to-back sign  are
parallel or within 35 degrees of parallel, the sign face  area shall be
determined on the basis of only 1 side of such sign . If the sign faces  are
not within 35 degrees of parallel, the sign face  area shall be determined on
the basis of the sum of the areas of each sign face .
      (10)   Multiple-framed signs . For freestanding and projecting signs
that contain multiple frames on a single structure and oriented in the same
direction, the sign face  area shall be determined on the basis of the sum of
the areas of each cabinet.
      (11)   Individual elements. When signs  are constructed of individual
elements (for example, letters and logos) attached to a building or wall , the
sign face  area shall be determined by calculating the area of an imaginary
rectangle drawn around the sign  elements.
   (E)   General measurement of sign  height .
      (1)   Pole sign  height is measured from the grade to the uppermost point
of the sign. Grade is established by the elevation of the back of curb or, if
no curb exists, from the edge of pavement at the center of the abutting street
frontage where the sign will be erected. The pole sign  height may also be
measured from the natural slope of the lot where the sign will be erected.
      (2)   Monument sign  height is measured from the existing lowest point of
the ground where the monument sign is to be installed to the uppermost point of
a sign .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1885.png]
   (F)   Required landscaping. All freestanding signs  must be landscaped at
the base of the sign  in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Freestanding signs must be landscaped with small shrubs and
perennials a minimum of 18 inches in height at planting, spaced appropriately
based on mature height , and spread to provide continuous screening of the sign
base once the shrubs have reached maturity. The remainder of the landscape area
must be planted with perennials, turf, or other live ground-cover.
      (2)   Landscape must extend a minimum of 2 feet from the sign base on all
sides. All landscaping must be maintained in good condition, and free and clear
of rubbish and weeds. Landscape around the base of a sign is included in the
total amount of landscape required on a site , if applicable.
      (3)    Landscaping scaled to size of sign . Landscape may be trimmed and
maintained along the sign  base to maintain visibility of the sign face .
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1887.png]
 
   (G)     Illumination standards. Except where otherwise stated in this
subchapter, signs  may be illuminated by artificial light sources.
      (1)    Only business signs on the premises may be lighted. Signs shall
not be erected or maintained which are not effectively shielded so as to
prevent:
         (a)   Beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the
traveled way of any street or highway;
         (b)   Beams of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare, impair
the vision of the operator of any motor vehicle, or be confused with vehicle
lights; and
         (c)   Beams or rays of light that cause negative impacts on adjacent
properties.
      (2)   The sign face of internally illuminated signs must function as a
filter to diffuse illumination. The sign face must cover all internal
illumination components so that no exposed bulbs are visible .
      (3)   The use of neon lighting as a sign material or sign accent is
permitted for signs within the CB, GB, LI, and I zoning districts, with the
exception of the AG, RR, R1, R2, R-3A, R-M, SL and WMA districts where it is
prohibited. Neon lighting is subject to the following conditions.
         (a)   When lit, neon lighting must be continuously illuminated.
Flashing neon is prohibited.
         (b)   Neon lighting cannot be combined with any reflective materials
(for example, mirrors, polished metal, highly-glazed tiles, or other similar
materials) that would cause glare and increase the spread of light.
         (c)   Neon lighting to outline doors and/or windows is prohibited.
      (4)   The use of LED lighting as a sign accent is permitted, subject to
the following.
         (a)   LED lighting as an accent is only permitted for non-residential
uses in the CB, GB, LI, and I districts. LED accent lighting is prohibited in
any residential district .
         (b)   LED lighting as an accent must comply with all illumination
requirements of a changeable message center sign .
         (c)   When lit, LED lighting must be continuously illuminated.
Flashing LED is prohibited.
         (d)   LED lighting cannot be combined with any reflective materials
(for example, mirrors, polished metal, highly-glazed tiles, or other similar
materials) that would cause glare and increase the spread of light.
         (e)   LED lighting to billboards , freestanding monument signs ,
outline doors, windows, any part of a structure and automobile and filing
station gas canopies is prohibited.
         (f)   LED lighting to outline free standing pole signs is allowed but
lighting must conform to the same brightness standards as changeable message
centers as identified in §
153.104(D)(8).
      (5)   The proposed lighting will not unreasonably harm or restrict public
health, safety, and welfare, or create a nuisance, and shall be limited by the
following measurements.
         (a)   The amount of illumination attributable to exterior lighting
from a property shall not exceed 1 foot-candle when measured at any boundary
line with an adjoining property .
         (b)   Any light intensity measurement taken at the property line shall
be measured at the greatest point of illumination of said property line. Any
measurements to determine the maximum lighting levels of a site will be
measured at eye level and aimed at the light source.
   (H)   Sign  setbacks. In all districts signs  shall be set back 10 feet from
the lot  lines. Signs  shall not be allowed in any utility easement in any
district.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.102 DEVELOPMENT COMPLEX SIGNAGE.
   The following standards apply to signs for development complexes for
properties with 2 or more tenants:
   (A)   Development complexes may display 1 development complex sign. This
sign can be a freestanding sign, a monument sign, or a wall sign, and each sign
shall be limited to the maximum wall size permitted in the district.
   (B)   Individual tenants of multiple occupancy structures shall not display
separate business signs unless the tenants' business has an exclusive exterior
entrance. The number of signs shall be limited to 1 wall sign per entrance, and
each sign shall be limited to the maximum wall size permitted in the district.
The signs shall be located only on exterior walls that are directly related to
the use being identified.
   (C)   If there is a development complex with 3 or more tenants that does not
have exclusive exterior entrances, a directory sign shall be permitted for each
common public entrance. Each directory sign area shall not exceed a total of 24
square feet and shall be located within 25 feet of the common public entrance
being served. The size of individual business identification signing within the
directory shall be established during the review process. Attention shall be
given to the possible number of tenant or occupancy bays that may be served by
the common public entrance for which the directory sign is intended.
   (D)   A sign plan shall be required for all development complexes consisting
of 3 or more tenant spaces in commercial areas. The plan shall be filed with
the project application and shall be processed concurrently. The purpose of the
plan shall be to integrate signs with building and landscaping design to form a
unified architectural statement. This shall be achieved by:
      (1)   Using the same type of cabinet supports or method of mounting for
signs and the same type of construction material for components, such as sign
copy, cabinets, returns, and supports, allowing for uniformity and quality in
appearance;
      (2)   Using the same form of illumination of the signs; and
      (3)   For wall signs, specifying uniform sign positioning for both anchor
tenants and minor tenants.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2024-9-3, passed 9-10-2024)
§ 153.103 VARIANCES.
   The City Council shall have the authority to approve or deny variances from
the provisions of this subchapter. An applicant for variance shall proceed as
required under §
153.188.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
§ 153.104 TYPES OF SIGNS.
   Examples of common signs:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1889.png]
 
   (A)   A-frame signs. A-frame signs are permitted as indicated in §
153.101(B)(2), subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   A-frame signs are limited to 6 square feet in area per side and 4
feet in height. The use of A-frame signs is limited to business hours only and
may only be displayed during daylight hours. Signs must be stored indoors at
all other times.
      (2)   An A-frame sign must be placed on the property where the business
is located and within 10 feet of the primary entrance of the business or out of
the right-of-way in front of the property. A-frame signs must provide an
unobstructed sidewalk width of at least 5 feet for pedestrian passage and must
not interfere with pedestrian traffic or violate standards of accessibility.
      (3)   The permit applicant must provide and maintain in force a
certificate of insurance, in a form approved by the city, that evidences that
the applicant has in force insurance in the minimum amounts required by the
city for bodily injuries or property damage in any 1 year protecting such
person or organization and the city against liability for injuries or damages
resulting from the placement of such objects or materials in the public right-
of-way. Proof of insurance must be renewed on an annual basis.
      (4)   A-frame signs are permitted in the commercially zoned districts
only.
      (5)   Only 1 A-frame sign is permitted per business.
      (6)   The sign shall be professionally painted and maintained in a neat
and readable manner.
      (7)   Signs shall not be staked into the ground.
      (8)   Signs shall not be lighted and shall not utilize noise amplifiers.
      (9)   Properties which have a changeable message sign may not display an
A-frame sign.
      (10)   Signs may be displayed only during hours of operation.
   (B)   Awning signs. Awnings without printing, with the exception of a street
address number (number only), are considered an architectural feature and are
not regulated by this section. Awning signs are permitted as indicated in §
153.101(B)(2), subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Awning signs must maintain a minimum vertical clearance of 7 feet 6
inches.
      (2)   Awning signs must be located a minimum of 18 inches from the back
of curb.
      (3)   Awning signs must comply with Minnesota State Building and Fire
Codes, including provisions for encroachment into the public right-of-way,
structural requirements, sprinkler protections, and similar regulations.
      (4)   Awning signs must be made of a durable, weather-resistant material
like canvas, canvas-like material, nylon, vinyl-coated fabric, or metal. Solid,
flat-roofed awnings may also be made out of finished wood, wood and plastic
composites, metal, or metal cladding.
      (5)   Printing on any awning sign is limited to 30% of the surface area.
      (6)   Awning signs are permitted lettering attached to and located above
the top of a solid awning to a maximum height of 24 inches. Signs mounted to
solid, flat roofed awnings are limited to individually-mounted letters with
internal illumination (if illuminated), or a sign board with external
illumination; no internally illuminated cabinet signs.
      (7)   Awning signs may illuminate the printed area of the awning with
gooseneck or similar external illumination. Back lit awnings are prohibited.
      (8)   Under-awning signs are permitted subject to the following.
         (a)   Under-awning signs must be attached to the underside of an
awning. Under-awning signs may not project beyond the awning.
         (b)   Under-awning signs must maintain a minimum vertical clearance of
7 feet.
         (c)   A maximum of 1 under-awning sign is permitted per business
establishment with frontage on the street where the awning is mounted.
         (d)   Each under awning sign is limited to a maximum of 6 square feet.
         (e)   Under-awning signs must be securely fixed to the awning with
metal supports.
         (f)   Under-awning signs must be made of wood, metal, or plastic.
      (9)   A sign permit is required for recovering or resurfacing an existing
awning sign.
   (C)   Canopy signs. Canopies without printing, with the exception of a
street address number (number only), are considered an architectural feature
and are not regulated by this section. Canopy signs are permitted as indicated
in §
153.101(B)(2), subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Canopy signs must maintain a minimum vertical clearance of 7 feet 6
inches.
      (2)   Canopy signs must be located at least 18 inches from the back of
curb. Support posts must maintain a minimum separation of 5 feet between posts
and between the posts and any building wall. No obstructions are permitted
within this area.
      (3)   Canopy signs must comply with Minnesota State Building and Fire
Codes, including provisions for encroachment into the public right-of-way,
structural requirements, sprinkler protections, and similar regulations.
      (4)   Canopy signs must be made of a durable, weather-resistant material
like canvas, canvas-like material, nylon, vinyl-coated fabric, or metal. Solid,
flat-roofed canopies may also be made out of finished wood, wood and plastic
composites, metal, or metal cladding.
      (5)   Printing on any canopy sign is limited to 30% of the surface area.
Signs mounted to solid, flat-roofed canopies are limited to individually-
mounted letters with internal illumination (if illuminated) or a sign board
with external illumination; no internally illuminated cabinet signs.
      (6)   Canopies may include underside, external illumination.
      (7)   Under-canopy signs are permitted subject to the following.
         (a)   Under-canopy signs must be attached to the underside of a
canopy. Under-canopy signs must not project beyond the canopy.
         (b)   Under-canopy signs must maintain a minimum vertical clearance of
7 feet.
         (c)   A maximum of 1 under-canopy sign is permitted.
         (d)   Each under-canopy sign is limited to a maximum of 6 square feet.
         (e)   Under-canopy signs must be securely fixed to the canopy with
metal supports.
         (f)   Under-canopy signs must be made of wood, metal, or plastic.
   (D)   Changeable message signs. Changeable message signs are permitted as
indicated in §
153.101(B)(2), subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Only 1 changeable message sign per lot is permitted.
      (2)   Each message or image displayed on a changeable message sign must
be static or depicted for a minimum of 8 seconds.
      (3)   Changeable message signs are permitted as part of a freestanding
sign, wall sign, or marquee, and, in addition, are subject to the requirements
for those sign types.
      (4)   Changeable message signs must be integrated into the larger sign
structure and must include the name of the use as a non-electronic component as
part of the sign structure. Changeable message signs are limited to a maximum
of 60% of the sign area of the freestanding or wall sign with which it is
integrated.
      (5)   Changeable message signs cannot display any off-premises commercial
advertising.
      (6)   The sign shall be at least 50 feet from any residential district or
use; the following modes of displaying the message shall be permitted, all
other modes are prohibited:
         (a)   Fade in and fade out;
         (b)   Left to right or right to left; and
         (c)   Top to bottom or bottom to top.
      (7)   Modes which cause the message to flash are prohibited.
      (8)   Brightness. The brightness of the sign may not at any time exceed
0.3 foot candles above ambient light levels as measured from 50 feet from the
sign's face. The sign must be equipped with automatic dimming technology or
other mechanism that automatically adjusts the sign's illumination level based
on ambient light conditions.
      (9)   The sign must be able to automatically go on and off at certain
times.
      (10)   Display. The text and images displayed must be complete in
themselves, without continuation in content to the next image or text or to any
other signs.
      (11)   Acknowledgment. Prior to the issuance of a sign permit for a sign,
each property owner must sign an acknowledgement indicating agreement to comply
with these standards.
      (12)   Enforcement. All outstanding code compliance issues must be
resolved before a permit for a changeable message sign may be approved. Upon
installation of a freestanding changeable message display sign, the property
owner acknowledges that the property may no longer display any temporary
banners, or A-frame signs. All window signs must comply with this subchapter,
both permanent and temporary. The person owning or controlling the sign must
adjust the sign to meet the standards of this code or turn the sign off within
1 business day of notice of noncompliance by the city. Once the issue has been
corrected, the owner/operator shall notify the city prior to turning the sign
back on.
   (E)   Monument signs.
      (1)   Landscaping consisting of mulched shrub and perennial bed shall be
installed around the base of the sign, with a landscaping plan to be approved
by city staff.
      (2)   In R-3A and R-3B, 1 monument sign is permitted per property or
development, whichever is more restrictive, in residential districts for
residential subdivisions and multi-family dwellings of 9 or more units. The
sign shall be designed to be architecturally compatible with the building or
project, and shall be landscaped around the base of the sign. Monument signs in
residential zoning districts may be lit internally provided that portions of
the sign not devoted to changeable messaging consist of white or light-colored
lettering with a dark, un-lit background. All internally illuminated signs
shall be light-colored lettering with dark, unlit background.
   (F)   Wall signs. Wall signs are permitted as indicated in §
153.101(B)(2), subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Wall signs may be internally or externally illuminated. If
externally illuminated, all light must be directed onto the sign face from
above.
      (2)   Wall signs must be safely and securely attached to the building
wall. Wall signs must be affixed flat against the wall.
      (3)   No wall sign mounted on a structure may project above the roof of
the structure to which it is attached, including the sign support structure.
      (4)   Wall signs must be constructed of wood, brick, metal, or plastic.
Wall signs of durable, weather-resistant material like canvas, canvas-like
material, nylon, or vinyl-coated fabric are also permitted but the signs must
be held taught to the building with no sags or wrinkles and the mounting
devices must be concealed by a frame that covers the entire perimeter of the
banner.
      (5)    Wall signs must not cover windows, doors. or architectural
features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/01e250c700c187b97817ac68ced4dc8d49e99e3b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1891.png]
 
      (6)    Commercial buildings. For single tenant buildings, wall signs are
permitted on the front, side, or rear of a building, except that wall signs may
not face abutting residential property on the side or rear of a building.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.105 ADULT USE SIGNS.
   (A)    All adult use signs shall be flat wall signs. No signs shall be
freestanding, located on the roof, or contain any flashing lights, moving
elements, or electronically or mechanically changing messages. No sign shall
contain any message or image which identifies specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined herein.
   (B)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be 1 square foot of sign area
per foot of lot frontage on a street, not to exceed 80 square feet.
   (C)   No merchandise, photos, or pictures of the products or entertainment
on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can
be viewed from the sidewalk or public right-of-way adjoining the building or
structure in which the sexually oriented business is located.
   (D)   No signs shall be placed in any window. A 1 square foot sign may be
placed on the door to state hours of operation and admittance to adults only.
(Ord. 2018-10-3, passed 10-9-2018)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 153.110 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of and
design standards for off-street parking facilities within the city, to minimize
congestion on the public right-of-way, and to maximize the safety and general
welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 906.01)
§ 153.111 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   No provision of any section of this code shall be less restrictive than
those outlined in this section. The off-street parking requirements and off-
street loading requirements of this section shall apply within all zoning
districts.
(Prior Code, § 906.01)
§ 153.112 CALCULATING SPACE.
   (A)   Where calculations result in requiring a fractional space, any
fraction less than ½ shall be disregarded and any fraction of ½ or more shall
require 1 space.
   (B)   The term FLOOR AREA for the purpose of calculating the number of off-
street parking spaces required shall be determined on the basis of the exterior
floor area dimensions of the building structure or use times the number of
floors, minus 10%.
   (C)   Should a building or structure contain 2 or more types of uses, each
should be calculated separately for determining the total off-street parking
spaces required.
(Prior Code, § 906.01)
§ 153.113 SITE PLAN.
   Except for single-family dwellings, all applications for a building permit
shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and dimensioned indicating
the location of all off-street parking and loading spaces in compliance with
the requirements of this section. Such plan shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and approved by the City Council, in accordance with the criteria
developed in this section.
(Prior Code, § 901.06) (Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.114 SITE PLAN CRITERIA.
   Upon review by the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council, the
plan for off-street parking shall meet the following site design standards.
   (A)   All areas devoted to parking space and driveways shall be surfaced
with materials suitable to control dust and drainage as determined by the
Planning Commission and City Council. All parking areas shall be designed to
control surface runoff to adjacent properties either with curbing or grading
techniques.
   (B)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
directed away from abutting property and public right-of-way.
   (C)   No sign shall be so located that it restricts the sight, orderly
operation, and traffic movement within any parking area.
   (D)   All parking lots shall be screened and landscaped from abutting
residential uses or districts by a wall, fence, or densely-planted compact
hedge or tree cover not less than 4 feet nor more than 8 feet in height.
   (E)   The parking area shall meet the minimum design standards and number of
stalls required under this section.
(Prior Code, § 901.06)
§ 153.115 REDUCTION OF EXISTING PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   No parking or loading spaces existing upon the effective date of the
ordinance set forth in this section shall subsequently be reduced below the
requirements of this section.
(Prior Code, § 901.06)
§ 153.116 CHANGE OF USE OR OCCUPANCY OF LAND OR BUILDINGS.
   No change of use or occupancy of land, or of use or occupancy of any
building, shall be made until there is furnished sufficient parking and loading
spaces as required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 901.06)
§ 153.117 USE OF PARKING AND LOADING SPACE.
   Required parking or loading spaces shall not be used for storage of goods or
for storage of vehicles that are inoperable or for sale or rent.
(Prior Code, § 901.06)
§ 153.118 MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the joint and several responsibility of the lessee and/or owner
of the principal use, uses or building to maintain in a neat and adequate
manner the parking area, striping, landscaping and screening.
(Prior Code, § 901.06)
§ 153.119 STALL, AISLE, AND DRIVEWAY DESIGN.
   (A)   Except in the case of single-family and two-family dwellings, parking
areas shall be designed so that circulation between parking aisles or driveways
occurs within the designated parking lot and does not depend upon a public
street or alley, and such design does not require backing into the public
street.
   (B)   Except in the case of single-family and two-family dwellings, parking
areas shall comply with the following standards.
 
Angle of Parking Stall Width Stall Depth Minimum Driveway Width
0º              9'          101'*       12'
30º             9'          19'         12'
45º             9'          21'         13'
60º             9'          22'         18'
90º             9'          20'         24'
 
*   Parallel parking: 22 feet in length
   (C)   No curb cut access shall be located less than 40 feet from the
intersection of 2 or more street right-of-ways for residential uses and 60 feet
for commercial and industrial areas. This distance shall be measured from the
intersection of lot lines.
   (D)   Curb cut openings shall be a minimum of 5 feet from the side property
line.
   (E)   All property shall be entitled to at least one curb cut. Single-family
dwelling lots shall be limited to one curb cut access per property.
   (F)   All parking spaces shall be served by access aisle or driveway
connections to a public right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 906.01) (Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.120 NUMBER OF REQUIRED PARKING AND LOADING SPACES.
   The following minimum number of off-street parking and loading spaces shall
be provided and maintained.
Use Number of Parking Spaces to be Required
Use                                    Number of Parking Spaces to be Required
Single-family dwelling and two-family  2 spaces per dwelling unit
dwelling
Multi-family dwelling                  2 free spaces per dwelling unit
Boarding house, fraternity house,      2 spaces for each 3 persons (for whom
sorority house                         accommodations are provided for
                                       sleeping)
Elderly housing                        .5 space per unit
Baseball fields, stadiums              1 space for each 8 seats
Schools                                As required by the Minnesota Department
                                       of Education
Public parks and playgrounds           As required by the Planning Commission
Church, theater, auditorium or         1 space for each 4 seats of main
gymnasiums                             assembly hall
Skating rink, dance hall, and public   1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
auction house                          area
Miniature golf course, archery range,  10 spaces respectively
golf driving range
Hospital                               2 spaces per bed
Nursing home, day nursery, sanitarium, 4 spaces plus 1 for each 3 beds
or rest home
Office buildings, banks, professional  1 space per 200 sq. ft. of gross floor
offices, animal hospitals              area
Undertaking establishments             1 space per 50 sq. ft. of gross floor
                                       area
                                       1 space for each rental room plus the
Motels, hotels                         number of spaces required for a
                                       restaurant below
Drive-in establishment and convenience 1 space for each 150 sq. ft. of gross
food                                   floor area or number of stalls plus .5
                                       stall for every employee
Bowling alley                          5 spaces per lane or alley
Retail store and service establishment 1 space per 250 sq. ft. of floor area
Retail sales and services with 50% or  1 space per 200 sq, ft. of gross floor
more of floor area devoted to storage, area devoted to sales or service plus 1
warehouse, and/or industry             space per 500 sq. ft. of storage area
 
Use Number of Parking Spaces to be Required
Use                                    Number of Parking Spaces to be Required
Automobile service station (motor fuel 4 spaces plus 2 spaces for each stall
station)
Restaurants, cafes, private clubs,     1 space for 40 sq. ft. of gross floor
bars, taverns and nightclubs           area of dining and bar area and 1 space
                                       per 80 sq. ft. of kitchen area
Car wash
Automatic drive through                10 spaces
Self-service                           2 spaces
Auto repair, bus and taxi terminals,
boat and marine sales and repair,      8 spaces plus 1 additional space per 800
bottling company, garden supply store, sq. ft. of floor area over 1,000 sq. ft.
building material sales in structure
Manufacturing, fabricating or          1 space per 400 sq. ft. of gross floor
processing of a product or materials;  area
warehouse, storage or post office
 
   (L)   Joint facilities. The Council may, after receiving a recommendation
from the Planning Commission, approve a conditional use permit for 1 or more
businesses to provide the required off-street parking facilities by joint use
of 1 or more sites where the total number of spaces provided are less than the
sum of the total required for each business, if the following conditions are
satisfactorily met:
      (1)   The building or use for which the application is being made to
utilize the off-street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of such parking facilities;
      (2)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict in
the operating hours of the 2 buildings or uses for which joint use of off-
street parking facilities is proposed;
      (3)   The provisions of other sections of this subchapter are considered
and satisfactorily met.
   (M)   Off-street loading facilities. Loading space required under this
subchapter shall be at least 50 feet long and 10 feet wide. The regulations of
this subchapter are not applicable in the CBD District. Every lot used for
commercial or industrial purposes and having a building or buildings with a
total floor area of at least 10,000 square feet and every lot used for office
or research purposes on which there is a building or buildings having a total
floor area of at least 20,000 square feet shall be provided with an off-street
loading space. An additional off-street loading space shall be required for
lots used for commercial or industrial purposes where the floor area of all
buildings exceeds 100,000 square feet.
(Prior Code, § 906.01) (Am. Ord. 2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019)
§ 153.121 PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to reduce the visual clutter, surface
soil runoff, facilitate stormwater infiltration, promote the general safety and
welfare, and protect the property values of adjoining properties by controlling
the number of vehicles that may be parked on a residentially zoned lot, and the
impervious surface created by driveways.
   (B)   Parking in all residential districts shall be subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   Required off-street parking in the residential districts shall be
on the same lot as the principal building unless otherwise approved by the City
Council;
      (2)   Non-passenger vehicles larger than 16,000 pounds gross vehicle
weight shall not be parked or stored in a residential district except when
loading, unloading or rendering a service. Under no circumstances shall parking
facilities accessory to residential structures be used for open air storage of
non-passenger vehicles larger than 16,000 pounds gross vehicle weight. The
weight restriction in this division shall not apply to parcels that have
permitted direct vehicular access to a county road or county state aid highway.
      (3)   No person shall cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residentially zoned property unless it
complies with the following requirements:
         (a)   A property located in the R-l, R-2, and R-3A zoning districts,
or planned unit development districts where the primary use is single-family
dwellings may have a maximum of 4 passenger vehicles, in addition to any
permitted motorcycles, recreational vehicles or trailers, parked or stored
outside of an enclosed garage on the property of the primary residence for the
occupants of that property, provided all passenger vehicles are parked or
stored on the lot as regulated by the City Code. A permitted accessory unit
dwelling shall not be entitled to park additional vehicles than are otherwise
allowed for the primary dwelling unit.
   (C)   Recreational vehicles and trailers.
      (1)   On a residential lot 1 acre or larger, not more than 4 of any
combination of recreational vehicles or trailers of any class may be parked or
stored outside, provided at least 2 are completely screened from view from
public roads or adjacent properties.
      (2)   On residential lots smaller than 1 acre, a resident may park or
store the following outside: either 1 Class I recreational vehicle or trailer
and either 1 Class II recreational vehicle or trailer; or not more than 2 Class
I recreational vehicles or trailers. Under no circumstances shall there be more
than 1 Class II recreational vehicle or trailer parked or stored outside on
residential lots smaller than 1 acre at any one point in time.
      (3)   Motorized recreational vehicles or recreational equipment on
trailers and Class II trailers shall be parked or stored entirely on the
vehicle owner's property. If parked in the front of the primary residence, all
recreational vehicles and trailers regardless of classification shall be
located on the established driveway. If stored in the rear yard, Class II
recreational vehicles and Class II trailers shall be 10 feet from the rear lot
line, or 20 feet from any street-side lot line. When parked or stored outside,
trailers shall be emptied of all refuse, debris, junk, or other materials.
      (4)   Recreational vehicles are not to be occupied or used for living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes while parked or stored on any lot; except
nonpaying guests of the owner of the property may occupy 1 recreational vehicle
in addition to those permitted herein. This vehicle shall be parked subject to
the provisions of this section and used for sleeping purposes for a period not
to exceed 7 consecutive days at one time or more than 14 days total in one
calendar year.
   (D)   Permit to allow exception consideration. The City Council may approve
with or without conditions, an annual on-site parking permit for parking
outside an enclosed garage for vehicles, trailers, and or recreational
vehicles, on an R-l, R-2, or R-3A zoned property, or planned unit development
districts where the primary use is single-family dwellings, provided it meets
the following standards:
      (1)   Application for such a parking permit shall include:
         (a)   An aerial map of property;
         (b)   A site plan drawn to scale showing the location of proposed
parking with a plan to screen the parking from adjacent properties and public
streets, by means of landscaping, fences or walls to be reviewed by the City
Planner and approved by the City Council;
      (2)   Property owners within 150 feet of the property shall be notified
in writing by the city of the request at least 10 days before the City Council
meeting where the permit is considered;
      (3)   Decision on the parking permit shall be by the City Council, with
no Planning Commission involvement unless directed by the City Council;
      (4)   No vehicles or trailers shall encroach into or otherwise block a
sidewalk, trail, path or roadway; or within the area between any sidewalk and
roadway;
      (5)   All vehicles must be operational and properly licensed;
      (6)   All motorized vehicles shall be parked at least 10 feet from a
primary structure located on an adjacent property; and
      (7)   All screening or landscaping shall be kept in good repair. If the
city finds it is not, the permit may be revoked by the City Council with 30
days' notice to the property owner.
      (8)   Annual renewal process. The owner shall pay an annual fee permit
fee as in the current city fee schedule in
Chapter 34 of this Code.
(Ord. 2013-5-1, passed 6-11-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-3-2, passed 3-16-2015; Am. Ord.
2019-8-3, passed 8-13-2019; Am. Ord. 2021-2-1, passed 2-9-2021)
TOWERS AND ANTENNAE
§ 153.155 PURPOSE.
   In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses
while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community, the Council finds that these regulations are necessary in order to:
   (A)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to the
residents and businesses of the city;
   (B)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers, and development
inconsistent with the city's comprehensive plan, through careful location,
design and siting standards;
   (C)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
   (D)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the community.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.156 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including but not limited to directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and omni-
directional antennas such as whip antennas.
   CO-LOCATION. Requirement that towers be structurally designed to accommodate
multiple users and regulated to require multiple users.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed (or authorized by
F.C.C.) commercial wireless telecommunication services, including cellular,
personal communication services (PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR),
enhanced specialized mobilized radio (ESMR), paging, and similar services that
are marketed to the general public.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Persons, corporations, or governments supplying gas,
electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone service to the
general public. For the purpose of this subchapter, commercial wireless
telecommunication service facilities shall not be considered public utility
uses and are defined separately.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than 15 feet, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces
and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.
   TOWER, MULTI-USER. A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than 1
commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or governmental entity.
   TOWER, SINGLE-USER. A tower to which is attached only the antennas of a
single user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the antennas of
multiple users as required in this Code.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.157 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Construction and placement of towers in all zoning districts shall require a
conditional use permit. As part of the conditional use, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for all administrative, technical and legal costs incurred
by the city in reviewing the application. The continuing validity of a
conditional use permit is contingent upon payment of these costs. Permittee
shall notify the city prior to transfer of the permit to a third party.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.158 TOWERS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Towers in residentially zoned areas shall be allowed only as follows.
   (A)   Towers supporting licensed amateur radio, citizen band radio and
television antennas, conforming to all applicable provisions of this code,
shall be allowed only in the rear yard of residentially zoned parcels. Roof
mounted structures supporting satellite dishes, and radio, television and
telephone antennas shall be allowed.
   (B)   Towers supporting commercial antennas and conforming to all applicable
provisions of this code shall be allowed only in the following residentially
zoned locations:
      (1)   Church sites, when camouflaged such as within steeples or bell
towers;
      (2)   Park sites, when compatible with the nature of the park; and
      (3)   Government, school, utility, and institutional sites.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.159 SHOWING OF NEED AND CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall be supported with a showing by the applicant that a significant
coverage gap exists for wireless services users in the city that can be
adequately filled by the proposed location and that such location is the least
intrusive alternative available to fill the service gap. To demonstrate that
the proposed location is the least intrusive alternative the applicant must
show that no other antenna locations provide or would provide adequate coverage
to the proposed area within the city. Further, an application for new wireless
service shall not be approved unless the City Council finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a 1 mile
search radius of the proposed tower due to 1 or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost;
      (2)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building
as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
      (3)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to function
reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer;
      (4)   Other reasons that make it infeasible to locate the planned
telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or building.
   (B)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower shall
be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to accommodate
both the applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for multiple users.
Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the
tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.160 TOWER CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All towers erected, constructed, or located within the city, and all wiring
therefor, shall comply with the requirements set forth in
Chapter 150.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.161 TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Proposed or modified towers and antennas shall meet the following design
requirements.
   (A)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and/or camouflaging architectural
treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state
authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
   (B)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.162 TOWER SETBACKS.
   Towers shall conform with each of the following minimum setback
requirements.
   (A)   In residentially zoned areas, the required setback for antenna and
tower not rigidly attached to a building shall be not less than the height of
the antenna and tower, or the setback requirements under §§
153.045 et seq., whichever is greater.
   (B)   Non-residentially zoned areas, the required setback from adjacent
property, street or existing or planned public right-of-way for the tower shall
not be less than the height of the tower, including all antenna and other
attachments, or the setback under §§
153.045 et seq., whichever is greater.
   (C)   Towers shall not be located between a principal structure and a public
right-of-way, with the following exceptions: in industrial zoning districts,
towers may be placed within a side yard abutting an internal industrial public
right-of-way or easement;
   (D)   An exception to the setback requirement under this section, and §§
153.045 et seq., shall be allowed in industrial districts, where towers may
encroach into the rear setback area, provided that the rear property line abuts
another industrially zoned property and the tower does not encroach upon any
easement;
   (E)   In its sole discretion, the City Council may reduce a tower setback
otherwise required by ordinance for the purpose of allowing integration of a
tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a church steeple, light
standard, power line support device, or similar structure, where credible
engineering data presented by the applicant demonstrates no safety risk from
the setback modification.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.163 TOWER LIGHTING.
   Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not display
strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the Federal
Aviation Administration or other federal or state authority for a particular
tower. When incorporated into the approved design of the tower, light fixtures
used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots, or similar areas may be attached
to the tower.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.164 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   The use of any portion of a tower for signs other than warning or equipment
information signs is prohibited.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.165 ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS.
   All utility buildings and structures accessory to a tower shall be
architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding environment and shall
meet the minimum setback requirements of the underlying zoning district. Ground
mounted equipment shall be screened from view by suitable vegetation, except
where a design of non-vegetive screening better reflects and complements the
architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.166 ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR PORTIONS OF TOWERS. 
   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers shall be removed as
follows.
   (A)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within 6 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a
time extension is approved by the City Council. A copy of the relevant portions
of a signed lease which requires the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the site shall be
submitted at the time of application. The owner of the tower must provide
written notice to the city immediately upon cessation of operations at the
site. All sales must be reported to the city. In the event that a tower is not
removed within 6 months of the cessation of operations at a site, the tower and
associated facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal
assessed against the property, unless the property is owned by the city. In
such case the lessee shall be obligated to pay the costs of said removal.
   (B)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall be
removed within 6 months of the time of antenna relocation. The replacement of
portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of a new
conditional use permit.
   (C)   The owner of the tower shall maintain the structure in a safe
condition. Non-maintained towers or unsafe conditions are subject to
enforcement under
Chapter 95 or
Chapter 150.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.167 ANTENNAS MOUNTED ON ROOFS, WALLS, AND EXISTING TOWERS.
   (A)   The placement of wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls,
and existing towers may by approved by the City Council, provided the antennas
meet the requirements of this Code, after submittal of:
      (1)   A final site and building plan as specified by the City Code; and
      (2)   A report prepared by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
indicating the existing structure or tower's suitability to accept the antenna
and the proposed method of affixing the antenna to the structure.
   (B)   Complete details of all fixtures and couplings and the precise point
of attachment shall be indicated.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.168 INTERFERENCE WITH PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATIONS.
   No telecommunications service governed under this section shall interfere
with public safety telecommunications transmissions. All applicants for new
service or changes in existing service shall be accompanied by an
intermodulation study, carried out at applicant's expense, that demonstrates no
interference with public safety telecommunications transmissions. In the event
a permittee creates radio frequency interference with public safety
telecommunications, after documentation by credible testing, the permittee
shall remedy the interference within 5 business days, at its sole cost, or be
subject to revocation of the permit granted by the city.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.169 ADDITIONAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the information required elsewhere in this Code, development
applications for towers shall include the following supplemental information:
   (A)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which:
      (1)   Describes the tower height and design, including a cross section
and elevation;
      (2)   Documents the height above grade for all potential mounting
positions for co-located antennas and the minimum separation distances between
antennas;
      (3)   Describes the tower's capacity, including the number and type of
antennas that it can accommodate;
      (4)   Documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid interference
with established public safety telecommunications;
      (5)   Includes an engineer's stamp and registration number;
      (6)   Includes soil sample reports, which indicates sufficient ground
support; and
      (7)   Includes other information necessary to evaluate the request;
   (B)   For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a
written commitment from the tower owner and his or her successors to allow the
shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use;
   (C)   Before the issuance of a building permit, the following information
shall be submitted:
      (1)   Proof that the proposed tower complies with regulations
administered by Federal Aviation Administration; and
      (2)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which
demonstrates the tower's compliance with the aforementioned structural and
electrical standards;
   (D)   Towers on city-owned property shall comply with the following:
      (1)   When a permit is granted for the construction of a tower on city-
owned property, the applicant shall obtain adequate insurance and commit to a
lease agreement which includes compensation for the use of public land and
other necessary provisions and safeguards. The compensation shall be
established by the City Council after considering the comparable rates in other
cities, potential expenses, risks to the city and other appropriate factors;
      (2)   The applicant will submit a letter of credit, performance bond or
other security acceptable to the city to cover the estimated costs of antenna
or tower removal, in the event the tower is built and the owner fails to remove
it;
      (3)   The applicant must reimburse the city for any cost it incurs due to
the presence of the applicant's antennas or towers;
      (4)   When a permit is granted for the construction on industrial,
business or any type of residential land, the applicant shall present a letter
certifying that there is a bond or insurance on the property to cover any
accidents or costs, such as power outages, personal or property damages, which
may occur because of the presence of the applicant's antennas or towers;
      (5)   The applicant shall pay all costs incurred by the city related to
the application, including engineering, legal, testing, research and all other
costs;
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.170 HEIGHT. 
   (A)   Structure height.
      (1)   The height of towers shall be determined by measuring the vertical
distance from the tower's point of contact with the ground or rooftop to the
highest point of the tower, including all antennas or other attachments. When
towers are mounted upon other structures, the combined height of the structure
and tower must meet the height restrictions of this section.
      (2)   The final determination of height shall be made by the City Council
in accordance with the guidelines of divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Height limitations.
      (1)   In all residential zoning districts, the maximum height of any
tower, including all antennas and other attachments shall be 30 feet. An
exception shall allow the total height of the structure, including antenna,
shall not exceed 10 feet above the place of attachment on the roof.
      (2)   In all non-residential zoning districts, the maximum height of any
tower, including all antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed 199 feet,
subject to the set back requirements under §
153.162 and §§
153.045 et seq.
   (C)   Applicability. In accordance with the Federal Communications
Commission's preemptive ruling PRB1, towers erected for the primary purpose of
supporting licensed amateur radio antennas may exceed 75 feet in height,
provided that a determination is made by the City Council that the proposed
tower height is technically necessary to successfully engage in amateur radio
communication.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
§ 153.171 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF ANTENNA AND SUPPORTING TOWERS.
   (A)   Permits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct in place, place or re-erect, replace, or make major repairs on any
tower without first making application for a building permit and securing a
permit therefor as hereinafter provided. In emergency situations, the tower
owner may make repairs on the condition it seeks a permit within 48 hours of
commencing the repairs.
      (2)   The applicant shall provide at the time of application sufficient
information to indicate that construction, installation, and maintenance of the
antenna and tower will not create a safety hazard or damage to the property of
other persons.
      (3)   Permits are not required for:
         (a)   Adjustment or replacement of the elements of an antenna array
affixed to a tower or antenna, provided that replacement does not reduce the
safety factor;
         (b)   Antennas and/or towers erected temporarily for test purposes,
for emergency communication, or for broadcast remote pick-up operations,
provided that all requirements are met. Temporary antennas shall be removed
within 72 hours following installation or the ending of the emergency.
   (B)   Fee. The fee to be paid is that prescribed under building permit fees.
   (C)   Construction requirements. All antennas and towers erected,
constructed, or within the city, and all wiring therefor, shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   All applicable provisions of this code;
      (2)   Towers shall be certified by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind loading
requirements of the Uniform Building Code and the Electronics Industry
Association;
      (3)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service and
connection line approved by the Issuing Authority, no part of any antenna or
tower nor any lines, cable, equipment or wires or braces in connection with
either shall at any time extend across or over any part of the right-of-way,
public street, highway, sidewalk, or property line;
      (4)   Towers and associated antennas shall be designed to conform with
accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the
provisions of the National Electrical Code;
      (5)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least 8 feet above the ground at all
points, unless buried underground;
      (6)   Every tower affixed to the ground in a non-residential zone shall
be protected by a perimeter fence of a minimum 6 foot height to discourage
climbing of the tower by unauthorized persons;
      (7)   All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements of
the most current applicable E.I.A. tower standard;
      (8)   Antennas and towers shall not be erected in any R-1, R-2, and R-
M zoning districts in violation of the following restrictions:
         (a)   The height of any tower and antenna shall be equal to less than
5 feet of the length of the distance from the base of the antenna and tower to
the nearest overhead power line which serves more than 1 dwelling or place of
business;
         (b)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive
resistant material. Wood poles shall be impregnated with rot resistant
substances;
      (9)   All towers erected within the city must conform to the applicable
performance standards in
Chapter 150 of this Code.
   (D)   Existing antennas and towers. Antennas and towers in residential
districts and in existence as of February 8, 2001, which do not conform to or
comply with this subchapter are subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as now
existing but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
all respects with this section.
      (2)   If such towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed due to any reason
or cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its former use,
location, and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit therefor,
but without otherwise complying with this section; provided, however, that if
the cost of repairing the tower to the former use, physical dimensions, and
location would be 10% or more of the cost of a new tower of like kind and
quality, then the tower may not be repaired or restored except in full
compliance with this section.
   (F)   Lights and other attachments. No antenna or tower shall have affixed
or attached to it in any way, except during time of repair or installation, any
lights, reflectors, flashers, or other illuminating device, except as required
by the Federal Aviation Agency or the Federal Communications Commission, nor
shall any tower have constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in any way, any
platform, catwalk, crow's nest, or like structure, except during periods of
construction or repair.
   (G)   Number of towers and antennas. Only one tower shall exist at any one
time on any one residential parcel as defined in the City Zoning Code.
   (H)   Inspections. All towers may be inspected at least once each year by a
city official to determine compliance with original construction standards. The
cost of the inspection shall be the responsibility of the property owner or
tower owner if the property is leased. Deviation from original construction for
which a permit is obtained constitutes a violation of this section. Notice of
violations will be sent by registered mail to the owner and he or she will have
30 days from the date the notification is issued to make repairs, unless a
public safety emergency exists under Chapter 95. The owner will notify the City
Clerk that the repairs have been made, and as soon as possible, another
inspection will be made and the owner notified of the results. At the city's
request, the tower owner shall provide on an annual basis proof of compliance
with federal R.F radiation emissions standards. If the owner does not promptly
provide such proof with annual testing in accordance with federal R.F.
radiation emission standards, the city may retain a qualified testing engineer,
the cost of which shall be borne by the tower owner to assure compliance
herewith.
   (I)   Violations. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (J)   Interpretation. It is not the intention of this section to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any covenant or other agreement between parties;
provided, however, where this section imposes a greater restriction upon the
use or premises for antennas or towers than are imposed or required by other
ordinances, rules, regulations, or permits, or by covenants or agreements, the
provisions of this section shall govern.
(Ord. 2002-10-04, passed 10-8-2002)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.185 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Council shall appoint the city’s Zoning Administrator as the City Clerk
or their designee and shall:
   (A)   Enforce this chapter;
   (B)   Issue building permits and make and maintain records thereof;
   (C)   Conduct inspections of buildings and use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this chapter;
   (D)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including but
not limited to all maps, amendments, and special uses, variances, appeals and
applications therefore;
   (E)   Receive, file and forward all applications for appeals, variances,
special uses or other matters to the designated official bodies;
   (F)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator as provided for;
   (G)   Serve as an ex-officio non-voting member of the Planning Commission;
   (H)   Any other duties relating to the purposes of this chapter or related
ordinances which may be delegated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 908.01) (Am. Ord. 2022-5-12, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 153.186 BUILDING PERMIT.
   Hereafter, no person shall erect, alter, or move any building or part
thereof without first securing a building permit therefore.
(Prior Code, § 908.02)
§ 153.187 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment of Board. The City Council is hereby constructed and
established as the Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board shall have the power and duties as are
given it by state law, including that of hearing appeals or requests on the
following cases:
      (1)   Appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative officer in the
enforcement of this chapter;
      (2)   Requests for variances from the literal provisions of this chapter
in instances where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration;
      (3)   Appeals from any action of the Zoning Administrator in denying or
granting a building permit.
   (C)   Public hearing. Within 60 days after filing of a request for variance
or an appeal from an administrative order or determination, the Board shall
hold a hearing thereon and shall hear such persons as wish to be heard, either
in person or by agent or attorney. Notices of any hearing shall be mailed not
less than 10 days before the date of the hearing to the person or persons who
file an appeal or request, and in the case of a request for a variance to each
owner of property situated wholly or partially within 300 feet of the property
to which the variance relates insofar as the names and addresses of such owners
can be determined by the Board from records available. Within a reasonable time
after the hearing the Board shall make its recommendations to the Council. The
Council shall make the final decision. Recommendations of the Board are
advisory to the Council.
   (D)   Records. The Board shall provide for a record of its proceedings,
which shall include the minutes of its meetings, its findings, and the action
taken on each matter heard by it, including its recommendation. The Clerk shall
maintain a permanent record of the disposition of all appeals and requests for
variances.
   (E)   Conditions. The Board may recommend the imposition of conditions to
insure compliance and to protect adjacent properties. The Board may not
recommend as a variance any use that is not permitted under this chapter for
the property in the zone where the affected person's land is located.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person or persons jointly or severally aggrieved by any
decision of the Council may appeal to the District Court as provided by law.
The appeal shall be heard and determined by the court without a jury.
(Prior Code, § 908.03) (Am. Ord. 2011-8-1, passed 8-9-2011)
§ 153.188 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for consideration
of requests for variances from the requirements of the zoning code including
restrictions placed on nonconformities.
   (B)   Board of Adjustments and Appeals. The City Council shall act as the
Board of Adjustments and Appeals.
   (C)   Standards for review of variance requests. The Board of Adjustments
and Appeals shall consider variance requests in accordance with the following
standards.
      (1)   Variances shall only be permitted when they are in harmony with the
general purposes and intent of this zoning code.
      (2)   Variances shall only be permitted when consistent with the
comprehensive plan.
      (3)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
code.
         (a)   “Practical difficulties” shall mean that the property owner
proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning
code; the plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not
alter the essential character of the locality.
         (b)   Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties.
      (4)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may not permit as a variance any use
that is not allowed under the zoning code for property in the zone where the
land is located.
      (5)   The Board of Zoning Adjustment may impose conditions in the
granting of variances. A condition must be directly related to and must bear a
rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (D)   Application and procedure. Pursuant to M.S.§ 15.99, an application for
a variance shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of its
official and complete submission unless extended by the city pursuant to
statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city
processing requirements are as follows.
      (1)   A pre-application meeting may be required by city staff at which
the appropriate application procedures, requirements and applicable provisions
relating to the request will be reviewed and explained.
      (2)   Request for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on an official application form. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as set forth in the current city fee schedule. This fee
shall not be refunded.
      (3)   The application shall be considered as being officially submitted
complete when the applicant has complied with all the specified informational
requirements, which shall include the following:
         (a)   A written description of the request for the variance, including
an explanation of compliance with the variance criteria set forth in this
section; and
         (b)   Supporting materials, as outlined in §
153.192, as determined by the Zoning Administrator as applicable to be
necessary for the complete and clear definition and understanding of the
request.
      (4)   Upon receipt of a complete application, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, the City Clerk shall set a public hearing following proper
hearing notification. The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and
report its findings and make recommendations to the Board. Notice of the
hearing shall consist of a legal property description, description of request
and property location, and be published in the official newspaper at least 10
days prior to the hearing. Written notification of said hearing shall be mailed
at least 10 days prior to all owners of land within 350 feet of the boundary of
the property in question.
      (5)   Failure of a property owner to receive notice shall not invalidate
any such proceedings as set forth within this section.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the appropriate staff
persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general
assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the Board.
      (7)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. The information is to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter to ensure compliance with and to protect adjacent
properties and the public interest. Failure of the applicant to supply all
necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and recommend
approval or denial of the request. The Commission’s recommendation and the city
staff’s report shall be presented to the Board, and shall be entered in and
made part of the permanent written record of the Board meeting.
      (9)   The Board shall not act upon the variance until the Planning
Commission has held a public hearing on the request. The Board shall act upon
the request within 60 days from the date of submission, unless an extension has
been provided, pursuant to M.S. § 15.99.
      (10)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving the
reports and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the
Board finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process and thus
the final determination of the Board may differ from that of the Planning
Commission, the Board may, before taking final action, refer the matter back to
the Planning Commission for further consideration. The Board shall provide the
Planning Commission with a written statement detailing the specific reasons for
referral. This procedure shall be followed only one time on a singular action.
      (11)   In granting any variance under the provisions of this section, the
Board shall designate such conditions in connection therewith as will, in its
opinion, secure substantially the objectives of the regulations or provisions
to which the adjustment or variance is granted, as to light, air, and the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare.
      (12)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote of
the City Council.
      (13)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of applications and
variances and the Zoning Administrator shall serve a copy of the final order of
the Board upon the applicant by mail. A certified copy of any approved
variances shall be filed with the County Recorder.
      (14)   Whenever an application for a variance has been considered and
denied by the Board, a similar application for a variance affecting
substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the Planning
Commission or Board for at least 6 months from the date of its denial; and a
subsequent application affecting substantially the same property shall likewise
not be considered again by the Planning Commission or Board for an additional 6
months from the date of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider such
matter is made by a two-thirds vote of the full Board.
   (E)   Criteria. The Board of Adjustment shall not approve any variance
request unless they find failure to grant the variance will result in practical
difficulties to the applicant, and, as may be applicable, all of the following
criteria have been met.
      (1)   Physical characteristics. That because of the particular physical
surroundings, shape, or topographical conditions of the specific parcel of land
involved, a particular hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished
from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter of the regulations were to be
carried out.
      (2)   Unique to parcel. That the conditions upon which an application for
a variance is based, are unique to the parcel of land for which the variance is
sought and are not applicable, generally, to other property within the same
zoning classification.
      (3)   Purely financial. That the purpose of the variance is not based
exclusively upon a financial hardship, or a desire to increase the value or
income potential of the parcel of land.
      (4)   Self-created. That the alleged practical difficulty or hardship is
caused by this chapter and has not been created by any persons having an
interest in the parcel of land and is not a self-created hardship.
      (5)   Public welfare. That the granting of the variance will not be
detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other land or improvements in
the neighborhood in which the parcel of land is located.
      (6)   Nuisance avoided. That the proposed variance will not impair an
adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, substantially increase
the congestion of the public streets, increase the danger of fire, or endanger
the public safety.
      (7)   Minimum action. That the requested variance is the minimum action
required to eliminate the practical difficulties.
      (8)   Use variance. That the requested variance does not involve a use
that is not allowed within the respective zoning district.
   (F)   Enforcement. Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be in
accordance with §
153.999. The city reserves the right upon issuing any variances to inspect the
premises to ensure compliance with the provisions of this section or any
conditions additionally imposed. Violation of an issued permit or of the
provisions of this section shall be grounds for review of the variance by the
Board of Adjustment.
   (G)   Expiration of variance. Unless the Board of Adjustment specifically
approves a different time when action is officially taken on the request,
approvals which have been issued under the provisions of this section shall
expire without further action by the Planning Commission or the Board, within 1
year of the date of approval unless the applicant has substantially commenced
the authorized use or improvement, or unless within 30 days prior to the
expiration of the variance the applicant has petitioned for a time extension by
completing and submitting a request for an extension, including the renewal fee
as established by City Council resolution. Such extension request shall be
submitted in writing and shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete or utilize the approval permitted in the variance. A request for an
extension not exceeding 1 year shall be subject to the review and approval of
the Board. Should a second extension of time or any extension of time longer
than 1 year be requested by the applicant, it shall be presented to the
Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the Board for a decision.
   (H)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of a variance as required by this section and prior to
the issuing of any building permits or the commencing of any work, the
applicant as may be applicable, shall guarantee to the city the completion of
all private exterior amenities as shown on the approved site plan and as
required by the variance approval. The guarantee shall be made by means of a
site improvement performance agreement and a financial guarantee as specified
in §
153.999 of this chapter.
   (I)   Certificate of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for a
variance, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that there are
no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city utility
fees due upon the parcel of land to which the variance application relates.
   (J)   Shoreland management overlay district. A variance may not circumvent
the general purposes and intent of the Shoreland Management Overlay District.
The Commission of the Department of Natural Resources or its assigned agent
shall be notified in writing and the notice shall be postmarked at least 10
days in advance of the public hearing of any request of a variance included
within the Shoreland Management Area. Notice of final action for any of the
applications identified above shall be sent to the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources and postmarked within 10 days of final action.
(Ord. 2011-8-1, passed 8-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2022-5-7, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 153.189 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   General. Whenever this chapter requires a conditional use permit, an
application therefor in writing shall be filed with the City Clerk. Refer to
the R-1, R-2, and the like sections for eligible permits.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the
city with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining the suitability of
certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health and safety and
to require conditions related to the establishment of said use necessary to
carry out the intent and purposes of the title. In make this determination,
whether or not the conditional use is to be allowed, the city may consider the
nature of the adjoining land or buildings, the effect upon traffic into and
from the premises, or on any adjoining roads, and all other or further factors
as the city shall deem a prerequisite of consideration in determining the
effect of the use on the general welfare, public health and safety.
      (1)   Application and procedure. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application
for a conditional use permit shall be approved or denied within 60 days from
the date of its official and complete submission unless extended by the city
pursuant to statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional
city requirements are as follows:
         (a)   A pre-application meeting may be required by city staff at which
the appropriate application procedures, requirements, and applicable provisions
relating to the request will be reviewed and explained.
         (b)   Request for conditional use permit, as provided in this title,
shall be filed with the City Clerk on an official application form. Unless
modified by the City Clerk, such application shall be accompanied by a fee as
set forth in the current city fee schedule. Supporting materials, as outlined
in §
153.192, as determined by the Zoning Administrator as applicable to be
necessary for the complete and clear definition and understanding of the
request. The request shall be considered as being officially submitted when all
the information requirements are satisfied. In cases where an application is
judged to be incomplete, the City Clerk shall notify the applicant, in writing,
within 10 days of the date of submission.
         (c)   Upon receipt of said application, the City Clerk shall set a
public hearing following proper hearing notification. The Planning Commission
shall conduct the hearing, report its findings and make recommendations to the
City Council. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property
description, description of request and property location, and be published in
the official newspaper at least 10 days prior to the hearing. Written
notification of said hearing shall be mailed at least 10 days prior to all
owners of land within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in question.
         (d)   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this section.
         (e)   The City Clerk shall instruct the appropriate staff persons to
prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation on the action to the City Council.
         (f)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible adverse effects
of the proposed conditional use and what additional requirements may be
necessary to reduce any adverse effects, and shall make a recommendation to the
City Council within the guidelines as mandated by state statutes. At a minimum,
the Planning Commission, in its judgment, shall consider at a minimum the
following standards as it would apply to the particular use at the proposed
location.
            1.   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the official City Comprehensive Plan.
            2.   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and
future land uses of the area.
            3.   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards
contained in the city code.
            4.   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public
services and will not overburden the city's service capacity.
            5.   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities
of streets serving the property.
         (g)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority
to request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. This information is to be
declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent sections of this title. Failure on the part of the applicant to
supply all necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the
request.
         (h)   The Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and
recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request as they deem
necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this title. The recommendation
shall be in writing and accompanied by the report and recommendation of the
city staff, and shall be entered in and made part of the permanent written
record of the City Council meeting.
         (i)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use permit until
the Planning Commission has held a public hearing on the request. The City
Council shall act upon the conditional use permit within 60 days from the date
of submission of a complete application, unless an extension has been provided,
pursuant to M.S. § 15.99.
         (j)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall have the option to set
and hold a public hearing if deemed necessary, shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
         (k)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving the
report and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the City
Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process and
thus the final recommendation of the City Council may differ from that of the
Planning Commission, the City Council may, before taking final action, refer
the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The City
Council shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only one time on a singular action.
         (l)   Approval of a request shall require passage by a majority vote
of the City Council.
         (m)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of applications and
conditional use permits. A certified copy of any approved conditional use
permit shall be filed with the County Recorder.
         (n)   Whenever an application for a conditional use permit has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for the
conditional use permit affecting substantially the same property shall not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for at least 6
months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent application affecting
substantially the same property shall likewise not be considered again by the
Planning Commission or City Council for an additional 6 months from the date of
the second denial unless a decision to reconsider such matter is made by not
less than 2/3 vote of the full City Council.
      (2)   Information requirement. The information required for all
conditional use permit applications shall be as specified in §
153.192 (Information Requirement) of this chapter.
      (3)   General performance standards.  As may be applicable, the
evaluation of any proposed conditional use permit request shall be subject to
and include conditions which are considered necessary to meet the performance
standards and criteria of this title and to protect the best interests of the
surrounding area or the city as a whole. The general performance standards and
criteria may include but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   The use and the site in question shall be served by a street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate the type and volume of traffic which would
be generated and adequate right-of-way shall be provided.
         (b)   The site design for access and parking shall minimize internal
as well as external traffic conflicts and shall be in compliance with this
section.
         (c)   If applicable, a pedestrian circulation system shall be clearly
defined and appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachment
by parked or moving vehicles.
         (d)   Adequate off-street parking and off-street loading shall be
provided in compliance with this section.
         (e)   Loading areas and drive-thru facilities shall be positioned so
as to minimize internal site access problems and maneuvering conflicts, to
avoid visual or noise impacts on any "adjacent" residential use or district,
and provided in compliance with this section.
         (f)   Whenever a nonresidential use "is adjacent to" a residential use
or district, a buffer area with screening and landscaping shall be provided in
compliance with this section.
         (g)   General site screening and landscaping shall be provided in
compliance with this section.
         (h)   All exterior lighting shall be so directed so as not to cast
glare toward or onto the public right-of-way or neighboring residential uses or
districts, and shall be in compliance with this section.
         (i)   Potential exterior noise and odor generated by the use shall be
identified and mitigation measures as may be necessary shall be imposed to
ensure compliance with
Chapters 95 and
153 of the city code.
         (j)   The site drainage system as well as availability and
compatibility of utilities shall be subject to the review and approval of the
City Engineer.
         (k)   The architectural appearance and functional design of the
building and site shall not be so dissimilar to the existing or potential
buildings and area so as to cause a blighting influence. All sides of the
principal and accessory structures are to have essentially the same or
coordinated, harmonious exterior finish materials and treatment in accordance
with this section.
         (l)   Provisions shall be made for daily litter control, an interior
location for recycling, and trash handling and storage or an outdoor, enclosed
receptacle area shall be provided in compliance with this section.
         (m)   All signs and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with this section.
         (n)   The use and site shall be in compliance with any federal, state
or county law or regulation that is applicable and any related permits shall be
obtained and documented to the city.
         (o)   Any applicable business licenses mandated by this code are
approved and obtained.
         (p)   The hours of operation may be restricted when there is judged to
be an incompatibility with a residential use or district.
         (q)   The use complies with all applicable performance standards of
the zoning district in which it is located and where applicable, any non-
conformity shall be eliminated.
         (r)   All additional conditions pertaining to a specific site are
subject to change when the Council, upon investigation in relation to a formal
request, finds that the general welfare and public betterment can be served as
well or better by modifying or expanding the conditions set forth herein.
      (4)   Enforcement.  Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall
be in accordance with this section. The city reserves the right upon issuing
any conditional use permits to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this section or any conditions additionally imposed.
Violation of an issued permit or of the provisions of this section shall be
grounds for revocation and denial of future permit applications or
modifications.
      (5)   Revocation. The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City
Council may direct, the revocation of any conditional use permit for cause upon
determination that the authorized conditional use is not in conformance with
the conditions of the permit or is in continued violation of this title, city
codes, or other applicable regulations. The City Council or Planning Commission
shall initiate an application and the City Clerk shall notify the responsible
person that they have an opportunity to show why the permit should not be
revoked. The application shall be processed and considered pursuant to this
section. The City Clerk shall provide the responsible person a copy of the
proceedings and findings of the Planning Commission and City Council.
      (6)   Permit modifications.  Holders of a conditional use permit may
propose modifications to the permit at any time. No changes in the approved
plans or scope of the conditional use shall, however, be undertaken without
prior approval of those changes by the City Council. Conditional use permit
modifications may include, but shall not be limited to, hours of operation,
number of employees, expansion of structures and/or premises, operational
modifications resulting in increased traffic, and the like. Permit
modifications shall be further subject to and processed according to this
section and shall be subject to all requirements and standards of this section.
      (7)   Expiration.  Unless the City Council specifically approves a
different time when action is officially taken on the request, conditional use
permits which have been issued under the provisions of this section shall
expire without further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council
within 1 year of the date of approval unless the applicant has substantially
commenced the authorized use or improvement, or unless within 30 days prior to
the expiration of the conditional use permit the applicant has petitioned for a
time extension by completing and submitting a request for an extension,
including the renewal fee as established by City Council resolution. Such
extension request shall be submitted in writing and shall state facts showing a
good faith attempt to complete or utilize the approval permitted in the
conditional use permit. A request for an extension not exceeding 1 year shall
be subject to the review and approval of the City Council. Should a second
extension of time or any extension of time longer than 1 year be requested by
the applicant, it shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation and to the City Council for a decision. If the use for which a
conditional use permit is issued is discontinued for a period of 1 year, the
conditional use permit shall automatically lapse without further action of the
City Council.
      (8)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Prior to City Council consideration of a conditional use permit request, the
applicant, as may be applicable, shall guarantee to the city the completion of
all improvements as shown on the approved site plan and as required by the
conditional use permit approval. The guarantee shall be made by means of a site
improvement performance agreement and a financial guarantee as specified in
this chapter.
      (9)   Certification of taxes paid.  Prior to approving an application for
a conditional use permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city
that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or
city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the conditional use
permit application relates.
      (10)   Shoreland Management Overlay District.  The Commission of the
Department of Natural Resources or its assigned agent shall be notified in
writing and said notice shall be postmarked at least 10 days in advance of the
public hearing of any request of a conditional use permit included within the
Shoreland Management Area. Notice of final action for any of the applications
identified above shall be sent to the Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources and postmarked within 10 days of final action.
   (C)   Referral to Planning Commission. The application and related file
shall be referred to the Planning Commission for study concerning the effect of
the proposed use on the Comprehensive Plan and on the character and development
of the neighborhood.
   (D)   Public hearing. Within 30 days after filing a complete application, a
date shall be set for a public hearing thereon by the Planning Commission.
Notice of any such hearing shall be mailed not less than 10 days before the
date of the hearing to the applicant and to each property owner situated wholly
or in part within 350 feet of the property to which the conditional use permit
relates, insofar as the names and addresses can be determined from the Clerk
from records available to the public. The Planning Commission shall transmit
the findings to the Council within 60 days from the date of filing the
application.
   (E)   Action by Council.
      (1)   The Council shall consider the advice and recommendation of the
Planning Commission and the effects of due proposed use upon the health,
safety, and welfare of the city and of the occupants of the immediate
neighborhood. Should the Council find that the proposed use when conducted
under the specified conditions will be detrimental to the health, safety, or
general welfare, they may grant a conditional use permit specifying the
conditions for location and use requested. The Council may also attach
additional conditions as deemed necessary to the permit, to reflect any
conditions peculiar to the site in question.
      (2)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit
shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of such permit
and of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
      (3)   A periodic review of the permit and its conditions shall be
maintained. The permit shall be issued for a particular user and not for a
particular person or firm.
   (F)   Termination of permit. A violation of any condition set forth in a
conditional use permit shall be a violation of this chapter and automatically
terminate the permit. A conditional use permit issued hereunder shall become
void 1 year after it was granted unless made use of.
   (G)   Fees. Any person filing an application for a conditional use permit
shall pay a conditional use permit application fee and a conditional use permit
city cost reimbursement deposit as set forth in the city fee schedule before
the application is deemed filed with the city and before any work on the
application may commence. The application fee is payable at the time the
application is filed with the City Clerk and is not refundable. The city cost
reimbursement deposit is also payable at the time the application is filed with
the City Clerk and is refundable only in the amount of the deposit which
exceeds the costs incurred by the city related to the application. As city
costs, the applicant shall pay all engineering, technical, legal, and
administrative costs incurred by the city in processing and reviewing the
application. The applicant shall execute a written agreement in a form approved
by the City Attorney requiring the applicant to reimburse the city for all city
costs identified in this division (G).
(Prior Code, § 908.05) (Am. Ord. 119, passed 11-12-1997; Am. Ord. 2001-6-1,
passed - -2001; Am. Ord. 2007-1-3, passed 1-9-2007; Am. Ord. 2012-9-1, passed
9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 2018-9-5, passed 9-11-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-11-1, passed 11-
10-2020; Am. Ord. 2022-5-8, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 153.190 INTERIM USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of allowing interim use
permits is:
      (1)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction.
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable to the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district.
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan provided that
said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
   (B)   Application and procedure. Uses defined as “interim uses” shall be
processed according to the standards and procedures for a conditional use
permit as established by this section.
   (C)   Information requirement. The information required for all interim use
permit applications shall be as specified in §
153.192 (Information Requirement) of this chapter.
   (D)   General standards. An interim use shall comply with the following:
      (1)   The use will conform to the applicable general performance
standards of this section.
      (2)   The proposed use will not be injurious to the surrounding
neighborhood or otherwise harm the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      (3)   The proposed use will not create an excessive burden on parks,
streets, and other public facilities.
      (4)   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified
with certainty.
      (5)   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs to the
public.
      (6)   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use.
   (E)   Enforcement. Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be in
accordance with this section. The city reserves the right upon issuing any
interim use permits to inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this section or any conditions additionally imposed. Violation of
an issued permit of the provisions of this section shall be grounds for
termination of the interim use permit.
   (F)   Termination. An interim use shall terminate on the happening of any of
the following events, whichever occurs first:
      (1)   The date or event stated in the permit.
      (2)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued.
      (3)   Upon change in the city’s zoning regulations rendering the use
nonconforming.
   (G)   Expiration. Unless the City Council specifically approves a different
time when action is officially taken on the request, interim use permits which
have been issued under the provisions of this section shall expire without
further action by the Planning Commission or the City Council within 1 year of
the date of approval unless the applicant has substantially commenced the
authorized use or improvement, or unless within 30 days prior to the expiration
of the interim use permit the applicant has petitioned for a time extension by
completing and submitting a request for an extension, including the renewal fee
as established by City Council resolution. Such extension request shall be
submitted in writing and shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete or utilize the approval permitted in the interim use permit. A request
for an extension not exceeding 1 year shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Council. Should a second extension of time of any
extension of time longer than 1 year be requested by the applicant, it shall be
presented to the Planning Commission for a recommendation and to the City
Council for a decision.
   (H)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of an interim use permit as required by this section and
prior to the issuing of any building permits or the commencing of any work, the
applicant, as may be applicable, shall guarantee to the city the completion of
all improvements as shown on the approved site plan and as required by the
interim use permit approval. The guarantee shall be made by means of a site
improvement performance agreement and a financial guarantee as specified in
this chapter (Site Performance Agreement).
   (I)   Certification of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for an
interim use permit, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that
there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city
utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the interim use permit
application relates.
   (J)   Shoreland Management Overlay District. The Commission of the
Department of Natural Resources or its assigned agent shall be notified in
writing and said notice shall be postmarked at least 10 days in advance of the
public hearing of any request of an interim use permit included within the
Shoreland Management Overlay District. Notice of final action for any of the
applications identified above shall be sent to the Commissioner of the
Department of Natural Resources and postmarked within 10 days of final action.
(Ord. 2009-5-1, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord.
2016-11-2, passed 11-9-2016; Am. Ord. 2023-6-2, passed 6-13-2023)
§ 153.191 AMENDMENT OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Initiate. The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own
motion, initiate a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this
title. The procedural requirements of this chapter shall not apply to such
proposed amendments initiated by the city except to the extent required by
Minnesota State Statute. Any person owning real estate within the city may
initiate a request to amend the text or district boundaries of this title so as
to affect the said real estate.
   (B)   Application and procedure. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application
for an amendment shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of
its official and complete submission unless extended by the city pursuant to
statue or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city
requirements are as follows:
      (1)   A pre-application meeting may be required by city staff at which
the appropriate application procedures, requirements and applicable provisions
relating to the request will be reviewed and explained.
      (2)   Request for amendments (text and map) shall be filed with the City
Clerk on an official application form. Such application shall be accompanied by
a fee as set forth in the current city fee schedule. Supporting materials, as
outlined in §
153.192, as determined by the Zoning Administrator as applicable to be
necessary for the complete and clear definition and understanding of the
request. The request shall be considered as being officially submitted when all
the information requirements are complied with as determined by the City Clerk.
In cases when an application is judged to be incomplete, the City Clerk shall
notify the applicant, in writing, within 10 days from the date of submission.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a complete application, as determined by staff
review, and following preliminary staff analysis of the application and
request, the City Clerk, when appropriate, shall set a public hearing following
proper hearing notification. The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing,
report its findings and make recommendations to the City Council. Notice of the
hearing shall consist of a legal property description, description of request
and a general description of the property location, and be published in the
official newspaper at least 10 days prior to the hearing. Written notification
of the hearing shall be mailed at least 10 days prior to all owners of land
within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in question, if notification is
required by state statute.
      (4)   Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this title.
      (5)   The City Clerk shall instruct the appropriate staff persons to
prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation of action to the City Council.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the
proposed amendment. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
following factors:
         (a)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the
specific policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with
the Official City Comprehensive Plan.
         (b)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and
future land uses of the area.
         (c)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards
contained in this code.
         (d)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public
services and will not overburden the city’s service capacity.
         (e)   Traffic generation by the proposed use is within capabilities of
streets serving the property.
      (7)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors. This information is to be
declared necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all
pertinent chapters of this title. Failure on the part of the applicant to apply
all necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (8)   The Planning Commission shall, as appropriate, make findings of
fact and shall recommend approval or denial of the request. The recommendation
shall be accompanied by the report and recommendation of the city staff.
      (9)   The City Council shall not act upon an amendment until the Planning
Commission has held a public hearing on the request. The City Council shall act
upon the amendment within 60 days from the date of submission of a complete
application, unless an extension has been provided, pursuant to M.S. § 15.99.
      (10)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving the
reports and recommendations of the Planning Commission and city staff, the City
Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process and
thus the final recommendation of the City Council may differ from that of the
Planning Commission, the City Council may, before taking final action, refer
the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The City
Council shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only 1 time on a singular action.
      (11)   Approval of an amendment shall require a majority vote of all
members of the City Council. Amendments which change all or part of the
existing classification of a zoning district from residential to either
commercial or industrial require a 2/3 majority vote of all members of the City
Council.
      (12)   The amendment shall not become effective until such time as the
City Council approves an ordinance reflecting the amendment and the ordinance
is published in the official newspaper.
      (13)   Whenever an application for an amendment has been considered and
denied by the City Council, a similar application for the amendment affecting
substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the Planning
Commission or City Council for at least 6 months from the date of its denial;
and a subsequent application affecting substantially the same property shall
likewise not be considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for
an additional 6 months from the date of the second denial unless a decision to
reconsider such matter is made by not less than 2/3 majority vote of the full
City Council.
   (C)   Certificate of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for map
amendment, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that there are
no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city utility
fees due upon the parcel of land to which the map amendment application
relates.
(Prior Code, § 908.06) (Am. Ord. 119, passed 11-12-1997; Am. Ord. 2001-6-1,
passed - -2001; Am. Ord. 2007-1-3, passed 1-9-2007; Am. Ord. 2009-5-1, passed
5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 2022-5-13, passed 5-
10-2022)
§ 153.192 INFORMATION REQUIREMENT.
   The information required for all site plan applications generally consists
of the following items, and shall be submitted unless waived by the Zoning
Administrator. Applications shall be accompanied by two standard plat sizes
measuring 20 x 30 and two 11 x 17 copies, mylar (in case of final plat), and
digital file.
   (A)   Site boundaries, buildings, structures and other improvements shall be
identified on-site with a certificate of survey, prepared and signed by a
Minnesota licensed land surveyor. The certificate of survey shall have been
signed and prepared within the last 10 years from the date of submittal, unless
the property pins are not found and established, in which case a new
certificate of survey shall be required, depicting the following:
      (1)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at 1 inch equals 50 feet (1"
= 50') or less;
      (2)   North point indication;
      (3)   Existing boundaries with lot dimension and area;
      (4)   Existing site improvements;
      (5)   All encroachments;
      (6)   Easements of record;
      (7)   Legal description of the property; and
      (8)   Ponds, lakes, springs, rivers, delineated wetlands or other
waterways bordering on or running through the subject property.
   (B)   A site plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey as a
base for the site in question, depicting the following:
      (1)   Name and address of developer/owner;
      (2)   Name and address of architect/designer;
      (3)   Date of plan preparation;
      (4)   Dates and description of all revisions;
      (5)   Name of project or development; and
      (6)   All proposed improvements, including:
         (a)   Required and proposed setbacks;
         (b)   Location, setback and dimensions of all proposed buildings and
structures;
         (c)   Location of all adjacent buildings located within 100 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property in question;
         (d)   Location, number, dimensions, and setbacks of proposed parking
spaces and drive aisles;
         (e)   Location, number, and dimensions of proposed loading spaces;
         (f)   Location, width, and setbacks of all curb cuts and driveways;
         (g)   Vehicular circulation;
         (h)   Sidewalks, walkways, trails;
         (i)   Location and type of all proposed lighting, including details of
all proposed fixtures;
         (j)   Location of recreation and service areas;
         (k)   Location of rooftop equipment, exterior heating, ventilation and
air conditioning equipment and proposed screening;
         (l)   Provisions for outdoor storage and disposal of waste, garbage,
and recyclables, including details for screening exterior trash/recycling
enclosures;
         (m)   Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains and
proposed service connections; and
         (n)   Location of proposed fire lanes and fire hydrants.
   (C)   Grading/stormwater drainage plan, utilizing a copy of the current
certificate of survey as a base for the site in question, prepared and signed
by a Minnesota licensed engineer, depicting the following:
      (1)   Existing contours a t2-foot intervals (may be prepared by a
Minnesota licensed surveyor);
      (2)   Proposed grade elevations at 2-foot maximum intervals;
      (3)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations;
      (4)   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of castings, and
type of materials;
      (5)   Spot elevations (may be prepared by a Minnesota licensed surveyor);
      (6)   Proposed driveway grades;
      (7)   Surface water ponding and treatment areas; and
      (8)   Erosion control measures.
   (D)   Landscaping plan, utilizing a copy of the current certificate of
survey as a base for the site in question, depicting the following:
      (1)   Planting schedule (table) containing:
         (a)   Symbols;
         (b)   Quantities;
         (c)   Common names.
         (d)   Botanical names;
         (e)   Sizes of plant material;
         (f)   Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped, potted, and
the like); and
         (g)   Special planting instructions;
      (2)   Location, type and size of all existing significant trees to be
removed or preserved;
      (3)   Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature crown
diameter or spread for local hardiness zone);
      (4)   Typical sections with details of fences, tie walls, planter boxes,
tot lots, picnic areas, berms and the like;
      (5)   Typical sections with details of landscape islands, planter beds,
and foundation plantings with identification of materials used;
      (6)   Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored through
the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques;
      (7)   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective areas
in square feet;
      (8)   Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any;
      (9)   Where landscape or manmade materials are used to provide screening
from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-through section shall be
provided showing the perspective of the site from the neighboring property at
the property line elevation; and
      (10)   Other existing or proposed conditions which could be expected to
affect landscaping.
   (E)   Other plans and information as required by the Zoning Administrator
including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory buildings
(type, color, and materials used in all external surfaces);
      (2)   “Typical” floor plan and “typical” room plan drawn to scale with a
summary of square footage for each use or activity;
      (3)   Fire protection plan;
      (4)   The extent of any proposed modifications, if any, to land within
any overlay districts of this chapter;
      (5)   Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question;
      (6)   Vicinity map showing the subject property in reference to nearby
highways or major street intersections;
      (7)   Sound source control plan;
      (8)   Lighting plan;
      (9)   When required, evidence of completion of National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permitting program; and
      (10)   If applicable, evidence of compliance with federal, state and
local pollution and nuisance laws and regulations, including, but not limited
to glare, smoke, dust, odors and noise. The burden of proof for compliance with
appropriate standards shall lie with the applicant.
(Ord. 2011-8-1, passed 8-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2022-5-2, passed 5-10-2022)  Penalty,
see §
153.999
§ 153.193 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a formal site
plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of
site design and construction standards consistent with the requirements of this
title.
   (B)   Exceptions to review. Except in those cases specifically cited within
this title, the following shall be exempted from the foregoing requirements of
this section:
      (1)   Agricultural uses.
      (2)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (3)   Two-family attached dwellings.
   (C)   Sketch Plan.  
      (1)   Prior to the formulation of a site plan, applicants may present a
sketch plan to the City Clerk prior to filing a formal application. The plan
shall be conceptual but shall be drawn to scale with topography of a contour
interval not greater than 2 feet and may include the following:
         (a)   The proposed site with reference to existing development,
topography, and drainage conditions on adjacent properties, at least to within
200 feet.
         (b)   Natural features.
         (c)   General location of existing and proposed structures including
signs.
         (d)   Tentative access, circulation and street arrangements, both
public and private.
         (e)   Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open space,
walkways, landscaping, and the like.
         (f)   General location of parking areas.
         (g)   Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage.
         (h)   A statement showing the proposed density of the project with the
method of calculating the density also shown.
         (i)   The extent of any proposed modifications, if any, to land within
any overlay districts as established by this section.
         (j)   Other items as may be deemed necessary by city staff.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall have the authority to refer the sketch plan to
the Planning Commission and/or City Council for discussion, review, and
informal comment. Any opinions or comments provided to the applicant by the
City Clerk, Planning Commission, and/or City Council shall be considered
advisory only and shall not constitute a binding decision on the request.
   (D)   Procedure. Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, an application for site plan
approval shall be approved or denied within 60 days from the date of its
official and complete submission unless extended by the city pursuant to
statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. Additional city
requirements are as follows:
      (1)   Filing of request.  Request for site plan approval, as provided
within this chapter, shall be filed with the City Clerk on an official
application form. The application shall be accompanied by a fee set forth in
the current city fee schedule. The application shall also be accompanied by
detailed written and graphic materials, the number and size as prescribed by
the City Clerk, fully explaining the proposed change, development, or use. The
request shall be considered as being officially submitted and complete when the
applicant has complied with all specified information requirements. In cases
where an application is judged to be incomplete, the City Clerk shall notify
the applicant, in writing, within 10 days of the date of submission.
      (2)   Proof of ownership or authorization. The applicant shall supply
proof of tile and the legal description of the property for which the site plan
approval is requested, consisting of an abstract of title and as applicable
supply document authorization from the owner(s) of the property in question to
proceed with the requested site plan application.
      (3)   Certificate of taxes paid. Prior to approving an application for a
site plan review, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that
there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city
utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the site plan review
application relates.
      (4)   Meeting with City Clerk and/or staff.  The applicant or a
representative thereof shall meet with the City Clerk and/or city staff in
order to present information and answer questions concerning the proposed
requests.
      (5)   Reviewing the request. Upon receipt of the application, the City
Clerk shall have the option of forwarding the application to the Planning
Commission and City Council for review and approval or approve the request
administratively. If the request is forwarded, the Planning Commission shall
review the request at a regular scheduled meeting and report its findings and
make recommendations to the City Council.
      (6)   Technical reports. The City Clerk shall instruct the appropriate
staff persons to prepare technical reports where appropriate, and provide
general assistance in conducting an evaluation of the request.
      (7)   Evaluation criteria. City staff and Planning Commission shall
evaluate the proposed site and building plan based upon compliance with the
City Comprehensive Plan, provisions of this title, and other applicable titles
of the city code.
      (8)   Additional information. The Planning Commission and city staff
shall have the authority to request additional information from the applicant
concerning operational factors or to retain expert assistance with the consent
and at the expense of the applicant concerning operational factors. This
information is to be declared necessary to evaluate the request and/or
establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent sections of this
title. Failure on the part of the applicant to supply all necessary supportive
information may be grounds for denial of the request.
      (9)   City Council review.  
         (a)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and the city staff, the City Council shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
         (b)   Subject to limitations of M.S. § 15.99, if, upon receiving said
report and recommendations of the Planning Commission and the city staff, the
City Council finds that specific inconsistencies exist in the review process
and thus the final recommendation of the City Council may differ from that of
the Planning Commission, the City Council may, before taking final action,
refer the matter back to the Planning Commission for further consideration. The
City Council shall provide the Planning Commission with a written statement
detailing the specific reasons for referral. This procedure shall be followed
only 1 time on a singular action.
      (10)   Approval. The approval of a site plan application shall be
determined by 1 of the following:
         (a)   If forwarded by the City Clerk to the Planning Commission and
City Council for review and approval, the site plan application shall require
approval by a simple majority vote of the City Council.
         (b)   If reviewed by the City Clerk, the City Clerk shall reach a
decision on the request within 60 days after the site plan was officially
submitted. In addition to other plan requirements outlined in this title, site
plans will be required and shall be submitted to and approved by the city prior
to the issuance of any building or administrative permit.
      (11)   The City Clerk shall keep a record of applications and site plan
approvals.
   (E)   Information requirement. The information required for all site plan
applications generally consists of the following items, and shall be submitted
unless waived by the City Clerk.
      (1)   Site boundaries, buildings, structures, and other improvements
shall be identified on-site with a certificate of survey, prepared and signed
by a Minnesota licensed land surveyor. The certificate of survey shall have
been signed and prepared within the last 10 years from the date of submittal,
unless the property pins are not found and established, in which case a new
certificate of survey shall be required, depicting the following:
         (a)   Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at 1 inch equals 50 feet
or less.)
         (b)   North point indication.
         (c)   Existing boundaries with lot dimension and area.
         (d)   Existing site improvements.
         (e)   All encroachments.
         (f)   Easements of record.
         (g)   Legal description of the property.
         (h)   Ponds, lakes, springs, river, delineated wetlands or other
waterways bordering on or running through the subject property.
      (2)   A site plan utilizing a copy of the current certificate of survey
as a case for the site in question, depicting the following:
         (a)   Name and address of developer/owner.
         (b)   Name and address of architect/designer.
         (c)   Date of plan preparation.
         (d)   Dates and description of all revisions.
         (e)   Name of project or development.
         (f)   All proposed improvements, including:
            1.   Required and proposed setbacks.
            2.   Location, setback and dimensions of all proposed buildings and
structures.
            3.   Location of all adjacent buildings located within 100 feet of
the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
            4.   Location, number, dimensions, and setbacks of proposed parking
spaces and drive aisles.
            5.   Location, number, and dimensions of proposed loading spaces.
            6.   Location, width, and setbacks of all curb cuts and driveways.
            7.   Vehicular circulation.
            8.   Sidewalks, walkways, trails.
            9.   Location and type of all proposed lighting, including details
of all proposed fixtures.
            10.   Location of recreation and service areas.
            11.   Location of rooftop equipment, exterior heating, ventilation
and air conditioning equipment and proposed screening.
            12.   Provisions for outdoor storage and disposal of waste,
garbage, and recyclables, including details for screening exterior trash/
recycling enclosures.
            13.   Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains
and proposed service connections.
            14.   Location of proposed fire lanes and fire hydrants.
      (3)   Grading/stormwater drainage plan, utilizing a copy of the current
certificate of surveys as a base for the site in question, prepared and signed
by a Minnesota licensed engineer, depicting the following:
         (a)   Existing contours at 2 foot intervals (may be prepared by a
Minnesota licensed surveyor).
         (b)   Proposed grade elevations at 2 foot maximum intervals.
         (c)   Drainage plan, including the configuration of drainage areas and
calculations.
         (d)   Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of castings,
and type of materials.
         (e)   Spot elevations (may be prepared by a Minnesota licensed
surveyor).
         (f)   Proposed driveway grades.
         (g)   Surface water ponding and treatment areas.
         (h)   Erosion control measures.
      (4)   Landscaping plan, utilizing a copy of the current certificate of
survey as a base for the site in question, depicting the following:
         (a)   Planting schedule (table) containing:
            1.   Symbols.
            2.   Quantities.
            3.   Common names.
            4.   Botanical names.
            5.   Sizes of plant material.
            6.   Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped, potted,
and the like).
            7.   Special planting instructions.
         (b)   Location, type and size of all existing significant trees to be
removed or preserved.
         (c)   Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature
crown diameter or spread for local hardiness zone).
         (d)   Typical sections with details of fences, tie walls, planter
boxes, tot lots, picnic areas, berms and the like.
         (e)   Typical sections with details of landscape islands, planter
beds, and foundation plantings with identification of materials used.
         (f)   Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored
through the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques.
         (g)   Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective
areas in square feet.
         (h)   Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any.
         (i)   Where landscape or manmade materials are used to provide
screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross-through section
shall be provided showing the perspective of the site from the neighboring
property at the property line elevation.
         (j)   Other existing or proposed conditions which could be expected to
affect landscaping.
      (5)   Other plans and information as required by the City Clerk
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory
buildings (type, color, and materials used in all external surfaces).
         (b)   "Typical" floor plan and "typical" room plan drawn to scale with
a summary of square footage for each use or activity.
         (c)   Fire protection plan.
         (d)   The extent of any proposed modifications, if any, to land within
any overlay districts, as established by this section.
         (e)   Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question.
         (f)   Vicinity map showing the subject property in reference to nearby
highways or major street intersections.
         (g)   Sound source control plan.
         (h)   Lighting plan.
         (i)   When required, evidence of completion of National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permitting program.
         (j)   If applicable, evidence of compliance with federal, state and
local pollution and nuisance laws and regulations, including, but not limited
to glare, smoke, dust, odors and noise. The burden of proof for compliance with
appropriate standards shall lie with the applicant.
      (6)   All subdivisions under this section shall comply with the sanitary
sewer odor and corrosion control regulations as set forth in §
52.61 of this city code.
   (F)   Plan agreements. All site plans officially submitted to the city shall
be treated as a formal agreement between the applicant/owner and the city. Once
approved, no changes, modifications or alterations shall be made to any plan
detail, standard or specification without prior submission of a plan
modification request to the city for their review and approval.
   (G)   Plan modifications. An amended site plan involving major changes shall
be applied for and administered in a manner similar to that required for a new
site plans.
   (H)   Site improvement performance agreement and financial guarantee.
Following the approval of the site plan review required by this chapter and
before issuance of a building permit, the applicant, as determined to be
necessary by the City Clerk, shall guarantee to the city the completion of all
improvements as shown on the approved site plan and as required by the site
plan approval. This guarantee shall be made by means of a site improvement
performance agreement and a financial guarantee as specified in this chapter
(Site Performance Agreement).
   (I)   Lapse of approval.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the City Clerk, the site plan
approval shall become null and void 1 year after the date of approval, unless
the property owner or applicant has substantially started the construction of
any building, structure, addition or alteration, or use requested as part of
the approved plan. The property owner or applicant shall have the right to
submit an application for time extension in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   In making its determination on whether an applicant has made a good
faith attempt to utilize the site plan approval, the City Clerk shall consider
such factors as the type, design, and size of the proposed construction, any
applicable restrictions on financing, or special and/or unique circumstances
beyond the control of the applicant which have caused the delay.
      (3)   The request for an extension of site plan approval shall be
determined by the City Clerk within 15 days from the receipt of a complete
request.
   (J)   Building codes. The review and approval of site improvements pursuant
to the requirements of city adopted building and fire codes shall be in
addition to the site plan review process established under this chapter. The
site plan approval process does not imply compliance with the requirements of
these building and fire codes.
   (K)   Enforcement. Enforcement of the provisions shall be regulated by this
section. The city reserves the right upon issuing any site plan approvals to
inspect the premises to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter
or any conditions additionally imposed. Upon official documentation of a
violation of the approved site plan, any issued permit or of the provisions of
this section, the city shall have the authority to order the stopping of any
and all site improvement activities. Any violation shall also be grounds for
denial of future permit applications.
(Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012; Am. Ord. 2022-5-9, passed 5-10-2022)
§ 153.194 SITE PERFORMANCE AGREEMENT.
   Purpose and procedure. Upon approval of conditional use permits, interim use
permits, variances, administrative permits, planned unit developments and site
plan reviews the city may require the applicant to enter into a site
performance agreement prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of
work on the proposed improvements or development. This agreement shall
guarantee conformance and
 
 
 
2012 S-8
 
 
160   Stacy - Land Usage
 
 
compliance with the conditions of the approval, the codes of the city and the
provision of this title. The site performance agreement shall include, without
limitation, the following items and conditions.
 
   (A)   The applicant shall execute the site improvement performance agreement
on forms provided by the city. The agreement shall be approved as to form and
content by the City Attorney and shall define the required work and reflect the
terms of this section and the provisions of this title as to the required
guarantee for the performance of the work by the applicant.
 
   (B)   The required work can include, but is not limited to, private exterior
amenities such as landscaping, private driveways, parking areas, recreational
fields, structures and buildings, drainage systems, water quality ponds,
wetland mitigation, wetland buffers, erosion control, curbing, fences and
screening, and other similar facilities. The required work shall also include
all aspects of a tree preservation plan and reforestation plan, if applicable.
 
   (C)   Financial security.  The applicant may be required to provide
financial security to assure compliance with the agreement and conditions of
the approval. A financial guarantee shall be submitted with the executed site
performance agreement as provided herein:
 
      (1)   Financial guarantees acceptable to the city include cash escrow; an
irrevocable letter of credit; or other financial instruments which provide
equivalent assurance to the city and which are approved by the City Clerk.
 
      (2)   When any instrument submitted as a financial guarantee contains a
provision for an automatic expiration date, after which the instrument may not
be drawn upon, not withstanding the status of the site performance agreement or
of the required work, the expiration date shall be October 31; further, it
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the city in writing, by
certified mail, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration date of the
intention to renew the instrument or to not renew the instrument. If the
instrument is to be renewed, a written notice of extension shall be provided 30
days prior to the expiration date; if the instrument is not to be renewed, and
has not been released by the City Clerk, another acceptable financial guarantee
in the appropriate amount shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the
expiration. The term of any extension shall be approved by the City Clerk. Upon
receipt of an acceptable substitute financial guarantee, the City Clerk may
release the original guarantee.
 
      (3)   The amount of the financial guarantee shall be established by the
City Clerk based upon an itemized estimate of the cost of all required work as
provided by the applicant and reviewed by the City Clerk. A cash escrow or
irrevocable letter of credit shall be in the amount of 125% of the approved
estimated cost. The amount of any other approved financial instrument shall be
determined by the City Clerk.
 
      (4)   At the option of the city, the applicant may submit a separate
financial guarantee for that portion of the required work consisting solely of
landscaping improvements with another financial
 
 
 
2012 S-8
 
 
 
   Zoning Code   161
 
 
guarantee for all other exterior amenities and improvements which comprise the
work. All trees shall be warranted to be alive, of good quality, and disease
free for 12 months from the time of planting. Any subsequent replacement shall
be warranted for 12 months from the time of planting.
 
      (5)   The term of the financial guarantee shall be for the life of the
site improvement performance agreement, and it shall be the responsibility of
the applicant to ensure that a submitted financial guarantee shall continue in
full force and effect until the proposed improvements or development are
completed and the City Clerk or Building Official has issued a certificate of
occupancy indicating compliance with the application approval and Building Code
of the city or a certificate of completion has been issued by the city. Once a
certificate of occupancy or certificate of completion has been issued and all
work has been accepted the financial guarantee shall be released or reduced as
provided in this section.
 
   (D)   The time allowed for completion of the required improvements shall be
set out in the site improvement performance agreement. The agreement and the
financial guarantee shall provide for forfeiture to the city to cure a default
or reimburse the city the cost of enforcement measures. As various portions of
such required work are completed by the applicant, are in compliance with city
requirements, and are approved by the city, the City Clerk may release such
portion of the financial guarantee as is attributable to such completed work.
Landscaping improvements shall not be deemed complete until the city has
verified survivability of all required plantings through one "winter season"
which is defined for the purpose of this section as the period October 31
through April 30.
 
   (E)   The applicant shall notify the City Clerk in writing when all or a
portion of the required improvements have been completed in accordance with the
approved plan and may be inspected. Upon receipt of such notice, the City Clerk
shall be responsible for the inspection of the improvements to determine that
the useful life of all work performed meets the standards for the particular
industry, profession, or material used in the performance of the work. Any
required work failing to meet such standards shall not be deemed to be complete
and the applicant shall be notified in writing as to required corrections. Upon
determination that the work has been completed, including the winter season
survivability of all landscape improvements, a certificate of occupancy and/or
certificate of completer which includes notice of the date of actual completion
shall be given to the applicant and appropriate action to release or to reduce
the amount of the financial guarantee shall be taken by the City Clerk.
 
   (F)   The applicant shall agree in writing to pay any and all reasonable
attorney's fees, consultant fees and related costs incurred by the city to
enforce the terms and conditions of any application approval or provisions of
any performance agreement relating to said permits. The performance agreement
shall also include additional standard conditions as approved from time to time
by the City Council, as well as specific conditions related to the approval.
This chapter is not a limitation on reasonable conditions to be included in any
specific performance agreement.
 
   (G)   The applicant shall agree to indemnify and hold harmless the city, its
agents, employees, representatives and consultants against any and all claims,
demands, losses, damages, and expenses (including attorney's fees) arising out
of, related to or resulting from the applicant's negligent or
 
2012 S-8
 
 
 
162   Stacy - Land Usage
 
 
intentional acts, or any violation of any safety law, regulation or code in the
implementation of the performance agreement, without regard to any inspection
or review made or not made by the city, its agents, employees, representatives
or consultants or failure to take any other prudent precaution.
(Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.998 FEES AND COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Purpose. The costs to the city for receiving, analyzing, processing,
hearing and approving zoning application requests for changes, modifications,
or special consideration under this title, such as requests for map and text
amendments, comprehensive plan amendments, conditional use permits, interim use
permits, variances, administrative permits, site plan reviews and appeals are
considered to be unique to the applicant requesting such consideration, and it
is the intent of this section to provide that all costs of the city incurred by
such requests be borne by the applicant. The reimbursement to the city, in
addition to the base fee, shall be limited to actual costs of the city. Actual
costs shall include, but not be limited to actual costs of the city. Actual
costs shall include, but not be limited to, all administrative, engineering,
legal, planning or other consultant fees or costs paid by the city for other
consultants for expert review of a development application.
   (B)   Schedule of fees. The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees,
charges and expenses, and a collection procedure for building permits, appeal
and other matters pertaining to this title. The schedule of fees shall be
posted in City Hall and may be altered from time to time by ordinance adoption
by the City Council.
   (C)   Base zoning fee. Each applicant shall pay a non-refundable base fee at
the time an application is presented to the city for a zoning request. This fee
is intended to reimburse the city for its reasonable costs for administrative
processing of a development application. If this fee proves to be insufficient
to cover such costs, such additional cost will be charged to the applicant.
   (D)   Cost recovery. In the event additional review by the city and its
consultants is anticipated and/or needed during zoning application review and
the city incurs professional fees such as administrative, legal, engineering,
planning or any other cost, including but not limited to postage and
publication expenses, the applicants shall reimburse the city for those fees.
The city may require a cash escrow, irrevocable letter of credit or other
financial instruments which provides equivalent assurance to the city and which
are approved by the City Clerk according to this chapter for these costs prior
to the final action on the zoning application review. Such cash escrow,
irrevocable letter of credit or other financial instruments shall be in the
form approved by the city or its representative according to this chapter. If
the applicant fails to reimburse the city for costs associated with the zoning
application review, the city shall have the authority to use the provisions of
the M.S. Ch. 429, as amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time, to
assess those costs against any property associated with the zoning application
request, and any such assessment shall, at the time at which taxes are
certified to the County Auditor, be certified for collection in the manner that
other special assessments are so certified.
(Ord. 2012-9-1, passed 9-11-2012)
§ 153.999 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the city. It shall
be unlawful to violate a provision of this chapter. The city may institute in
the name of the City of Stacy any appropriate actions or proceedings against a
violator.
   (B)   Enforcement procedure. For the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter, the first zoning violation notice shall be sent by regular mail and
the second notice will be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to
the property owner of which the violation is taking place. A copy of all zoning
violation notices shall be sent to the City Council, Planning Commission, local
law enforcement agency and City Attorney. All zoning violation notices shall
contain the following information:
      (1)   Description of the violation that is taking place;
      (2)   A picture (if possible) of the violation that is taking place;
      (3)   Legal description (if available), location and/or address of the
property at which the violation is taking place;
      (4)   Identification of the chapter and section of this chapter that is
being violated;
      (5)   Date the violation was discovered;
      (6)   Steps necessary to correct the violation; and
      (7)   Deadline in which the violation must be corrected, which is at the
discretion of the city, but which in no case may be longer than 30 days from
the date the first notice was mailed, weather permitting.
   (C)   Corrections of zoning violation. Upon correction of the violation in
the manner stipulated by the zoning violation notice at any point during this
enforcement process, the city shall take no further enforcement activity with
respect to such specific violation incident.
   (D)   Enforcement remedies. Failure to correct the zoning violation shall
result in the city pursuing enforcement action following notification to the
property owner, with the city having the authority to carry out the following
enforcement remedies.
      (1)   Withhold permits. The city shall have the authority to withhold or
deny any and all permits or city approvals until the violation is corrected to
the satisfaction of the city.
      (2)   Stop work order. The city shall have the authority to issue a stop
work order on the property in violation.
      (3)   Abatement. The city shall have the authority to require that the
violation be abated by completely removing or stopping the item or use which
has been identified in the zoning violation notice. Abatement action by the
city shall not proceed until after a hearing before the City Council.
      (4)   Injunctive relief. The city shall have the authority to seek an
injunction in court to stop any violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Civil remedies. The city shall have the authority to institute
appropriate civil action including injunctive and other equitable processes to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and at the discretion of the civil
court, shall recover reasonable court costs and attorney’s fees that are
incurred due to the enforcement of the subject violation.
      (6)   Assessment. The city shall have the authority to use the provisions
of M.S. Chapter 429, as amended, supplemented or replaced from time to time, to
assess charges against any property in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter and any such assessment shall, at the time at which taxes are
certified to the County Auditor, be certified for collection in the manner that
other special assessments are so certified.
      (7)   Criminal remedies. The city shall have the authority to institute
appropriate misdemeanor action or misdemeanor criminal action for a violation
of this chapter. All violations not otherwise noted shall be petty misdemeanors
with a fine not to exceed $300 per violation. All violations specifically noted
as misdemeanors shall, upon conviction, be punished by fine or imprisonment
pursuant to state law definitions of a misdemeanor in effect upon the date of
conviction.
      (8)   Cumulative remedies. The powers and remedies of this chapter shall
not be individually limited and are not exclusive. Failure to exercise any
remedy shall not be a waiver of that remedy.
(Ord. 2011-8-1, passed 8-9-2011; Am. Ord. 2020-11-2, passed 11-10-2020)
CHAPTER 154: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
154.01   Swimming pool protection
   
154.02   Construction of pools
   
154.03   Swimming pool fencing
   
154.04   Permits
   
154.05   Miscellaneous pool regulations
   
154.06   Existing swimming pools and special purpose pools
§ 154.01 SWIMMING POOL PROTECTION.
   (A)   A swimming pool is any structure intended for swimming or recreational
bathing that contains water over 24 inches deep. This includes in-ground, above
ground and on-ground swimming pools; hot tubs; portable and non-portable spas;
and fixed-in-place wading pools.
   (B)   A special purpose pool is any basin for holding water designed for
human use, 100 square feet or less in water surface area. This definition
includes but is not limited to treatment pools, therapeutic pools, whirlpools,
spa pools, hot tubs and wading pools, and includes any portable version of
these pools.
   (C)   A portable swimming pool is a shallow moveable unit, typically made of
rubber or plastic and installed without permanent support and is 24 inches or
less in depth. Portable pools are exempt from fencing requirements in §
154.03.
(Am. Ord. 2007-6-1, passed 6-26-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-6-2, passed 6-14-2011; Am.
Ord. 2015-1-3, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 154.02 CONSTRUCTION OF POOLS.
   (A)   Pools and special purpose pools shall not be located beneath utility
lines nor over or within 5 feet of underground utility lines of any type.
   (B)   While being constructed, the pool area must be fenced with a portable
fence, such as a snow fence not less than 4 feet in height.
   (C)   No pool or special purpose pool shall be located within any public or
private utility, easement, ingress or egress easement, drainageway, marsh or
other location in which it will represent a threat to the natural environment.
   (D)   Pools are accessory structures as identified by the zoning district
regulations and as such must meet accessory structure setback requirements in §
153.031 of the city code. In addition, pools, except portable pools, may only
be located in rear yards.
(Am. Ord. 2011-6-2, passed 6-14-2011)
§ 154.03 SWIMMING POOL FENCING.
   (A)   All pools, with the exception of portable swimming pools, shall be
completely enclosed by a fence or wall of the non-climbable type, so as to be
impenetrable by toddlers, afford no external handhold or footholds, and be a
minimum of 4 feet in height.
   (B)   All outdoor fence openings or outdoor points of entry into the pool
shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices which shall be no
less than 3 ½ feet in height. The opening between the bottom of the fence and
the ground or other surface shall not be more than 3 inches.
   (C)   All pools shall have either a fence as described in divisions (A) and
(B) or a latchable cover. The cover should be constructed of material
impenetrable by toddlers and subject to inspection by city inspectors.
   (D)   The walls of any pool or special-purpose pool, regardless of their
height, shall not qualify as a safety fence.
(Am. Ord. 2007-6-1, passed 6-26-2007; Am. Ord. 2011-6-2, passed 6-14-2011; Am.
Ord. 2015-1-3, passed 1-13-2015)
§ 154.04 PERMITS.
   Before work is commenced on the construction of a swimming pool or special
purpose pool, or any alteration, addition, remodeling, repair or other
improvement to a swimming pool or special purpose pool in excess of the value
of $500, 2 sets of plans and specifications and pertinent explanatory data
shall be submitted to the City Building Inspector for approval relative to
design, operation and maintenance insofar as health and safety features are
concerned.
(Am. Ord. 2007-6-1, passed 6-26-2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 154.05 MISCELLANEOUS POOL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Nuisance. The conduct of persons in the operation of pools shall be
the responsibility of the owner and the tenant, and such conduct of persons in
operation of the pool shall be done in a manner so as to avoid any nuisance or
breach of the peace, and it shall be unlawful to allow loud noises to go beyond
the boundaries of the property upon which the pool or special-purpose pool is
located.
   (B)   Filling. The filling of pools from fire hydrants or other public
facilities is prohibited.
   (C)   Drainage. All back flushing water of swimming pool or special-purpose
pool drainage shall be directed onto the property of the owner or onto approved
drainageways. Drainage onto public streets or other public drainageways
requires a permit from the Zoning Administrator.
§ 154.06 EXISTING SWIMMING POOLS AND SPECIAL PURPOSE POOLS.
   Existing swimming pools and special-purpose pools which do not conform to
the requirement of §
154.03 shall be required to achieve compliance within 90 days of the effective
date of this subchapter.
CHAPTER 155: FIRE CODE
Section
   
155.01   Minnesota State Fire Code
   
155.02   Department of Fire Prevention
   
155.03   General authority and responsibilities
   
155.04   Inspections
   
155.05   Fire prevention program
§ 155.01 MINNESOTA STATE FIRE CODE.
   Incorporation by reference. The city incorporates by reference the Minnesota
State Fire Code as established in Minnesota Rules Ch. 7511, as amended from
time to time, 1 copy of which is on file with the Fire Inspector. Every
provision contained in the Minnesota State Fire Code, except as modified or
amended by this chapter, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as
if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-8-2014; Am. Ord. 2018-4-1, passed 4-10-2018)
§ 155.02 DEPARTMENT OF FIRE PREVENTION.
   (A)   General. The Department of Fire Prevention is established within the
jurisdiction under the direction of the Fire Inspector. The function of the
department shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Appointment. The Fire Inspector shall be appointed by the City
Council.
   (C)   Deputies. The Stacy City Council shall have the authority to appoint a
Deputy Fire Inspector, other related technical officers, inspectors and other
employees.
   (D)   (1)   Liability. The Fire Inspector, officer or employee charged with
the enforcement of this code, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not
thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act
required or permitted in the discharge of official duties.
      (2)   Legal defense. Any suit instituted against any officer or employee
because of an act performed by that officer or employee in the lawful discharge
of duties and under the provisions of this code shall be defended by the legal
representative of the jurisdiction until the final termination of the
proceedings. The Fire Inspector or any subordinate shall not be liable for
costs in an action, suit or proceeding that is instituted in pursuance of the
provisions of this code; and any officer of the Department of Fire Prevention,
acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability for acts
performed under any of its provisions or by reason of any act or omission in
the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-8-2014)
§ 155.03 GENERAL AUTHORITY AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   General. The Fire Inspector is hereby authorized to enforce the
provisions of this code and shall have the authority to render interpretations
of this code, and to adopt policies, procedures, rules and regulations in order
to clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations, policies,
procedures, rules and regulations shall be in compliance with the intent and
purpose of this code and shall not have the effect of waiving requirements
specifically provided for in this code.
   (B)   Applications and permits. The Fire Inspector is authorized to receive
applications, review construction documents and issue permits for construction
regulated by this code, issue permits for operations regulated by this code,
inspect the premises for which such permits have been issued and enforce
compliance with the provisions of this code.
   (C)   (1)   Right of entry. Whenever it is necessary to make an inspection
to enforce the provisions of this code, or whenever the Fire Inspector has
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a building or upon any
premises any conditions or violations of this code which make the building or
premises unsafe, dangerous or hazardous, the Fire Inspector shall have the
authority to enter the building or premises at all reasonable times to inspect
or to perform the duties imposed upon the Fire Inspector by this code. If such
building or premises is occupied, the Fire Inspector shall present credentials
to the occupant an request entry. If such building or premises is unoccupied,
the Fire Inspector shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the owner or
other person having charge or control of the building or premises and request
entry. If entry is refused, the Fire Inspector has recourse to every remedy
provided by law to secure entry. The Fire Inspector may be accompanied by a
representative of the Stacy/Lent Fire and Rescue during inspections.
      (2)   Warrant. When the Fire Inspector has first obtained a proper
inspection warrant or other remedy provided by law to secure entry, an owner or
occupant or person having charge, care or control of the building or premises
shall not fail or neglect, after proper request is made as herein provided, to
permit entry therein by the Fire Inspector for the purpose of inspection and
examination pursuant to this code.
   (D)   Identification. The Fire Inspector shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
code.
   (E)   Notices and orders. The Fire Inspector is authorized to issue such
notices or orders as are required to affect compliance with this code in
accordance with §§ 109.1 and 109.2 of the International Fire Code.
   (F)   Official records. The Fire Inspector shall keep official records as
required by the City Code and relevant state law. All city inspector's records
shall be provided to the Fire Chief. Such official records shall be retained by
the city permanently.
      (1)   Inspections. The Fire Inspector shall keep a record of each
inspection made, including notices and orders issued, showing the findings and
dispositions of each.
      (2)   Fire records. The fire department shall keep a record of fires
occurring within its jurisdiction and of facts concerning the same, including
statistics as to the extent of such fires and the damage caused thereby,
together with other information as required by the Fire Inspector.
      (3)   Administrative. Application for modification, alternative methods
or materials and the final decision of the Fire Inspector shall be in writing
and shall be officially recorded in the permanent records of the Fire
Inspector.
   (G)   Approved materials and equipment. All materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Fire Inspector shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with such proposal.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-8-2014)
§ 155.04 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspection authority. The Fire Inspector is authorized to enter and
examine any building, structure, marine vessel, vehicle, or premises in
accordance with §
155.03(C) for the purpose of enforcing this code in the Commercial districts,
multi-family residential property and single family residential property with
licensed child care.
   (B)   Inspections. The Fire Inspector is authorized to conduct such
inspections as are deemed necessary to determine the extent of compliance with
the provisions of this code and to approve reports of inspection by approved
agencies or individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be prepared and
submitted in writing for review and approval. Inspection reports shall be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The Fire Inspector is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual, detailed or complex
technical issues subject to the approval of the governing body.
   (C)   Concealed work. Whenever any installation subject to inspection prior
to use is covered or concealed without having first been inspected, the Fire
Inspector shall have the authority to require that such work be exposed for
inspection.
(Ord. 2014-4-2, passed 4-8-2014)
§ 155.05 FIRE PREVENTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Application. All multiple-family dwellings (apartments) and all non-
residential buildings are subject to inspection.
   (B)   Inspection. The Fire Inspector shall inspect each building once every
year, if the city has obtained consent of the building owner or an
administrative search warrant. Inspections shall consist of a compliance check
with the applicable Minnesota State Fire Code provisions as incorporated
herein.
   (C)   Fee. The property owner must pay the annual inspection fee in the
amount set by ordinance by the City Council.
   (D)   Continuing violations. Violations of the Minnesota State Fire Code may
be forwarded to the county for prosecution. The city may pursue any other legal
remedy available to it, including civil injunction, in addition to or instead
of prosecution.
(Ord. 2018-4-1, passed 4-10-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      Granting a renewed franchise to Savage Communications,
508.00    5-9-2000    Inc. to construct and maintain a cable television system
                      in the city for a period of 15 years.
                      Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company to
2011-4-2  4-12-2011   construct, operate, repair and maintain an electric
                      distribution system in the city.
                      Granting a franchise to Northern States Power Company for
2011-4-3  4-12-2011   the purpose of constructing, operating, repairing and
                      maintaining a gas distribution system in the city.
                      Amending a franchise to Midcontinent Communications to
2015-5-1  5-12-2015   extend the term of the franchise for 6 months after their
                      current expiration date.
2015-11-1 11-10-2015  Granting a franchise to Midcontinent Communications to
                      maintain a cable communications system in the city.
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Prior Code of Ordinances
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section           Code Section
12.25                  33.01,
                       33.04
12.31                  52.01 
12.37                  33.06
13D.04                 30.01
14.57 - 14.70          112.36,
                       112.99
                       153.188,
15.99                  153.189,
                       153.191,
                       153.193
16B.59                 150.01
47.16                  93.43
84.415                 153.059
84.872                 73.06
88.16 - 88.22          91.11
Ch. 103F               153.059
Ch. 103G               153.059
103G.005, Subd. 14  153.059
103G.245               153.059
115                    52.01
115.01                 153.059
116C.04(2)(b)          153.138
144.391                111.01
157.16, Subd. 3d       112.03
Ch. 168                70.03
168.011, Subd. 22      73.01
Ch. 169                70.03
169.01                 70.01
169.69                 71.04
169.693                71.04
169A.03                73.07
Ch. 171                70.03
Ch. 216D               93.44
216D.01 - .09          93.44
237.162                93.41,
                       93.49
237.163                93.49
297F.01, Subd. 3       111.02
326B                   Ch. 34, Appendix,
                       150.07
326B.082, subd. 16     150.07
326B.32 - 326B.399     150.07
326B.36, subd. 4       150.07
326B.36, subd. 6       150.07
326B.37                150.07
326B.41 - 326B.49      150.01
326B.43, subd. 2(n)    150.01
326B.44                150.01
326B.103, subd. 11     150.01
326B.103, subd. 13     150.01
326B.121, subd. 2(d)   150.01
326B.133               150.01
326B.148               150.01
Ch. 329                115.04
                       112.01,
                       112.02,
Ch. 340A               112.20,
                       112.23,
                       112.36,
                       112.99
340A.14, Subd. 6       112.22
340A.101               112.03,
                       112.22
340A.4011, Subd. 1     112.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(4)   112.55
340A.404, Subd. 4a     112.22
340A.404, Subd. 4b     112.22
340A.404, Subd. 5      112.22
340A.408, Subd. 2b     112.22
340A.408, Subd. 3      112.22
340A.408, Subd. 5      112.23
340A.409               112.25,
                       112.54
340A.413               112.55
340A.413, Subd. 3      112.20
340A.414               112.35
340A.414, Subd. 6      112.22
340A.504               112.33
340A.504, Subd. 3      112.22
340A.504, Subd. 3c     112.22
340A.509               112.02
340A.801               112.25
342.01, Subd. 16       130.03
342.01, Subd. 18       130.03
342.01, Subd. 20       130.03
342.01, Subd. 31       130.03
342.01, Subd. 37       130.03
342.01, Subd. 50       130.03
347.51                 92.12
347.54                 92.12
347.151                92.12
349.12, Subd. 24       113.01
394.27, Subd. 7        153.059
412.141                32.03
412.151                32.02
415.11                 30.09
                       93.09,
Ch. 429                93.54,
                       153.998,
                       153.999
429.071                52.56
429.101                52.56,
                       95.08
429.101 et seq.        52.56
435.194                93.70
459.14, Subd. 6        72.01
                       93.54,
                       153.059,
Ch. 462                153.060,
                       153.061,
                       153.062,
                       153.063
462.354, Subd. 1       31.01
462.357, Subd. 3       31.05
462.357, Subd. 6(2)  153.059
Ch. 462.357, Subd. 7   153.056
462.358                151.02
462.358, Subd. 2(b)    151.65
462.3593               153.031
462.3593, Subd. 9      153.031
463.15 - 463.26        93.01,
                       93.04
463.17                 95.06
Ch. 466                93.22
471.62                 70.02,
                       150.01
471.6985               112.53
Ch. 609                95.07
617.241, Subd. 1(a)    153.096
                       
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules                     Code Section
Ch. 1300                        150.01
1300.0160, subpart 3            Ch. 34, Appendix
1300.0215                       150.01
1315.0020                       150.07
Ch. 4714                        150.01
Ch. 4715                        150.08
Ch. 4725                        150.02
4725.4350                       153.059
6120.5000                       153.059
6120.5000 through 6120.6200     153.059
6120.5600, Subd. 4              153.059
Ch. 7030                        95.04,
                                153.034
7030.1000 through 7030.1500     71.04
7035.0300                       153.059
Ch. 7080                        52.56,
                                150.03
7080.2270                       153.059
7080.2290                       52.56
Ch. 7081                        52.56
7081.0020, subpart 4            52.56
Ch. 7082                        52.56
Ch. 7083                        52.56
Ch. 7511                        155.01
Ch. 7560                        93.44
7560.0100 subparts 1 through 12 93.41
7560.0150 subpart 2             93.54
7819.0100 subparts 1 through 23 93.41
7819.1000                       93.45
7819.1000 subpart 3             93.42
7819.1100                       93.46,
                                93.49
7819.1250                       93.58
7819.1300                       93.50
7819.3000                       93.46
7819.3100                       93.55
7819.3200                       93.57
7819.4000                       93.54
7819.4100                       93.54
7819.5000                       93.55
7819.5100                       93.55
                                
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE OF ORDINANCES
Prior Code Section 2005 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2005 Code Section
201.01             30.01
201.02             30.02
201.03             30.03
201.04             30.04 
201.05             30.05
201.06             30.06
201.08             30.08
201.09             30.09
202.01             31.01
202.02             31.02
202.04             31.04
202.05             31.05
202.06             31.06
202.07             31.07
204.01             32.01
303.01             150.20
303.02             150.21
303.04             150.22,
                   150.24
303.05             150.23
303.05             150.25
401.01             50.01
401.02             50.02
401.03             50.03
401.04             50.04
401.05             50.05
401.06             50.06
402.01             51.02 -
                   51.08
402.02             51.20 -
                   51.26
402.03             51.40 -
                   51.43
402.04             51.58
403.01             52.01
                   52.02,
403.02             52.55,
                   52.57 -
                   52.59
                   52.20,
                   52.21,
                   52.35 -
403.03             52.40,
                   52.60,
                   52.75 -
                   52.80
403.04             52.99
404.01             50.07
501.01             110.01
501.02             110.02
501.03             110.03
501.04             110.04
501.05             110.05
501.07             110.06
701.01             70.01
701.02             71.01
701.03             71.02
701.04             72.01 -
                   72.06
701.05             71.20 -
                   71.25
701.06             70.04,
                   70.05
701.08             71.03
701.10             70.98
702.01             70.02
702.02             70.03
703.01             73.01
703.02             73.02
703.03             73.03
703.04             73.04
703.05             73.05
703.06             73.06
703.07             73.07
703.08             73.08
703.09             73.09
703.10             73.10
703.11             73.07
801.01             95.01
801.03             95.03
801.04             95.04
801.05             95.05
801.06             95.06
801.07             95.08
801.08             95.99
802.01             90.01
804.01 - 804.08    130.02
901.01             153.001
901.02             153.002
901.03             153.003
901.04             153.004
901.05             153.005
901.06             153.113 -
                   153.118
901.07             153.007
902.01             153.020
902.02             153.021
902.03             153.022
902.04             153.023
902.06             153.025
902.07             153.026
902.08             153.027
902.09             153.028
902.10             153.029
902.11             153.030
903.01             153.045
903.02             153.046
903.03             153.047
903.04             153.049
903.09             153.054
903.10             153.055
904.01             153.071
904.02             153.072
904.03             153.073
904.04             153.074
904.05             153.075
904.06             153.076
904.07             153.077
904.08             153.078
904.09             153.079
904.11             153.081
904.12             153.082
904.13             153.083,
                   153.084
904.14             153.085
                   153.110 -
906.01             153.112,
                   153.119,
                   153.120
908.01             153.185
908.02             153.186
908.03             153.187
908.05             153.189
908.06             153.191
1001.01            151.01 -
                   151.12
1001.02            151.05
1001.03            151.30,
                   151.31
1001.04            151.32,
                   151.33
1001.05            151.45 -
                   151.51
1001.07            151.80 -
                   151.83
1001.08            151.14
1001.09            151.15
1001.10            151.16
1101.01 - 1101.03  150.01
1102.01            150.02
1102.02            150.02
1102.03            150.02
1104.01            150.04
1104.02            150.04
1104.03            150.04
1105.01            150.05
1106.01            150.06
1106.02            150.06
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
92         1-12-1991   150.04
93         1-12-1991   150.05
98         9-10-1991   113.01 -
                       113.04
104        10-12-1993  151.13
108        5-18-1995   150.01
114        7-9-1996    130.02
116        12-30-1996  32.01
—        - -1997     152.01
                       153.189 -
119        11-12-1997  153.189,
                       153.191
                       95.05 -
120        1-13-1998   95.06,
                       95.08,
                       95.99
                       94.01 -
121        1-13-1998   94.05,
                       94.98
123        1-12-1999   50.07
—        6-8-1999    31.02
508.00     5-9-2000    T.S.O. I
                       151.30,
2001-6-1   - -2001     153.189,
                       153.191
2001-8-1   - -2001     153.004,
                       153.045
2002-2-1   - -         30.01
2002-04-2  4-9-2002    30.09
2002-6-2   6-25-2002   50.07
2002-7-1   7-9-2002    153.086
2002-7-4   7-9-2002    30.09
2002-8-2   - -2002     153.023
2002-10-04 10-8-2002   153.155 -
                       153.171
2002-12-01 12-10-2002  72.04
2001-12-2  12-18-2002  72.04
2003-4-2   4-8-2003    50.07
2003-5-6   6-10-2003   150.01
                       34.01,
                       34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix,
2003-7-3   8-12-2003   50.03,
                       51.21,
                       95.08,
                       110.02,
                       151.15
2003-7-4   - -2003     153.008
2004-4-2   - -2004     153.047,
                       153.048
2005-5-1   5-10-2005   153.020,
                       153.023
2005-11-1  11-8-2005   32.02
2006-01-04 1-10-2006   34.01
2006-01-05 1-10-2006   51.22
2006-3-3   3-28-2006   34.01,
                       112.22
                       34.01,
2006-3-4   3-28-2006   95.07,
                       95.08
2006-12-2  12-12-2006  72.01
2006-12-3  12-12-2006  112.33
                       34.01,
2007-1-3   1-9-2007    153.189,
                       153.191
                       34.01,
2007-1-24  1-23-2007   34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
                       154.01,
2007-6-1   6-26-2007   154.03,
                       154.04
2007-6-2   6-26-2007   10.20
2007-7-2   7-24-2007   51.27
                       34.01,
2008-1-1   1-10-2008   34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2008-2-2   2-26-2008   34.01,
                       52.55
                       34.01,
2008-8-1   8-12-2008   96.01 -
                       96.04
2008-8-3   8-26-2008   30.07
2009-03-01 1-13-2009   34.01
2009-4-1   4-14-2009   51.01,
                       51.09
                       92.04,
                       94.05,
                       95.02,
                       153.006,
                       153.024,
2009-5-1   5-12-2009   153.031,
                       153.033,
                       153.056,
                       153.080,
                       153.190,
                       153.191
                       34.01,
2009-7-2   8-11-2009   93.40 -
                       93.61
2009-8-1   8-25-2009   112.05
                       34.01,
2010-1-1   1-12-2010   34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
                       153.020,
2010-2-1   2-23-2010   153.057,
                       153.058
                       34.01,
                       50.05,
2010-4-1   4-13-2010   51.55 -
                       51.57,
                       52.03,
                       52.21
2010-5-1   5-11-2010   151.65
                       34.01,
2010-7-2   7-13-2010   115.01 -
                       115.10,
                       115.99
2010-9-3   9-14-2010   31.02
2010-12-2  12-14-2010  150.01
2010-12-4  12-14-2010  51.28,
                       52.55
2011-3-2   3-8-2011    30.01,
                       34.01
2011-4-2   4-12-2011   T.S.O. I
2011-4-3   4-12-2011   T.S.O. I
2011-6-2   6-14-2011   154.01 -
                       154.03
                       34.01,
2011-6-3   6-14-2011   95.02,
                       95.02A
2011-6-4   6-14-2011   153.032
                       34.01,
2011-7-1   7-12-2011   51.10,
                       52.56
2011-7-2   7-12-2011   150.07
                       153.187,
2011-8-1   8-9-2011    153.188,
                       153.192,
                       153.999
2011-8-2   8-9-2011    50.05
2011-9-4   9-13-2011   51.28,
                       52.55
2011-11-1  11-9-2011   92.04,
                       153.045
                       34.01,
2011-11-2  11-9-2011   34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2011-11-4  11-9-2011   30.09,
                       34.01
2012-3-2   3-13-2012   151.51,
                       153.059
                       52.61,
2012-6-1   6-12-2012   150.09,
                       151.84
                       153.189,
                       153.190,
2012-9-1   9-11-2012   153.191,
                       153.193,
                       153.194,
                       153.998
2012-9-2   9-11-2012   31.07
2012-10-2  10-9-2012   34.01
2012-11-2  11-13-2012  51.11,
                       153.056
2013-1-3   1-8-13      34.01
2013-1-4   1-8-13      51.42,
                       153.086
2013-2-1   2-12-13     31.08,
                       34.01
                       34.01,
                       115.01 -
2013-3-2   3-12-13     115.10,
                       115.99,
                       153.057
2013-5-1   6-11-13     153.004,
                       153.121
2013-5-2   5-14-13     153.049
2013-6-1   6-11-13     153.087
2013-8-3   8-27-13     95.04
2013-8-4   8-27-13     51.11
2013-9-2   9-10-13     153.032,
                       153.034
2013-9-3   9-10-13     73.02,
                       73.07
2013-11-1  11-12-13    95.04
2013-11-2  11-12-13    73.07
                       34.01,
2014-1-3   1-14-14     34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
                       34.01,
2014-4-1   5-13-14     92.04,
                       92.19,
                       153.045
                       34.01,
2014-4-2   4-8-14      155.01 -
                       155.04
2014-6-1   6-10-14     51.27
2014-6-4   6-10-14     34.01
2014-8-2   8-13-14     153.031
2014-11-1  11-12-14    50.05
2014-11-3  11-12-14    50.08
                       34.01,
2015-1-1   1-13-15     34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2015-1-3   1-13-15     154.01,
                       154.03
                       151.05,
                       153.004,
2015-3-2   3-16-15     153.025,
                       153.055,
                       153.121
2015-3-3   3-16-15     153.056
2015-5-1   5-12-15     T.S.O. I
2015-5-3   5-12-15     52.57
2015-5-4   5-26-15     91.26
2015-7-1   7-14-15     150.02
2015-10-1  10-13-15    51.11
2015-11-1  11-10-15    T.S.O. I
                       34.01,
2016-1-2   1-12-16     34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2016-2-1   2-9-16      153.031
2016-2-2   --          71.01
2016-4-1   4-12-16     153.032
                       92.01,
2016-4-2   4-12-16     92.02,
                       92.06
2016-5-6   5-24-16     153.032
2016-8-2   8-23-16     153.031
                       153.035,
2016-10-2  10-11-16    153.045,
                       153.056
2016-11-1  11-9-16     153.031
2016-11-2  11-9-16     153.190
2016-11-3  11-9-16     153.008
2016-11-4  11-9-16     151.47
2016-11-5  11-9-16     153.086
2016-11-6  11-9-16     151.31
2016-11-7  11-9-16     50.08
                       34.01,
2017-1-2   1-10-17     34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2017-2-1   2-15-17     151.52,
                       151.81
2017-3-1   3-14-17     34.01
2017-7-1   7-11-17     153.080
2017-7-2   7-11-17     112.26
2017-8-4   8-8-17      112.25
                       95.01 -
2017-10-1  10-10-17    95.04,
                       95.06
2017-12-4  12-12-17    51.27
2018-1-4   1-9-18      72.04
2018-4-1   4-10-18     155.01,
                       155.05
2018-9-4   9-11-18     153.004
2018-9-5   9-11-18     153.189
2018-10-3  10-9-18     153.090 -
                       153.105
2019-2-2   2-12-19     30.07
                       34.01,
2019-3-3   2-12-19     34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
                       30.03,
                       30.04,
                       30.06,
                       30.07,
                       50.05,
                       50.08,
                       51.04,
                       51.41,
                       70.04,
2019-5-4   5-14-19     70.05,
                       71.01,
                       71.02,
                       71.20,
                       71.23,
                       71.25,
                       72.01,
                       72.02,
                       72.04,
                       73.02,
                       73.07
                       153.004,
                       153.025,
                       153.027,
                       153.035,
                       153.045 -
2019-8-3   8-13-19     153.048,
                       153.056,
                       153.104,
                       153.113,
                       153.119 -
                       153.121
                       33.01 -
2019-11-2  11-12-19    33.08,
                       33.99
2019-12-1  12-10-19    112.33
2020-3-1   3-10-20     92.02
2020-3-2   3-10-20     34.01,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2020-11-1  11-10-20    153.189
2020-11-2  11-10-20    153.999
2020-11-3  11-10-20    153.004
                       50.07,
                       52.56,
                       90.01,
                       90.02,
                       92.01,
2020-11-4  11-10-20    92.02,
                       92.05,
                       92.07 -
                       92.13,
                       92.15,
                       95.07
2020-12-8  12-8-20     153.031
2021-1-3   1-12-21     34.01,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2021-1-4   1-12-21     115.02,
                       115.04
2021-2-1   2-9-21      153.121
2021-3-1   3-9-21      115.04
2021-8-3   8-10-21     153.050
2021-8-4   8-10-21     153.051
2021-8-5   8-10-21     153.053
2021-8-6   8-10-21     153.052
                       115.02,
2021-9-3   9-14-21     115.04 -
                       115.06
                       112.03,
                       112.22,
2021-9-4   9-14-21     112.31,
                       112.32,
                       112.35
                       93.01,
                       93.03 -
                       93.05,
                       93.07 -
                       93.09,
2021-10-1  10-12-21    93.20 -
                       93.25,
                       93.40 -
                       93.61,
                       93.70 -
                       93.73
                       94.01 -
2021-11-1  11-9-21     94.06,
                       94.98
                       34.01,
2021-12-8  12-14-21    34.02,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2022-2-1   2-8-22   34.01
2022-3-2   3-9-22      150.01
2022-5-1   5-10-22     31.04
2022-5-2   5-10-22     153.192
2022-5-3   5-10-22     52.56
2022-5-4   5-10-22     152.01
2022-5-5   5-10-22     151.30,
                       151.32
2022-5-6   5-10-22     151.31
2022-5-7   5-10-22     153.188
2022-5-8   5-10-22     153.189
2022-5-9   5-10-22     153.193
2022-5-10  5-10-22     130.02
                       112.03,
2022-5-11  5-10-22     153.051,
                       153.053
2022-5-12  5-10-22     153.185
2022-5-13  5-10-22     153.191
2022-5-14  5-10-22     34.01,
                       Ch. 34 Appendix
2022-7-1   7-12-22     96.03
2023-1-1   1-10-23     34.01
2023-1-2   1-10-23     153.051
2023-4-2   5-9-23      71.04
2023-6-2   6-13-23     153.190
2023-8-1   9-12-23     92.06
2023-8-2   8-8-23      153.034
2023-9-3   9-12-23     153.032
2023-10-3  10-10-23    51.07
2023-12-1  12-12-23    153.056
2023-12-2  12-12-23    92.04
2023-12-3  12-12-23    92.19
2023-12-4  12-12-23    153.045
2023-12-5  1-9-24      73.02,
                       73.07
2023-12-6  1-10-24     34.01
2024-3-1   3-12-24     30.07
2024-3-2   3-12-24     31.02
                       111.01 -
2024-3-3   3-12-24     111.14,
                       111.99
2024-3-5   3-12-24     34.01
2024-5-1   5-6-24      51.22
2024-5-2   5-6-24      34.01
2024-7-1   7-9-24      153.051
2024-7-2   7-9-24      130.03
2024-8-1   8-14-24     32.02,
                       32.03
2024-8-2   8-14-24     113.04
2024-9-1   9-10-24     51.07
2024-9-2   9-10-24     153.033
2024-9-3   9-10-24     153.096,
                       153.101
2024-9-4   9-10-24     153.084
2024-9-5   9-10-24     153.060
2024-9-6   9-10-24     153.061
2024-9-7   9-10-24     153.062
2024-9-8   9-10-24     153.063
2024-9-9   9-10-24     153.064
2024-9-10  9-10-24     153.065
2024-9-11  9-10-24     153.009
2024-9-12  9-10-24     153.010
2024-10-1  10-8-24     153.020
2024-10-2  10-8-24     153.071-
                       153.087
2024-10-4  10-8-24     153.059
2024-10-5  10-8-24     34.01
                      
 
STACY, MN
LAND USE REGULATIONS
2019
LENT TOWNSHIP, CHISAGO COUNTY, MINNESOTA
LENT TOWNSHIP LAND USE REGULATIONS
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
Table of Contents
CHAPTER ONE: RELATIONSHIP TO CHISAGO COUNTY OFFICIAL LAND USE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER TWO: ZONING ORDINANCE
Section 1 Title
Section 2 Purpose
Section 3 Definitions
Section 4 General Provisions
§
4.01 Scope and Interpretation
§
4.02 Permits, Applications, Licenses and Services
§
4.03 Nonconforming Structures and Uses
§
4.04 Home Occupations
§
4.05 Essential Services and Transmission Services
§
4.06 Yard Regulations
§
4.07 Building Requirements
§
4.08 Accessory Structures and Uses
§
4.09 Fences
§
4.10 Lots of Record
§
4.11 Temporary Manufactured Home Permit
§
4.12 Off-Street Parking and Loading
§
4.13 Abandoned Vehicles
§
4.14 Signs
§
4.15 Driveways and Access Aprons
§
4.16 Dangerous Exotic Animals
§
4.17 Transfer of Development Rights
§
4.18 Solar Energy Systems
Section 5 Zoning District Provisions
§
5.01 Establishment of Districts
§
5.02 Zoning Map
§
5.03 Detachment
§
5.04 Zoning District Boundaries
§
5.05 District Regulations
§
5.06 Rural Residential Agricultural District (RR-A)
§
5.07 Rural Residential District II (RR-II)
§
5.08 Rural Residential District I (RR-I)
§
5.09 Urban Growth District
§
5.10 Rural Transit Center District
§
5.11 Natural Resource Preservation District
§
5.12 Dimensional Standards (Table)
§
5.13 Zoning Map
Section 6 Special Management Overlay Districts
§
6.01 Purpose
§
6.02 Establishment of Overlay Districts
§
6.03 Scope
§
6.04 Shoreland Management Overlay District
§
6.05 Carlos Avery Overlay District
§
6.06 Sunrise River Overlay District
Section 7 Performance Standards
§
7.01 Maintenance Required
§
7.02 On-site Sewage Treatment Standards
§
7.03 Nonconforming Sewage Treatment Systems
§
7.04 Odors and Emissions
§
7.05 Dust and Particulates
§
7.06 Noise and Vibrations
§
7.07 Glare
§
7.08 Waste
§
7.09 Sewage Sludge Land Application
§
7.10 Developments in Fire Prone Areas
§
7.11 Bulk Storage
§
7.12 Outside Storage
§
7.13 Surfacewater Management
§
7.14 Wetland Protection and Management
§
7.15 Erosion and Sedimentation Control
§
7.16 Woodland Preservation
§
7.17 Landscaping
§
7.18 Screening
§
7.19 Conservation Subdivision and Planned Unit Development
§
7.20 Recreational Camping Areas
§
7.21 Drive-In/Drive-Through Businesses
§
7.22 Automobile Dealerships
§
7.23 Automotive Service Stations
§
7.24 Mineral Extraction
§
7.25 Rural Retail Tourism Business
Section 8 Administration and Enforcement
§
8.01 Administrating Officer
§
8.02 Fees and Administrative Charges
§
8.03 Planning Commission
§
8.04 Board of Adjustment and Appeals
§
8.05 Conditional Use Permits
§
8.06 Interim Use Permits
§
8.07 Variances
§
8.08 Appeals
§
8.09 Amendments
§
8.10 Penalties and Violations
§
8.11 Repealer
§
8.12 Date of Effect
CHAPTER THREE: SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
Section 1 General Provisions
§
1.01 Title
§
1.02 Purpose
§
1.03 Interpretation
§
1.04 Scope
§
1.05 Conformance with Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance
§
1.06 Platting Required
§
1.07 Deadline for Action
§
1.08 Lot Reconfiguration
§
1.09 Lot Line Adjustment
§
1.10 Exceptions for Single Lot Division
§
1.11 Transfer of Development Rights
Section 2 Definitions
Section 3 Platting Procedure
§
3.01 Sketch Plan
§
3.02 Preparing and Submitting the Preliminary Plat
§
3.03 Preliminary Plat Requirements
§
3.04 Review of Preliminary Plat
§
3.05 Preparing and Filing the Final Plat
§
3.06 Review of the Final Plat
Section 4 Minimum Design Standards
§
4.01 Land Requirements
§
4.02 Block Requirements
§
4.03 Lot Requirements
§
4.04 Park Land Dedication
§
4.05 Street Plan
§
4.06 Street Design
§
4.07 Restriction of Access
§ 4.08 Street Jogs
§ 4.09 Deflections
§ 4.10 Grades
§ 4.11 Vertical Curves
§ 4.12 Intersections
§ 4.13 Curb and Gutter on Urban Design Streets
§ 4.14 Public Utilities
§ 4.15 Drainage
§ 4.16 Ditch Crossings
§ 4.17 Vacation, relocation or modification of Township Roads
§ 4.18 Street Names
Section 5 Improvements
§
5.01 Required Improvements
§
5.02 Areas served by public sewage treatment and water supply systems
§
5.03 Areas not served by public sewage treatment and water supply systems
§
5.04 Street Signs
§
5.05 Miscellaneous Facilities
§
5.06 Payment for Installation of Improvements
§
5.07 Development Contract Providing for the Installation of Improvements
§
5.08 Special Approval Required for Subdivider Who Have Previously Defaulted
§
5.09 Construction Plans and Inspection
§
5.10 Improvements Completed Prior to Approval of the Plat
§
5.11 Alternate Installation and Incomplete Improvements
§
5.12 Responsibility for Costs
Section 6 Other Types of Development
§
6.01 Conservation Subdivision and Planned Unit Development
§
6.02 [Reserved for future use]
Section 7 Administration and Enforcement
§
7.01 Administering Officer
§
7.02 Permits and Certificates
§
7.03 Fees and Administrative Charges
§
7.04 Violations and Penalties
§
7.05 Variances
§
7.06 Amendments
§
7.07 Repealer
§
7.08 Validity
§
7.09 Date of Effect
Amendments
CHAPTER FOUR: SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT ORDINANCE
CHAPTER FIVE: BUILDING CODE
Section 1 Application, Administration and Enforcement
§
1.01 Application
§
1.02 Administrating Officer
§
1.03 Enforcement
Section 2 Adoption of Building Code
Section 3 Permits and Fees
Section 4 Special Provisions
§
4.01 Roof Repair and Replacement
Section 5 Violations and Penalties
Section 6 Date of Effect
Amendments
CHAPTER SIX: ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND FEE SCHEDULE
Section 1 Title
Section 2 Purpose and Intent
Section 3 Administration
§
3.01 Administrating Officers
§
3.02 Variances from Land Use Regulations
§
3.03 Appeals from Land Use Regulations
§
3.04 Amendments to Land Use Regulations
Section 4 Fees
§
4.01 Fees and Administrative Charges
§
4.02 Fee Schedule
Section 5 Enforcement
§
5.01 Enforcement Officer and Citation Powers
§
5.02 Criminal Penalty
§
5.03 Administrative Penalty
§
5.04 Prosecution of Violations
Section 6 Date of Effect
Amendments
CHAPTER SEVEN: Floodplain Management
Section 1 Statutory Authorization
Section 2 Purpose and Intent
Section 3 Establishment of Flood District Map
Section 4 Establishment of the Floodplain district overlay
Section 5 Definitions
Section 6 Administration
Section 7 Permitted Uses in the Floodplain District
Section 8 Nonconformities
Section 9 Warning of Disclaimer of Liability
Section 10 Enforcement
Section 11 Severability
Section 12 Effective Date
CHAPTER EIGHT [Reserved for Future Use]
CHAPTER NINE [Reserved for Future Use]
CHAPTER TEN: APPENDICES TO OFFICIAL LAND USE REGULATIONS
Appendix A Schedule of Fees
Section 1 Establishment of Fee Schedule
Section 2 Schedule of Fees for Actions and Activities Governed by Lent Township
Regulations
§
2.01 Application Fees
§
2.02 Inspection and Service Fees
§
2.03 Building Permit Fees
§
2.04 Fees not Refundable
§
2.05 Incomplete Applications or Changes to Submitted Applications
§
2.06 Withdrawn Applications
§
2.07 No application or action required
Section 3 Date of Effect
Amendments
Appendix B [Reserved for Future Use]
Lent Township Land Use Regulations
 
CHAPTER ONE
RELATIONSHIP TO CHISAGO COUNTY OFFICIAL LAND USE REGULATIONS
Lent Township hereby adopts by reference, the following official land use
regulations currently enforced by Chisago County, Minnesota: Chisago County
Zoning Ordinance; Chisago County Subdivision Ordinance; Chisago County Sewage
and Wastewater Treatment Ordinance; and Chisago County Shoreland Management
Ordinance. Lent Township does not intend to abrogate, impair or repeal any
existing covenants, deed restrictions or easements by this action. However,
where the official land use regulations of Lent Township imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of the official land use regulations of Lent
Township shall prevail. In addition, Lent Township shall assume no obligation
for previous actions or decisions of any other entity regulating land use
within Lent Township, and shall not accept any responsibility for such actions
or decisions.
Passed and approved this 16th day of January, 2007, by the Lent Township Board
of Supervisors.
Gene Olson, Chairman ATTEST:
Roxanne Kahler, Township Clerk
Published in the official papers this 2nd day of February, 2007.
CHAPTER TWO
ZONING ORDINANCE
An Ordinance relating to, and regulating the use of land, the location, size,
use and heights of structures; the arrangement of structures on lots; the
density of population; the use of natural resources; and the preservation of
environmental resources for the purpose of promoting and protecting the public
health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of Lent
Township.
LENT TOWNSHIP does ordain as follows:
SECTION 1. TITLE
   This Ordinance shall be known, cited and referred to as the LENT TOWNSHIP
ZONING ORDINANCE except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as "this
Ordinance." The provisions of this Ordinance shall apply to all lands,
properties, buildings and other structures or use of land within Lent Township,
Chisago County, Minnesota.
SECTION 2. PURPOSE
   It is the purpose of this Ordinance to provide for and protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare through the following objectives:
   A.   Prevent the overcrowding of land;
   B.   Promote orderly growth and development of the Township;
   C.   Limit congestion and promote safety in the public rights-of-way;
   D.   Stage development to coincide with the efficient provision of necessary
public services;
   E.   Establish Districts and regulate therein, the location and use of
structures and land;
   F.   Preserve the character and maintain property values within rural,
residential, and commercial areas of the Township;
   G.   Protect long term agricultural opportunities in the Township; and
   H.   Preserve natural resources and to preserve the environmental quality of
the Township.
SECTION 3. DEFINITIONS
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Ordinance
shall be interpreted with the same meaning they have in common usage. For the
purpose of this Ordinance, the words "must" and "shall" are mandatory and not
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally. The following words and terms wherever they occur in this
Ordinance are defined as follows:
Accessory Solar Energy System   Systems which are accessory to the principal
use on a property and designed to supply energy solely for the principal use.
Accessory Use or Structure   A subordinate structure or use which is located on
the same lot on which the principal building or use is situated and is
reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary or principal
use of such building or main use.
Agriculture or Agricultural Use   The principal use of the land or buildings is
for growing and production of agricultural goods including: field crop farming;
pasture for hay; fruit growing; tree, plant, shrub or flower nursery without
buildings; sod farming; truck gardening; roadside stands for sale in season;
and farm animals; but not including animal boarding, shelter or training
facilities; commercial animal feedlots; fur farms; or kennels.
Animal Feedlot   A lot or building or a group of lots and buildings intended
for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of animals.
Animals   Domestic. For the purposes of the Ordinance, a domestic animal shall
be defined as house pets such as dogs, cats, birds and fish which can be
contained within a principal structure throughout the entire year, provided
that containment can be accomplished without special modification to the
structure requiring a building permit from the Township. In addition, also
included are birds and rabbits normally sheltered outside the home.
Farm. Cattle, hogs, bees, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys, horses, miniature
horses (including Pony of Americas), farm dogs and other animals commonly
accepted as farm animals in the State of Minnesota. Exotic and Wild. Vertebrate
and invertebrate animals other than domestic and farm animals that are
customarily found in the wild, including but not limited to, bears, cougars,
lions, snakes, spiders, tigers, wolves and other such animals.
Antenna   Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves including, but not limited to, directional
antennae, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and Omni-
directional antennae, such as whip antennae.
Aquifer Recharge Areas   All land surface areas which by nature of their
surface and or subsurface soil
characteristics are determined to contribute to the replenishment of subsurface
water supplies.
Artificial Obstruction   Any obstruction which is not a natural obstruction.
Automobile Repair   General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam cleaning;
upholstering.
Automobile Service Station   A place where motor vehicle fuels, stored only in
underground tanks, motor oil and lubricants for operation of automobiles, are
related directly for retail sale to the public on premises; and including minor
accessories and services for automobiles, but not including automobile major
repairs and rebuilding.
Automobile Wrecking or Junk Yard   Any place where two (2) or more vehicles not
in running condition, not licensed, not separately insured or parts thereof are
stored in the open and are not being restored to operation for a period of more
than thirty (30) days; or any land, building or structure used for wrecking or
storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof, and including any commercial
salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles or merchandise.
Basement   Any floor below the first story in a building, except that a floor
level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a
basement unless such floor level qualifies as a first story as defined herein.
Bluff   A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment as defined
under the definitions within Minnesota Administrative Rules MR 6120.2500
Bluff Impact Zone   A bluff and land located twenty (20) feet from the top of
the bluff.
Bluffline   A line along the top of a bluff connecting the points at which the
bluff, proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed channels becomes
less than a eighteen (18) percent incline from the horizontal. The location of
the bluffline for any particular property shall be determined by the Lent
Township Planning Commission. More than one bluffline may be encountered
proceeding away from the river or adjoining watershed channel; all setbacks
required herein shall be applicable to each bluffline.
Board   The Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
Board of Adjustment and Appeals   A board created by the Lent Township Board of
Supervisors to oversee the issuance of variances and to hear and decide appeals
from administrative actions pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 462.357,
subdivision 6.
Boarding House   A building other than a motel or hotel where, for compensation
and by pre- arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are
provided for at least three (3) persons not of the principal family therein,
pursuant to previous arrangements and not to any who may apply, but not
including a building providing these services for more than ten (10) persons.
Buildable Area   The minimum contiguous area remaining on a lot or parcel of
land after all slopes greater than 25%, designated flood plains, wetlands, land
below the ordinary high water level of public waters, and lands where the depth
to mottled soil is less than one (1) foot are subtracted for the purpose of
placement of structures.
Building   Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any use
or occupancy.
Building or Other    An active solar energy system that is an integral part of
a principal or Architecturally-Integrated   accessory building, rather than a
separate mechanical device, replacing or Solar Energy System   substituting for
an architectural or structural component of the building.
Building-integrated systems include, but are not limited to, photovoltaic or
thermal solar systems that are contained within roofing materials, windows,
skylights and awnings.
Building Height   A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to the
top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest gable on a pitched or
hip roof, to the decline of a mansard roof, to the uppermost point on other
roof types.
Building Line   A line running parallel with the bluffline, ordinary high water
mark or lot line, whichever is applicable, at the required setback beyond which
a structure may not extend.
Building Setback   The minimum horizontal distance between the building and the
specified lot line as prescribed in this Ordinance.
Business   Any establishment, occupation, employment or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
Campground   An area accessible by vehicle and containing campsites or camping
spurs for tent and trailer camping.
Cash Escrow   Cash or other acceptable security of monetary value, deposited
with the Town Treasurer and held by the Township or other acceptable means,
until all contingencies, conditions, inspections and financial obligations have
been satisfactorily met as prescribed by this Ordinance.
Cellar   That portion of a building having more than one-half (1/2) of the
floor to ceiling height below the average land grade.
Channel   A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
Church   A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
Clearcutting   The removal of a stand of trees.
Club or Lodge      A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide
members paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and
their guests.
Clustered or Clustering   A development pattern and technique whereby
structures or building sites are arranged in close proximity to one another in
non-linear groups, adjacent to permanently preserved common open space, so as
to make the most efficient and visually aesthetic use of the natural features
of the landscape and maximize visualization of permanently preserved open
space.
Commercial Recreation   The use of the land for which fees are charged for
admission or use of the facility, or use of the land to gain access to a
recreational activity or resource, public or private.
Commercial Use   The use of the land or buildings for the sale, lease, rental,
or trade of products, goods, and services.
Commercial Wireless   Licensed commercial wireless telecommunication services
including Telecommunications Services   cellular, personal communication
services, specialized mobilized radio, enhanced specialized mobilized radio,
paging, and similar services.
Commissioner   The commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources.
Communication   As used in referring to essential services, includes but is not
limited to all facilities utilized for the transmission of digital, video, or
voice information whether by electronic, optical or other methods.
Community Solar Energy System/Systems designed to supply energy for off-site
users on the distribution grid, Solar Gardens (CSES) or for export to the
wholesale market via connection to the electric transmission grid. A CSES is a
solar energy system that has a capacity of no more than (1) one megawatt
capacity.
Comprehensive Plan   A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards and
maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development of the Township
and including a growth management plan which has been adopted by Lent Township.
Conditional Use   A use, which because of potential problems of control the use
presents, requires reasonable, but special, unusual and extraordinary
limitations peculiar to the use for the protection of the public welfare and
the integrity of the Comprehensive Plan.
Conservation Subdivision   A method of subdivision characterized by common open
space and clustered compact lots, with the purpose of protecting natural
resources to the greatest extent possible, while allowing for increased
residential densities. Site designs incorporate standards of low impact
development, such as maximum road setbacks for structures, and preservation of
trees, shoreline, unique resources, and scenic vistas, and these developments
use stormwater designs that emphasize on-site retention and infiltration
through the preservation of native vegetation, use of pervious surfaces, rain
gardens, and swales.
Crawl Space   Any areas of rooms with less than seven (7) feet of ceiling
height measured to the finished floor or grade.
Day Care Facility   A licensed day care facility serving twelve (12) or fewer
persons, or a group family licensed day care facility serving fourteen (14) or
fewer children.
Deck   A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
dwelling unit and extending more than one foot above ground.
Deposition   Any rock, soil, gravel, sand or other material deposited naturally
or by man into a waterbody, watercourse, flood plains or wetlands.
Development Covenant   A deed restriction recorded with the property involved
in a development or involved with the sale or transfer of development credits.
In the case of development credits, the restriction may include a permanent
easement or other mechanism which removes the rights to development for all or
a portion of the property.
District Provisions   A section or sections of the Township for which the
regulations and governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each
class of use permitted therein.
Diversion Accustomed   A channel that intercepts surface water runoff and that
changes the course of all or part of a stream.
Distribution Lines   All those cables, wires, poles, structures and appurtenant
equipment, generally rated below sixty-nine (69) kilovolts, and used to carry
electricity between a customer and a transmission line.
Duplex   A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two (2) units attached by
common walls and each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating,
living, and sanitation facilities.
Dwelling   A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, boarding houses, mobile homes or
trailers.
Dwelling, Single Family   A dwelling unit designed for occupancy of one (1)
family.
   Attached. A dwelling which is joined to another at one or more sides by a
party wall.
   Detached. A dwelling unit not attached to another dwelling or structure.
Dwelling, Two-Family   A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two (2)
families living independently of each other.
Double Bungalow. A two-family dwelling with two (2) units side-by-side.
Duplex. A two-family dwelling with one (1) unit above the other.
Dwelling Unit      A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by one family, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes,
boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or mobile home trailers.
Earth-Sheltered Buildings   Buildings constructed so that more than fifty (50)
percent of the exterior surface area of the buildings, excluding garages and
other accessory buildings, is covered with earth. Partially completed buildings
shall not be considered earth sheltered.
Equal Degree of Encroachment   A method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that the hydraulic capacity of flood plain lands on each
side of a stream are reduced by an equal amount when calculating the increases
in flood stages due to floodplain encroachments.
Essential Services   Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
collection, communication, distribution, supply or disposal systems, including
electrical generation stations, substations, poles, wires, pipelines, mains,
drains, sewer, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants or other similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith;
but not including buildings or transmission services.
Extractive Use   The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat not
regulated under Minnesota Statutes, Sections 93.44 to 93.51.
Family      An individual or two or more persons related by blood or marriage
or a group of not more than five (5) unrelated persons living together on the
premises or in a single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group
occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel, club lodge, sorority or
fraternity house, as herein described.
Farm      A tract of land which is principally used for commercial agriculture,
and which is owned and operated by a single family, farm corporation,
individual or corporation.
Farm Dwelling   A single family dwelling located on a farm which is used or
intended for use by the farm's owner, a relative of the owner, or a person
employed thereof.
Flood   A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in inundation of
the areas adjacent to the channel.
Flood Frequency   The average frequency, statistically determined, for which it
is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
Flood Fringe   That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" as used in the Flood
Insurance Study for Chisago County.
Flood Plain   The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
Floodway   The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
flood plain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
Floor Area   The sum of the gross horizontal area of the several floors of the
building, measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls. The floor
area shall not include: basement or cellar floor area other than area devoted
to retailing activities, the production or processing of goods, or to business
or professional offices. The floor area of a residence shall not include the
cellar area.
Footprint   The total ground surface area covered by a structure or impervious
surface.
Forest Land Conversion   The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
Garage, Private   An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles
of the residents.
Garage, Public   A building or portion of a building, except as herein defined
as a private garage or as a repair garage, used for the storage of motor
vehicles, or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire and
which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to the
principal traffic.
Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation)   The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five (5)
feet from the building, between the building and a line five (5) feet from the
building.
Ground Mounted Panels   Freestanding solar panels mounted to the ground by use
of racking, pilings, piers, stabilizers or similar apparatus.
Guest Room   A room occupied by one (1) or more guests for compensation and in
which no provision is made for cooking, but not including rooms in a dormitory
for sleeping purposes primarily.
Hardship   Means the same as that term is defined in Minnesota Statutes,
Section 462.357, subd. 6.
Home Occupation   Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
family residing on the premises, provided that the use is clearly incidental
and secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, does not change
the character of the dwelling or neighborhood and no appreciable increase in
traffic is generated. Not more than one-third (1/3) of the building's floor
area shall be occupied by the occupation.
Hotel   A building containing eight (8) or more guest rooms in which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient
or permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any
guest room, and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made
through an inside lobby or office supervised by a person in charge.
Impervious Surface   An artificial or natural surface through which water, air,
or roots cannot penetrate, including all structures, concrete and bituminous
surfaces, and compacted earthen surfaces.
Industrial Use   The use of land or buildings for the production, manufacture,
warehousing, storage, distribution or transfer of goods, products, commodities,
or other wholesale items, not meeting the definition of light manufacturing.
Intensive Vegetation Clearing   The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
Interim Use   An interim use is a temporary use of property until a particular
date, or the occurrence of a particular event, or until the zoning regulations
no longer permit it. The interim use shall have reasonable conditions applied
that are specific to the use to ensure the protection of public safety and
welfare, and shall protect the integrity of the Comprehensive Plan.
Kennel, Commercial   Any place where three (3) or more dogs or three (3) or
more cats, over the age of four (4) months of age, or ten (10) or more other
domestic or exotic animals are kept, bred, boarded or trained.
Kennel, Residential   Any place where three (3) or more dogs or three (3) or
more cats, over the age of four (4) months of age, or ten (10) or more other
domestic or exotic animals are kept.
Light Construction Equipment   Skidsteer loaders, small truck type equipment
and other types of equipment, which are conveyed on trailers designed for use
with ten thousand (10,000) pounds or less gross weight vehicles.
Lot   A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds registered land
survey, auditors plot, or other accepted means, and separated from other
parcels or portions by said description for the purpose of sale, lease, or
separation thereof. For the purposes of this Ordinance, a lot shall be
considered to be an individual parcel which shall be occupied by no more than
one principal building or use and its necessary buildings.
Lot Area   The total area of a horizontal plane included within the lot lines.
Lot of Record   A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described and recorded with the Chisago County Recorder prior to the adoption
of zoning ordinances by Lent Township, or approved by the Township as a lot
subsequent to such date and which is occupied by or intended for occupancy by
one (1) principal building or principal use together with any accessory
buildings and such open spaces as required by this Ordinance and having its
principal frontage on a street, or a proposed street approved by the Township
Lot, Corner   A lot situated at the junction of and abutting two (2) or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is one hundred thirty-five (135)
degrees or less.
Lot, Frontage      The lot line abutting a public right-of-way and/or the
shoreline of a public water or wetland.
Lot, Interior   Including through lots, excluding corner lots.
Lot, Line   A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separated
ownership, except that where any portion of the lot extends into a public
right-of-way, the lot line shall be deemed to be the boundary of the right-of-
way.
Lot, Through   A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
Lot, Width   The shortest horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at the right angles at the building line associated with structure
setback requirements.
Manufacturing, Light   All uses which include the compounding, fabrication,
processing, packaging, treatment, or assembly of products and materials
provided such use will not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise,
vibration or other objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which
use is located, and does not normally require an urban level of public services
such as centralized sewer and water.
Manufactured Home   A structure, transportable in one or more sections which
meets all of the following criteria: 1) Minimum body dimensions of eight (8)
feet in width, forty (40) feet in length and total body area of three hundred
twenty (320) square feet; 2) Constructed on a permanent chassis and designed to
be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation; and 3) Complies
with all Manufactured Home standards established within Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 327.
Mining Operation   The extraction of clay, gravel, peat, sand, soil, stone or
other material from the land for commercial, industrial, or governmental
purposes.
Natural Drainage System   All land surface areas which, by nature of their
contour, configuration and elevation, collect, store, and channel surface water
run-off.
Natural Obstruction   Any rock, tree, gravel or analogous natural matter that
is an obstruction and has been located within a waterbody, watercourse, or
wetland by a non-human cause.
Non-Conforming Use   A building, structure or use of land which does not
conform to the regulations of the District or zone in which it is situated.
Obstruction   Any berm, dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pike,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood hazard area
which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either
in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water, or that is
placed where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of
life or property.
Off-Street Loading Space   A space accessible from the street, alley, or way,
in a building or on the lot, for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. Such space shall be of such size as to accommodate
one (1) truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
Open Sales Lot   Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
Ordinary High Water Level   A line delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
Parking Space   An area sufficient in size to store one (1) automobile which
has adequate access to a public street or alley and permitting satisfactory
ingress and egress of an automobile.
Performance Guarantee   A performance bond, cash escrow, letter or credit, or
other acceptable security of monetary value as determined by the Township, held
by the Township to ensure all contingencies, conditions, inspections and
financial obligations have been satisfactorily met as prescribed by this
Ordinance.
Performance Standard   A criterion established to control appearance, noise,
odor, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, glare,
heat, waste and other potential impacts generated by or inherent in uses of
land or building.
Permitted Use   A building, structure or use of land which may be lawfully
established in a particular District or Districts, provided it conforms with
all requirements, regulations, and performance standards, if any, of such
Districts.
Photovoltaic System   An active solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
Planned Unit Development   A type of subdivision and development characterized
by a unified site design for a number of dwelling units on a parcel, also
involving clustering of these units to provide areas of common open space,
density increases, and a mix of structure types and land uses.
Planning Commission   A group of individuals appointed by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors to serve as the planning agency for the Township.
Plat   The drawing, plan or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to Chapter 505 and containing all elements and requirements set forth
in applicable local regulations adopted pursuant to Section 462.358 and Chapter
505.
Principal Use or Structure   The primary or main use of land or buildings as
distinguished from subordinate, incidental or accessory uses.
Public Hearing   An official public meeting for which notice has been published
in the official newspaper of the Township.
Public Waters   Any waters as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 103G.005,
subdivisions 15 and 15a. The official determination of the size and ordinary
high water level of public waters shall be made by the Commissioner of the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
Reach   A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings, would segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings, would most typically constitute a reach.
Recreational Vehicle   A vehicular portable structure used for amusement,
vacation, or recreational activities including but not limited to travel
trailers, motor homes, camping trailers, all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles,
boats, bicycles, and motorcycles.
Regional Flood   A flood which is representative of large floods known to have
occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can be
expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the one hundred
(100) year recurrence interval.
Right-of-Way   Those lands designated and delineated to contain a public or
private roadway, railroad line, bicycle path, walking trail, recreational
trail, or other mode of ground transportation.
Roof or Building Mounted   A solar energy system that is mounted to the roof or
building using Solar Energy Systembrackets, stands or other apparatus.
Typically accessory to the principal land use these may also be used in Solar
Gardens (CSES).
Rural Retail Tourism   Uses that attract travelers or visitors to areas
historically or traditionally used for agricultural purposes, which are
generally small-scale, low- impact, and entertainment, recreation, and/or
education-focused.
Scenic Easement   An interest in land, less than fee title, that limits the use
of the land for the purpose of protecting the scenic, recreational natural
characteristics of areas. Unless otherwise expressly and specifically agreed to
in writing by the parties, the easement shall be: perpetually held for the
benefit of the people of Minnesota; specifically enforceable by its holder or
any beneficiary; and binding on the holder of the servant estate, his heirs,
successors or assigns. Unless expressly provided for in writing between the
parties, no such easement shall give the holder or any beneficiary thereof the
right to enter on the land except for enforcement of the easement rights
granted.
Screening   The presence of vegetation or topography which renders a structure
on any property visually inconspicuous. Examples of screening may include but
are not limited to solid fencing, walls, berms, buildings, grade change or
densely planted evergreen vegetation of appropriate height.
Selective Cutting   The removal of a single scattered tree or single scattered
trees where the original density and crown cover of the stand is essentially
unchanged from pre-cutting conditions.
Semipublic Use   The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
Sensitive Resource Management   The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding, or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
Service lines   All those cables, wires, poles, and appurtenant equipment used
to carry electricity and telecommunication services between distribution lines
and a customer.
Setback   The minimum horizontal distance between a structure or sewage
treatment system and the ordinary high water level, or between a structure or
sewage treatment system and a bluff, road, highway or property line.
Sewage Treatment System   Any equipment or system for the collection, treatment
and dispersion of sewage, including but not limited to septic tanks, holding
tanks, soil absorption systems, and drain fields.
Shore Impact Zone   All land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of fifty (50) percent of
the structure setback.
Shoreland   Land located within the following distances from public water: 1)
one thousand (1,000) feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond,
or flowage; and2) three hundred (300) feet from a river or stream, or the
landward extent of a flood plain designated by ordinance on such a river or
stream, whichever is greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever
the waters involved are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward
from the waters for lesser distances and when approved by the Commissioner of
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
Sign   The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices or trademarks by which
anything is made known such as are used to show an individual, firm,
profession, or business, and are visible to the general public.
Significant Historic Site   Any archaeological site, standing structure, or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes, Section 307.08. A historic site meets these criteria if it
is presently listed on either register or if it is determined to meet the
qualifications for listing after review by the Minnesota state archaeologist or
the director of the Minnesota Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are
automatically considered to be significant historic sites.
Slope   The degree of deviation of surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
Solar Array   Group of solar panels wired together
Solar Collector   A device, structure or a part of a device or structure that
the principal purpose is to transform solar radiant energy into thermal,
mechanical, chemical or electrical energy.
Solar Energy   Radiant energy received from the sun that can be collected in
the form of heat or light by a solar collector.
Solar Energy System (SES)   An active solar energy system that collects or
stores solar energy and transforms solar energy into another form of energy or
transfers heat from a collector to another medium using mechanical, electrical,
thermal or chemical means.
Solar Farm   A utility scale commercial facility that converts sunlight into
electricity, whether by photovoltaics (PV), concentrating solar thermal devices
(CST), or other conversion technology, where the principal purpose of land is
to provide energy to off-site uses or wholesale sales of generated electricity
Solar Hot Water System   A system that includes a solar collector and a heat
exchanger that heats or preheats water for building heating systems or other
hot water needs.
Solar Site Permit   A permit required by the Township for the installation of
certain solar energy systems regulated by this Ordinance.
Steep Slope   Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available County soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this Ordinance. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes exceeding twelve (12) percent over distances of
fifty (50) feet or more, measured on the ground, that are not bluffs.
Story   That portion of a building included beneath the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building, included between the upper surface
of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a usable or unused under-floor space is more than six (6) feet
above grade as defined herein for more than fifty (50) percent of the total
perimeter or is more than twelve (12) feet above grade as defined herein at any
point, such as usable or unused under-floor space shall be considered as a
story.
Story, First   The lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, as
defined herein, except that a floor level in a building having only one floor
level shall be classified as a floor, provided such floor level is not more
than four (4) feet below grade, as defined herein, for more than fifty (50)
percent of the total perimeter, or not more than eight (8) feet below grade, as
defined herein, at any point.
Strip Development   Multiple, detached commercial or retail uses, usually one-
story high and one story deep, that front on a major street.
Structure   A combination of materials to form a construction for use,
occupancy, or ornamentation whether installed on, above, or below the surface
of land or water.
Subdivision   The separation of one or more portions of a lot from another
portion of that lot by deed, metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy,
lease, map, plat or other document, whether recorded or unrecorded, which vests
or otherwise contracts for the conveyance of title, or any interest therein, of
any such portion or portions to a person, persons or an entity other than the
owner of record; provided that the term subdivision shall not be construed to
apply to a mortgage against a parcel complying with the minimum dimensional
requirements herein: scenic easements, easements for the installation,
construction and maintenance of public utilities, and easements of road access.
Substandard Structure   Any structure established before the effective date of
this ordinance which is permitted within a particular zoning District but does
not meet the structure setbacks or other dimensional standards of the
ordinance.
Substandard Use   Any use existing prior to the date of this Ordinance which is
permitted within the applicable zoning District but does not meet the minimum
lot area, frontage, setbacks, water frontage length, or other dimensional
standards of this Ordinance.
Surface Water-oriented Commercial Use   The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
Toe of the Bluff   The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from gentler to steeper slope above.
If no break in the slope is apparent, the toe of the bluff shall be determined
to be the lower end of a fifty (50) foot segment, measured on the ground, with
an average slope exceeding eighteen (18) percent.
Top of the Bluff   The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
If no break in the slope is apparent, the top of the bluff shall be determined
to be the upper end of a fifty (50) foot segment, measured on the ground, with
an average slope exceeding eighteen (18) percent.
Tower   Any ground-mounted or roof-mounted pole, spire, structure, or
combination thereof, taller than fifty (50) feet, including supporting lines,
cables, wires, braces, and mast, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting
an antenna, meteorological device or similar apparatus above grade.
Transmission lines   Those cables, wires, poles, and appurtenant equipment
generally rated at sixty-nine (69) kilovolts and above, and used to carry
electricity from points of generation to distribution points such as
substations and distribution lines.
Transmission Services   Electric power, telecommunication and petroleum product
lines, cables, conduits and pipelines that are used to transport large blocks
of power, convey intelligence, or transport material between two points. A
distribution line, cable, conduit or pipeline used to convey power, water, gas
or other essential services locally to utility customers is not a transmission
service.
Use   The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the performance standards of this Ordinance.
Useable Open Space   A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and/or equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
useable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guests. Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreation purpose. Roofs, driveways, and parking areas shall not constitute
useable open space.
Variance   Any modification or variation of official controls where it is
determined that, by reason of exceptional circumstances, the strict enforcement
of the official controls would cause unnecessary hardship.
Waterbody   An area of water lying within a depression of land or expanded part
of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water either seasonally or
perennially and is surrounded by land.
Watercourse   A channel or depression through which water flows, such as
rivers, streams, or creeks, and may flow year around or intermittently.
Watershed   The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
Watershed Management or Flood Control Structure   A berm, dam, floodwall,
wingdam, dike, diversion channel, or an artificially deepened or widened stream
channel following the same or approximately the same course as the natural
channel, or any other structure for altering or regulating the natural flow
condition of a river or stream. The term "watershed management or flood control
structure" does not include pilings, retaining walls, gabion baskets, rock
riprap, or other facilities intended primarily to prevent erosion and which
must be authorized by permit from the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources.
Wetland   Any lands as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 103G.005,
subdivision 19. These lands are transitional between terrestrial and aquatic
systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is
covered by shallow water.
Yard   An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A yard extends along a lot line at right angles to
such lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
Yard, Front   A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side lot
lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of the
building.
Yard, Rear   A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
Yard, Side   A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
Zoning Administrator   A person or persons appointed by the Town Board of
Supervisors to administer and enforce this Ordinance.
Zoning Map   The Official Zoning Map adopted by the Town Board, which is hereby
incorporated into this ordinance as part thereof, and as amended, for the
purpose of designating Land Use or zoning Districts.
SECTION 4. GENERAL PROVISIONS
4.01   Scope and Interpretation
   A.   Relation to Comprehensive Plan.
   It is the policy of Lent Township that the enforcement, amendment, and
administration of this Ordinance be accomplished with due consideration of the
recommendations contained in the Township's Comprehensive Plan as the policy
for responsibility to regulate land use and development.
   B.   Standard Requirements.
   Where the conditions imposed by any provisions of this Ordinance are either
more or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by other ordinance,
rule or regulation of the County, State or Federal government, the ordinance,
rule or regulation which imposes the more restrictive condition, standard, or
requirements shall prevail. In the event of any conflict between this Ordinance
with any private restrictions, protections and covenants, the provisions of
this Ordinance shall apply.
   C.   Minimum Requirements.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this Ordinance
shall be held at least to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare.
   D.   Conformity with Provisions.
   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, altered
or placed, and no structure or land shall be used for any purpose nor in any
manner which is not in conformity with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   E.   Building Permit and Certificate of Compliance.
   Except as herein provided, no building, structure or premises shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be granted that does
not conform to the requirements of this Ordinance or the Minnesota State
Building Code, as amended. In addition, no building, structure or premises
intended for human habitation or connected to an on- site sewage treatment or
community/municipal sewage treatment system shall be occupied or used until a
Certificate of Compliance has been issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   A Certificate of Compliance shall be required for all structures and
accessory structures meeting any of the following criteria:
      ∙   All new buildings or structures intended for human habitation
      ∙   Any building or structure connected to an on-site sewage treatment or
community/municipal sewage treatment system
      ∙   Any new construction of an accessory structure or use which requires
the issuance of a building permit
      ∙   Any addition, to a principal or accessory structure or building,
which encroaches further into yard setbacks.
   F.   Conditional Uses, Interim Uses, Variances, Amendments.
   Nothing within this Ordinance shall be construed so to deny any property
owner his right to apply for a conditional or interim use permit, variance, or
amendment to this Ordinance. No conditional use, interim use, variance or
amendment is valid without formal review, public hearing and approval by Lent
Township.
   G.   Uses Not Provided for Within Zoning Districts.
   Whenever in any zoning District a use is neither specifically permitted nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case the Board or the
Planning Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a
study to determine if the use is acceptable, and if so, determine the
appropriate zoning District and conditions and standards for the development of
the use. The Board, Planning Commission or property owner shall, if
appropriate, initiate an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance to provide for the
particular use under consideration or shall find that the use is not compatible
for development within the Township.
   H.   Separability.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of Lent Township that the several
provisions of this Ordinance are separable in accordance with the following:
      1.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge any provision of
this Ordinance to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provision of this Ordinance not specifically included in said judgment.
      2.   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall judge invalid the
application of any provision of the Ordinance to a particular property,
building, or structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in said judgment.
   I.   Rules.
   The language set forth in the text of this Ordinance shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
      1.   The singular number includes the plural, the plural the singular.
      2.   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
      3.   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive.
      4.   The masculine gender includes the feminine.
4.02   Permits, Applications, Licenses and Services
   A.   Building/Construction Permits.
      1.   Building Permit. Building permits are issued to cover all structures
regulated by the State Building Code.
      2.   Site Permit. Site permits are issued for agricultural buildings to
insure proper setbacks.
      3.   Temporary Manufactured Home Permit. Temporary Manufactured Home
Permits may be issued in hardship situations involving, emergency situations
where a previously occupied dwelling has been destroyed or rendered unlivable
due to fire, flood, storm damage or other catastrophe, or where the landowner
demonstrates to the Zoning Administrator, a housing need for medical hardship
reasons exists to care for the elderly parents or dependents of the Family
occupying the principal dwelling, as provided in Section 4.11 of this
Ordinance.
      4.   Grading or Filling Permit. Grading or filling permits are issued to
regulate the grading, placing of fill, or any alterations of the natural
topography within the Shoreland Overlay District. An Administrative Grading
Permit is required for any grading project regardless of zoning designation
which is designed to add depth to create buildable area, or for any grading
activity that would occur within a drainage and utility easement with the
following possible exemptions:
         (a)   Grading projects subject to the conditional and interim use
permit requirements
         (b)   Grading projects that meet the criteria established for the
development of land, or construction of public roadways
         (c)   Grading activities that will disturb less than 40 cubic yards of
earth material and are not within a drainage and utility easement
      The following are submittal requirements for an administrative grading
permit: The following information shall be submitted to the Township along with
the applicable application:
         (a)   Scaled site plan that includes:
            1.   Limits of disturbance
            2.   Proposed contours
            3.   Any other information deemed necessary by the Township
         (b)   Application fee and escrow. An application fee and escrow
payment, as established in the rates and charges, shall be required.
      5.   Sewage Treatment System Permit. Sewage treatment system permits are
issued to regulate the installation, repair or alteration of all on-site sewage
treatment systems.
      6.   Driveway Permit. Driveway permits are issued to regulate the
installation of new driveways accessing State, County, Township or other public
roads.
      7.   Sign Permit. Sign permits are issued to regulate signs as set forth
in this Ordinance.
      8.   Right-of-Way Permit. Right-of-way permits are issued to regulate
essential and transmission services as set forth in this Ordinance.
      9.   Solar Site Permit. Permit issues to regulate the installation of
certain solar energy systems regulated by Section 4.18.
   B.   Zoning and Planning Applications.
      1.   Appeal Application. An appeal application allows for the appealing
of a decision of the Zoning Administrator, to the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals for their review on some provisions of this Ordinance.
      2.   Conditional Use Permit. A conditional use application requests a use
permitted in a particular zoning District, but regulated and controlled through
conditions placed upon it by the Board after review by the Planning Commission.
      3.   Variance Application. A variance application allows for a request to
vary from the terms of this Ordinance and is decided by the Board of
Adjustments and Appeals.
      4.   Preliminary Plat. The preliminary plat is an application and plan to
subdivide property in accordance with Subdivision Ordinance.
      5.   Zoning Amendment. A zoning amendment requests a change in the zoning
District boundaries or provisions of this Ordinance.
      6.   Park (Platting) Fee. A fee which is requested when there is no land
designated in a plat as "park" land.
      7.   Interim Use Permit. An interim use application requests a use
permitted in a particular Zoning District, but regulated and controlled through
conditions and a specific timeline as placed upon it by the Board after review
by the Planning Commission.
   C.   License Required.
      1.   Septic Installer. Persons engaging in the installation of septic
systems must be licensed by the State of Minnesota.
      2.   Sewer Pumpers. Persons engaged in the pumping of septic tanks or
holding tanks must be licensed by the State of Minnesota.
   D.   Services.
      1.   Structure Inspection. Inspections are made by a designated Township
inspector of any structures proposed to be moved into the Township for
compliance with applicable codes.
      2.   Sewage Treatment System Inspection. Inspections are made by a
designated Township inspector prior to a transfer of title to determine if an
on-site sewage treatment system is conforming to applicable regulations.
4.03   Nonconforming Structures and Uses
   A.   Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this Section to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those requirements,
circumstances and conditions under which nonconforming buildings, structures,
and uses will be operated and maintained. This Ordinance establishes separate
Land Use or Zoning Districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the
location of uses which are permitted in that District. It is necessary and
consistent with the establishment of these Districts that nonconforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this Section to provide for the
gradual elimination of nonconformities.
   B.   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of this
Ordinance shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon such date except as hereinafter specified or
subsequently amended.
   C.   No nonconforming building, structure or use shall be moved to another
lot or to any other part of the parcel, land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted at the time of this Ordinance adoption, unless
such movement shall bring the nonconformance into compliance with the
requirements of this Ordinance.
   D.   When any lawful nonconforming use of any structure or land in any
District has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any nonconforming use.
   E.   A lawful nonconforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to lessen the nonconformity of use. Once a nonconforming structure or
parcel of land has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
   F.   If at any time a nonconforming building, structure or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of fifty (50%) percent or more of its current fair
market value, said value to be determined by the Chisago County Assessor, then
without further action by the Township, the building and the land on which such
building was located or maintained shall, from and after the date of said
destruction, be subject to all the regulations specified by this Ordinance for
the District in which such land and buildings are located. Any building which
is damaged to an extent of less than fifty (50) percent of its value may be
restored to its former extent, provided appropriate permits are obtained.
   G.   Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of a structure or land is
discontinued for a period of one (1) year, any future use of said structure or
land shall be made to conform with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   H.   Normal maintenance of a building or other lawful nonconforming use is
permitted, including necessary non- structural repairs and incidental
alterations which do not physically extend or intensify the nonconforming use,
providing the necessary repairs shall not constitute fifty (50) percent or more
of fair market value of such structure. Said value shall be determined by the
Chisago County Assessor.
   I.   Registration of pre-existing uses.
      1.   All lawful agricultural, commercial and residential uses, and home
occupations that have been in operation and/or use for at least one (1) full
year prior to the date of adoption of this Ordinance and have not previously
received appropriate land use permits, shall be eligible to register as a pre-
existing use for the purposes of this ordinance;
      2.   The owners or operators of such uses shall have a period of six (6)
months, commencing from the effective date of this ordinance, during which they
may register their use with the Zoning Administrator;
      3.   All owners or operators registering their pre-existing use shall
also file a report with the Zoning Administrator documenting the exact nature,
scope and full operating details of their use;
      4.   All lawful agricultural, commercial and residential uses, and home
occupations registered pursuant to this Section shall be allowed to continue in
operation, including operation by subsequent owners, provided no alterations,
enlargement or expansion is made to the originally registered use as described
in the report submitted to the Zoning Administrator;
      5.   The Zoning Administrator shall provide all owners or operators
registered pursuant to this Section with a certificate of compliance
identifying their use as a registered pre-existing use;
      6.   Should a registered pre-existing use be altered, discontinued,
enlarged or expanded, the registration and recognition of the pre-existing use
shall become null and void. Any alterations, enlargement or expansion of such
use shall then become subject to all applicable provisions of this Ordinance.
4.04   Home Occupations
   A.   Purpose.
   It is the purpose of this subdivision to provide for the conditional use of
the home as a place for the operation of a business or profession, provided the
occupation is clearly secondary to the principal use of the home as a
residence.
   B.   Permitted Home Occupations.
   Home occupations which do not require additional parking, an accessory
building, or generate a noticeable increase in traffic shall be permitted use
as specified in Sections 5.07 and 5.08. Such home occupations may include
architects, artists, clergymen, clothing alterations, consulting services,
domestic craftsmaking and similar uses as determined by the Planning
Commission.
   C.   Interim Use Permit Required.
   Home occupations which have the potential for generating a noticeable
increase in traffic, require additional parking or the use of an accessory
building, shall require an interim use permit as specified in Sections 5.06
through 5.08. Such home occupations may include barber shops, beauty salons,
antique and gift shops, machine and manufacturing shops, clothing shops, ,
museums, storage of recreational vehicles or equipment, and similar uses as
determined by the Planning Commission.
   D.   Performance Standards.
   All home occupations shall conform to the following standards:
      1.   Conduct of the home occupation does not require alterations to the
exterior of the residence which substantially alters the appearance of the
dwelling as a residence.
      2.   Only those persons residing in the home and one other person or
full-time equivalent may be employed within the home.
      3.   Signage shall consist of no more than one (1) single or double-faced
sign with a maximum area of eight (8) square feet per side in the Rural
Residential District and sixteen (16) square feet per side in the Urban Growth
and Rural Transit Center Districts.
      4.   No outdoor display or goods are permitted.
      5.   Should the occupation be teaching, classes shall not exceed ten (10)
students at any one time.
      6.   Should the home occupation be repair or manufacturing, the items
repaired or manufactured shall be of a size or nature that repair or
manufacture can occur within the home, or an accessory structure to the
principal use as allowed by this Ordinance.
      7.   No outside storage is permitted.
      8.   An accessory structure may be utilized in conjunction with the home
occupation only for the purpose of holding equipment used off the site for the
storage of goods or articles produced or used by the occupant of the principal
structure.
      9.   The home occupation shall not generate sewage of a nature or type
that cannot be treated by a standard on-site sewage system or hazardous wastes
without an approved plan for off-site disposal.
   E.   Special Exceptions for Home Occupations
   Home Occupations which do not meet the standards outlined in Section 4.04.D
may be eligible for a Special Exception Home Occupation Permit. Special
Exception Home Occupation Permits are available to those parcels zoned
Residential Business Overlay, generally located along Forest Boulevard and are
north of 340th Street and south of 360th Street. Such home occupations may
include barber shops, beauty salons, antique and gift shops, machine and
manufacturing shops, clothing shops, museums, storage of recreational vehicles
or equipment, and similar uses as deemed appropriate by the Planning
Commission. Performance standards are specified in Section 6.07.F of this code.
   F.   Review by Planning Commission.
   When deemed appropriate, the Zoning Administrator may bring a proposal or
existing home occupation to the attention of the Planning Commission at which
time the Planning Commission may permit the use or hold such public hearings,
request such information, or require such conditions as deemed necessary to
ensure compliance with these performance criteria.
4.05   Essential Services and Transmission Services
   A.   Authority.
   This Section shall apply to all essential services, including distribution
and transmission lines of less than 100 kilovolts in size and transmission
lines of 100 kilovolts and above, but less than 200 kilovolts, for which the
Township has received a request for a permit. In some cases, State and Federal
law may regulate certain types or characteristics of essential services
facilities. This section shall be construed to provide the Township with the
maximum control consistent with such other laws.
   B.   Compliance with other regulations and standards.
      1.   All essential services located within or crossing a Township right-
of-way shall conform to Section 4.05 H. Essential services located within or
crossing County, State or Federal public rights-of-way shall comply with other
applicable right-of-way standards. Towers, structures and lines located
entirely within an existing public right-of-way for which Chisago County has
previously issued a conditional use or right-of-way permit are exempt from
obtaining a conditional use permit, but must comply with the other standards
and requirements of this Section.
      2.   All essential services, including towers, poles, accessory
structures, and lines shall be designed and constructed in accordance with all
provisions of this Ordinance and all applicable State and Federal codes,
regulations, plans, and application requirements, including but not limited to
State energy and transmission planning requirements, State need and reliability
studies and determinations. Where Federal or State government does not have
jurisdiction to determine need for a project, or where it exempts from or
elects not to accept jurisdiction for a need determination, such that no need
determination has been made, the Township may determine need for the project.
   C.   Notice Required.
      1.   The construction, relocation or improvement of essential and
transmission services as defined by this Ordinance may directly affect the
maintenance and use of public road right-of-way, access to public and private
lands, land uses, highway location, park and recreation areas, preservation of
natural environmental areas, lakes, streams and rivers.
      2.   Prior to undertaking any construction, relocation or improvement of
essential and transmission services as defined by this Ordinance, the owner or
contractor for such service shall issue written notice to the Town Clerk and
all affected landowners.
   D.   Conditional Use Permit Required.
   Transmission services, essential services or bulk gas or fuel facilities are
conditional uses in all zoning Districts and shall follow the following
procedure.
      1.   The owner shall file with the Township Zoning Administrator an
application for a Conditional Use Permit, pursuant to Section 8.05. In addition
to the submittal requirements in Section 8.05, the applicant shall file the
following information:
         a.   Environmental review documentation, which may be required under
mandatory, discretionary or special rules of the Environmental Quality Board.
         b.   Certificate of Need, if required.
         c.   Maps showing the proposed location, alignment and easement or
right-of-way dimensions.
         d.   List of all property owners within three hundred fifty (350) feet
of the proposed easement or right-of-way.
         e.   Maps showing the locations of all lakes, streams, rivers,
drainage ditches, utilities, pipelines, essential services, transmission
services, residences, businesses, public buildings, structures, parks and all
existing land uses within three hundred fifty (350) feet of the proposed
easement or right-of-way.
         f.   Construction plans, grading plans, soil erosion and sedimentation
control plans, wetland mitigation plans, street crossing plans and water body
crossing plans.
         g.   A description of the types and quantities of all vegetation
removed during construction, within temporary and permanent easement areas.
         h.   A facility management and site maintenance plan.
         i.   An emergency response plan.
         j.   A Facility Management Plan to include but not be limited to the
following:
            (1)   A description of the need for the facility.
            (2)   A description of alternative facility or corridor locations
considered but not chosen and the reason(s) for not selecting alternative
locations.
            (3)   A description of all potential environmental and aesthetic
impacts resulting from the proposed action and a description of proposed
mitigation plans.
            (4)   A list of all vegetation lost in the construction of the
facility, the plan for revegetation and the plan for maintaining vegetation
after construction. The vegetation maintenance plan shall include alternative
methods of maintaining vegetation, including relocation.
            (5)   A description and location of proposed warning or safety
signs associated with the project.
            (6)   For electrical generation facilities or substations, noise
modeling and a description of alternative visual and auditory screening methods
and landscaping provisions.
            (7)   For electrical facilities, electrical and magnetic field
modeling, radio frequency modeling, corona, a description of potential EMF and
stray voltage impacts and mitigation alternatives.
            (8)   A list and timeline of all permits, licenses and approvals
required and associated entities involved in the review and authorization of
the project.
            (9)   A Statement of compliance with all laws and regulations and
oversight provisions affecting the project and provision of associated permits,
including but not limited to Certificate of Need, required State or Federal
environmental review and State transmission planning priority list placement.
            (10)   Emergency Response Plan.
      2.   All maps and accompanying data submitted to the Zoning Administrator
shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
conduct a public hearing consistent with the procedure for conditional uses as
set forth in Section 8.05. In addition to the notice requirements of Section
8.05, prompt notice of the receipt of an application for a conditional use
permit for a transmission line shall be given. Notice shall be published in the
official newspaper of the Township. Written notice shall be sent to the County
and any municipality located within two (2) miles of the affected property.
Written notice shall also be sent to all property owners of record within three
thousand (3,000) feet of the affected property or the nearest ten (10)
properties, whichever would provide notice to the greatest number of owners. A
copy of the notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the
notice was sent shall be attested to by the Zoning Administrator and made a
part of the official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners, or defects in the notice, including Township ordinance
notification provisions that may exceed State law, shall not invalidate the
proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has
been made.
      3.   Following such hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a report
of its findings and recommendations on the proposed services regarding the
compliance with required standards, the factors set forth in Section 8.05, and
the relationship to urban growth, land uses, highways, scenic protection,
environmental protection, water resources protection and park areas, and shall
file such report with the Town Board. In evaluating the factors set forth in
Section 8.05, the Planning Commission and Town Board may consider the benefits
of the proposed service to the Township and the adverse impacts, if any, to the
Township, its residents, businesses and landowners. A conditional use permit
may be denied if the adverse impacts outweigh the benefits and the
   Town Board makes such a finding. In its deliberations on new or upgraded
essential or transmission services corridors, the Planning Commission and Town
Board shall consider the following hierarchy of preferences, listed in
descending order:
         a.   Avoid corridors in Special Management Overlay Districts.
         b.   Bury lines in Special Management Overlay Districts.
         c.   Upgrade existing corridors.
         d.   Bury lines in new corridors.
         e.   Locate new corridors contiguous with existing corridors.
         f.   Locate new corridors contiguous with existing road rights-of-way.
         g.   Locate new corridors along parcel boundaries and minimize the
bisection of parcels.
      4.   Upon receipt of the report of the Planning Commission of the planned
essential services, the Town Board shall consider recommendations of the
Planning Commission, maps and accompanying data and shall grant or deny the
application. If granted, the conditional use permit may include conditions or
modifications to mitigate potential adverse impacts, including but not limited
to:
         a.   Requiring adequate setbacks from existing highway rights-of-way
to guarantee adequate areas for highway improvements.
         b.   Requiring adequate setbacks from or requiring the essential
service or transmission service to be buried underground a minimum of three
hundred and fifty (350) feet from any lake, river, stream, park, school, church
or public building.
         c.   Requiring tree replanting on a one for one, similar size basis,
within areas identified by the Township, of all trees removed from the proposed
right-of-way.
         d.   Requiring that the maintenance of the easement or right-of-way
shall be accomplished by selective planting, manual trimming and without the
use of chemicals.
         e.   Such other reasonable conditions as may be necessary or
appropriate to mitigate economic, aesthetic, environmental, health or safety
impacts of the proposed service.
      5.   Recognizing a need for timely and adequate service by owners of
essential services, the Township shall act upon all information filing within
sixty (60) days of receipt by the Zoning Administrator. In the process of
deliberation, the Town Board can call upon such sources of information public
or private as it deems necessary to clarify problems and otherwise provide
information necessary to reach a decision.
   E.   Transmission Line Standards.
      1.   In the Rural Residential District and applicable Special Overlay
Districts, transmission lines within one mile of a city that require
undergrounding of transmission lines shall be reviewed for burial. Economic
considerations alone shall not render underground placement not feasible.
      2.   Towers, poles, structures and lines shall be located to minimize
visibility.
      3.   All transmission line towers, poles, structures and lines situated
in whole or in part outside of a public road right- of-way require adequate
setbacks from existing rights-of-way to ensure safety and to provide adequate
area for road improvements.
      4.   To the maximum extent practical, new transmission line corridors
shall be avoided in all Special Overlay Districts.
      5.   If granted, a Conditional Use Permit for transmission lines may
include conditions or modifications to mitigate potential adverse impacts,
including but not limited to the following setbacks for transmission line
towers, poles, and accessory structures:
         a.   Set back one-quarter (1/4) mile from a bluff line.
         b.   Set back one-quarter (1/4) mile from any lake or river.
         c.   Set back from the Sunrise River such that the towers, poles, and
accessory structures are not visible from the opposite bank of the river at the
ordinary high-water level, provided that this setback shall not be required to
exceed one and one-half (1-1/2) miles.
      6.   No business or advertising signs shall be installed on a tower, pole
or structure. Guy lines are prohibited when a feasible alternative exists.
Whenever practical lines and towers shall be placed adjacent to and parallel
with existing property boundary lines, agricultural field boundaries, and
natural division lines. The loss of agricultural land and significant
environmental and natural areas shall be avoided or held to a minimum. No
transmission line towers, poles, or accessory structures shall be designed,
arranged, or constructed in such a way that will prevent a farm operator from
cultivating the land. Selective clearing techniques shall be used throughout
the length and width of any utility easement or corridor. Existing native
vegetation shall be maintained, when and wherever possible. All trees that are
removed must be replaced consistent with a reforestation plan approved by the
Town Board. Towers, poles, and accessory structures must be constructed of
material and color approved by the Town Board to best blend in with their
surroundings. Construction of a new transmission line that detrimentally
impacts the public health, safety and general welfare in a manner that cannot
be mitigated shall be denied.
   F.   Distribution Line Standards.
      1.   In the Rural Residential and Special Overlay Districts distribution
lines within one (1) mile of a city that requires undergrounding of
distribution lines shall be reviewed for burial.
      2.   Poles and lines shall be located to minimize visibility.
      3.   All distribution line poles situated in whole or in part outside of
a public right-of-way require adequate setbacks from existing rights-of-way to
ensure safety and to provide adequate area for road improvements.
      4.   To the maximum extent practical, new above-ground distribution line
corridors shall be avoided in all Special Overlay Districts. If granted, a
Conditional Use Permit for distribution lines may include conditions or
modifications to mitigate potential adverse impacts, including but not limited
to the following setbacks for distribution line poles and accessory structures:
         a.   one-quarter (1/4) mile from a bluff line.
         b.   one-quarter (1/4) mile from any lake or river.
      5.   Guy lines are prohibited when a feasible alternative exists.
      6.   Whenever practical lines and poles shall be placed adjacent to and
parallel with existing property boundary lines, agricultural field boundaries,
and natural division lines.
      7.   Whenever practical upgrades of existing above ground distribution
lines shall be buried underground.
      8.   The loss of agricultural land and significant environmental and
natural areas shall be avoided or held to a minimum. No lines shall be
designed, arranged, or constructed in such a way that will prevent a farm
operator from cultivating the land. Selective clearing techniques shall be used
throughout the length and width of any utility easement or corridor. Existing
native vegetation shall be maintained, when and wherever possible. A
reforestation plan, mitigating excessive tree loss, shall be required for
review and approval by the Town Board.
   G.   Appurtenant Facilities Standards.
   If appurtenant equipment or facilities occupy more than one hundred and
twenty (120) square feet of ground area, they must be enclosed in a building if
it is feasible to do so. Appurtenant equipment or facilities must be approved
as part of a conditional use permit if installed in conjunction with a
transmission line requiring a conditional use permit, or if a conditional use
permit is not required by separate site plan approval unless exempt under
Section 4.05 A.
   H.   Township Right-of-Way Standards.
      1.   Permit required.
   Prior to undertaking any construction, relocation or improvement of
essential and transmission services as defined by this Ordinance, the owner or
contractor for such service shall obtain a Right-of-Way Permit from the Town
Clerk.
      2.   Performance Standards.
   All construction, relocation or improvement activities taking place within
the right-of-way of a Township Road shall comply with the following standards:
      a.   Any blocking or diversion of traffic shall be limited to the minimum
duration and reasonable time of day required to complete the work;
      b.   Any blocking or diversion of traffic shall require the use of
appropriate traffic control procedures and warning signs/devices;
      c.   Any blocking or diversion of traffic exceeding four (4) hours shall
require the construction of a temporary bypass; d. No cables, wires, poles or
other materials shall be placed or left in a position that will block or impede
normal access or traffic;
      e.   Where the construction, relocation or improvement activities will
require the temporary removal or modification of a culvert or other drainage
structure, prior to the commencement of any work, the applicant shall provide
the Township with a Performance Guarantee in the amount of 125% of the
estimated cost of repairing or replacing the removed or modified culvert or
drainage structure;
      f.   All disturbed slopes and soils shall be seeded and mulched upon
completion of all permitted work in order to prevent erosion;
      f.   The Township Road right-of-way shall be fully restored to its
original condition and dimensions upon completion of all permitted work and
shall be inspected by the Township to confirm full compliance.
4.06   Yard Regulations
   A.   General Statement.
   No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension so as to
make such yard or open space less than a minimum required by this Ordinance. If
the existing yard or other open space is less than the minimum required, it
shall not be further reduced. No required yard or open space allocated to a
structure or parcel of land in compliance with this ordinance shall be used to
satisfy yard or open spaces or minimum lot area requirements for any other
structure or land.
   B.   Yard Requirements.
   The minimum yard setback distances from the appropriate lot line are set
forth within the District provisions of this Ordinance.
      1.   Corner Lots. Where a lot is located at the intersection of two (2)
or more streets, the width of the yard along the street shall not be less than
thirty (30) feet. On a corner lot, nothing shall be placed or allowed to grow
in such a manner as to materially impede vision between a height of two and
one-half (2½) and ten (10) feet above street level for a distance of thirty
(30) feet from intersecting streets.
      2.   Through Lots. On a lot fronting on two (2) parallel streets, both
street lines shall be front lot lines for applying the yard regulations of this
Ordinance.
      3.   Earth Sheltered Buildings. Computations for yard requirements shall
be based upon measurements from the exposed exterior surface of the building.
      4.   Exceptions. The following shall not be considered as encroachment
into yard setback requirements.
         a.   Architectural projections including chimneys, flues, leaders,
sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, mechanical devices, cornices,
eaves, gutters, and the like, provided they do not extend more than three (3)
feet.
         b.   Yard lights and signs, provided they are located three (3) feet
or more from all lot lines. Lights for illuminated parking or loading areas or
yards for safety and security purposes may be installed where necessary
provided that glare is not visible from public rights-of-way or adjacent
residential property.
         c.   Off-street parking spaces except as hereinafter regulated.
         d.   Fencing or buffering materials except as hereinafter regulated.
         e.   In front and side yards: balconies that extend a distance of four
(4) feet or less, provided they are seven (7) feet or more above grade at the
building line. Also, steps, terraces, driveways, stoops, decks and patios which
do not extend in elevation above the ground floor level of the principal
building or to a distance of less than five (5) feet from any lot line.
         f.   In rear yards: recreational and laundry drying equipment, picnic
tables, open arbors and trellises, balconies, breezeways, porches, detached
outdoor living rooms and decks, and outdoor eating facilities are allowed,
provided these are not less than five (5) feet from any lot line.
4.07   Building Requirements
   A.   Building Size and Architectural Requirements.
   The following building size and architectural standards shall apply to all
Districts unless otherwise specified.
      1.   Height Exceptions. The building height limits established for
belfries, cupolas, domes, spires, monuments, airway beacons, radio or
television towers, flag poles, chimneys, flues, elevators, water tanks, poles,
towers and other similar structures extending above the roof of any buildings
and not occupying more than twenty- five (25%) percent of the total roof area
shall be fifty (50) feet; except as otherwise regulated herein.
      2.   Architectural Requirements. The following architectural requirements
shall apply to all dwellings, except in permitted manufactured home parks.
         a.   Dwellings shall have a width of not less than twenty (20) feet.
         b.   Dwellings shall be placed on a permanent foundation forming a
complete enclosure under exterior walls.
         c.   Exterior walls shall have the appearance of wood or masonry
regardless of their actual composition.
         d.   All dwellings shall be constructed on site or be prefabricated
and assembled on site.
      3.   Minimum Ground Floor Area. The ground floor area for any dwelling
shall be at least nine hundred sixty (960) square feet.
      4.   Maximum Total Lot Coverage. The total area of all buildings shall
not exceed more than fifty (50%) percent of the total lot area.
   B.   Structures Prohibited for Habitation.
   Except where specifically permitted in this Ordinance, no person may occupy
or inhabit any structure not specifically designed for human habitation,
including, but not limited to, accessory buildings, tents, campers, makeshift
structures, or any structures designed for habitation but without plumbing,
heating and ventilation systems or electricity.
4.08   Accessory Structures and Uses
   A.   For lots zoned RR-A, the following standards shall apply:
      1.   For lots or parcels less than ten (10) acres no more than three (3)
accessory structures shall be permitted.
      2.   For lots or parcels of at least ten (10) acres or larger, no more
than one (1) accessory structure per two (2) acres of land.
      3.   The maximum combined footprint for accessory structures on any lot
or parcel shall be two percent (2%) of the lot or parcel acreage or two
thousand (2,000) square feet, whichever is greater.
      4.   The height of the accessory structure shall not exceed thirty-five
(35) feet and by one story in height, or two stories with the second story
consisting entirely of unfinished storage space.
   B.   For lots located within the Rural Residential I (RR-I), Rural
Residential II (RR-II) or Urban Growth (UG) districts the following standards
shall apply:
      1.   No more than two (2) accessory structures shall be permitted per
lot;
      2.   The maximum combined footprint for accessory structures shall be two
percent (2%) of the lot or parcel acreage or two thousand (2,000) square feet,
whichever is greater.
      3.   The height elevation of any accessory building shall not exceed the
height elevation of the principal structure.
      4.   Agricultural Buildings, per the definition in this ordinance, shall
not be permitted within the RR-I, RR-II and UG zoning district.
      5.   The height of the accessory structure shall not exceed the height of
the principal structure.
   C.   Accessory buildings and structures that do not require a building
permit pursuant to Item F below, shall be located five (5) feet or more from
property lines, except as otherwise provided for in Sections 4.07 and 4.09. The
setbacks for accessory structures with a footprint greater than or equal to
five thousand (5,000) square feet shall be established by the Planning
Commission prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   D.   No sanitary facilities are permitted within an accessory building prior
to the construction of the principal structure, and no sanitary facilities
shall be permitted within any accessory structure where they are intended to
facilitate human habitation.
   E.   No accessory building or structure other than a fence, a temporary
construction office, or a temporary Manufactured Home in accordance with
Section 4.11 of this Ordinance and any other applicable Sections of this
Ordinance, shall be permitted on any lot without a principal structure.
   F.   Accessory buildings larger than one hundred twenty (120) square feet
shall require a certificate of compliance and building permit.
   G.   Garages. A detached garage, when there is no garage attached to the
principal building, which is 960 square feet or less in size shall not count as
one of the accessory buildings or in calculating the square footage limitation
as long as the detached garage exterior matches the exterior materials, design
and color of the principal building.
   H.   The architectural design and appearance of all accessory buildings, and
structures shall comply with the following standards:
      1.   When located in front of the principal structure the following
standards shall apply:
         a.   For parcels zoned Rural Residential - Agricultural (RR-A), Rural
Residential I (RR-I), Urban Growth (UG), or for properties which are greater
than five (5.0) acres in size and zoned Rural Residential II (RR-II) the
accessory building shall meet the following standards:
            i.   The exterior appearance and color of the accessory building
shall have boxed eaves and match the architecture of the principal dwelling
unit located on the lot.
      2.   When located behind the principal structure the following standards
shall apply:
         a.   For properties zoned Rural Residential - Agricultural (RR-A), or
for properties which are greater than five (5.0) acres in size and zoned Rural
Residential II (RR-II) the accessory building shall meet the following
standards:
            i.   The exterior appearance and color of the accessory building
shall match the general architecture of the principal dwelling unit located on
the lot.
         b.   For properties zoned Urban Growth (UG), Rural Residential I (RR-
I), or for properties which are less than five (5.0) acres in size and zoned
Rural Residential II (RR-II) the accessory building shall meet the following
standards:
            i.   The exterior appearance and color of the accessory building
shall have boxed eaves and match the architecture of the principal dwelling
unit located on the lot.
            ii.   The accessory structure elevation shall not exceed that of
the principal structure.
   I.   Commercial and Industrial Accessory Structures located within the RTC.
The following additional standards shall apply to commercial and industrial
accessory structures:
      1.      Accessory structure standards shall be calculated consistent with
Section A of this ordinance, where the primary location of business operation
is deemed the Principal Structure, provided the accessory structures are used
for storage related to the principal use of the property. No separate business
is allowed from any accessory structure.
      2.      The accessory structure(s) shall be placed to the rear of the
principal building and must conform with applicable setback requirements.
   J.   The commercial storage of recreational structures, including fish
houses, shall be considered a commercial use and subject to the requirements
for commercial uses.
   K.   No land shall be subdivided so as to have a larger building and/or
exceed the total number of buildings as permitted by this section. The square
footage of a building is calculated based upon the footprint of the foundation
or main floor, whichever is larger, and includes any overhangs which are
supported by posts or additional foundation support.
   L.   No garage, cellar, tent, trailer, basement or accessory structure shall
be used as a dwelling unit, except temporary manufactured homes as regulated in
this Ordinance.
   M.   Temporary structures must be securely anchored and meet all required
setbacks, and shall not count as part of the allowable square footage per lot.
Temporary structures that due to deterioration or damage no longer provide the
use for which they were intended must be removed.
   N.   All in-ground pools and permanent above-ground pools shall be
considered an accessory use and shall be
subject to the same conditions and regulations as defined herein, but shall not
count towards the maximum allowable square footage per lot, total number
allowed, or maximum allowable square footage as defined within this ordinance.
Construction of pools shall be subject to the most recent regulations as
defined by in the Minnesota State Building Code.
4.09   Fences
   A.   Fences in all districts are subject to the following:
      1.   No fences shall be permitted on public rights-of-way.
      2.   Fences may be placed along property lines provided no physical
damage of any kind results to abutting property. The entire fence including any
post footings must be entirely within the fence owner's property.
      3.   Property owner shall locate and expose property pins to verify
property line location, or if property pins cannot be found, the property owner
shall have the property corners identified and marked by a licensed surveyor in
the State of Minnesota.
      4.   Fences over six (6) feet in height from the finished grade shall
require a building permit in addition to any other required permits.
   B.   Fences in the Rural Residential - Agriculture (RR-A) district are
subject to the following:
      1.   Chain link, livestock, or similar wire fences may exceed 6 feet in
height.
   C.   Fences in the Rural Residential - I (RR-I) and Rural Residential - II
(RR-II) districts are subject to the following:
      1.   That side of the fence considered to be the face (finished side as
opposed to structural supports) shall face abutting property.
      2.   Fences may be located on side or rear lot lines to a height of four
(4) feet above finished grade.
      3.   Fences which meet side and rear setback requirements, including
setback from ordinary high- water mark, shall not exceed six (6) feet in height
from finished grade.
      4.   Fences within the front non-buildable setback area shall not exceed
thirty-six (36) inches in height, except chain link fences, which do not
obstruct vehicular sight lines, may be five (5) feet in height.
   D.   Fences in Rural Transit Center (RTC) Districts are subject to the
following:
      1.   Fences may be erected on the lot line to a height of eight (8) feet
from finished grade.
4.10   Lots of Record
A lot of record is a lot which is part of a subdivision or plat, an Auditor's
Subdivision or a Registered Land Survey or a parcel of land not so platted,
which has been approved by the Town Board or meets the following conditions:
   A.   Was a separate parcel of record on April 1, 1945 or was the subject of
a written agreement to convey entered into prior to such time;
   B.   Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half (2½) acres in
area and one hundred fifty (150) feet in width on January 1, 1966; or
   C.   Was a separate parcel of not less than five (5) acres in area and three
hundred (300) feet in width on July 1, 1980; or
   D.   Is a single parcel of land currently zoned for commercial or industrial
purposes of not less than five (5) acres and having a width not less than three
hundred (300) feet and its conveyance does not result in the division of the
parcel into two (2) or more lots or parcels, any one of which is less than five
(5) acres in area or three hundred (300) feet in width; or
   E.   Is a single parcel of land currently zoned for residential or
agricultural purposes of not less than twenty (20) acres and having a width not
less than five hundred (500) feet and its conveyance does not result in the
division of the parcel into two (2) or more lots or parcels, any one of which
is less than twenty (20) acres in area or five hundred (500) feet in width.
4.11   Temporary Manufactured Homes and Mobile Homes
   A.   Prohibition. No person shall park, store, use or occupy a Manufactured
Home or mobile home on the premises or a lot with any dwelling or any land
which is situated outside of an approved mobile home park except as listed in
this Section or in this Ordinance.
   B.   Use Allowed.
      1.   It is the purpose of this Section to allow for the temporary
placement of a Manufactured Home in urgent hardship situations involving,
emergency situations where a previously occupied dwelling has been destroyed or
rendered unlivable due to fire, flood, storm damage or other catastrophe, or
where the landowner demonstrates to the Zoning Administrator, a housing need
for medical hardship reasons exists to care for the elderly parents or
dependents of the Family occupying the principal dwelling.
      2.   Temporary Manufactured Home Permit Required.
         A Temporary Manufactured Home Permit shall be required for the
temporary placement of a Manufactured Home as allowed under this Section. The
application for the permit shall contain the information required for
conditional use permits in Section 8.05 of this Ordinance. Upon determination
that the application meets the requirements of this Section and any other
applicable sections of this Ordinance, the Zoning Administrator may issue said
permit.
      3.   Conditions for Issuance of Temporary Manufactured Home Permit.
         A Temporary Manufactured Home Permit shall be valid for twelve (12)
months. The Zoning Administrator may extend the temporary Manufactured Home
Permit for additional twelve (12) month periods if the landowner requests such
extension, in writing, and demonstrates the urgent hardship for which the
Temporary Manufactured Home Permit was issued, continues to persist. The
Temporary Manufactured Home Permit allows a temporary Manufactured Home to be
placed and occupied on the same site as the original or existing dwelling,
provided the following conditions are met:
         a.   The Temporary Manufactured Home shall be affixed in accordance
with the manufacture's specifications except that they may not be placed on a
permanent foundation; and
         b.   No separate sewage or water facilities are permitted, and an
adequate and approved on-site sewage treatment system has been installed or
exists on the site to service the temporary Manufactured Home, and an approved
compliance inspection has been completed; and
         c.   The temporary Manufactured Home conforms to the construction and
safety standards promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development which are in effect at the time of the Manufactured Home's
manufacture and the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 327, as
amended; and
         d.   A five thousand dollar ($5,000) cash escrow is posted as part of
the application, to ensure removal of the temporary Manufactured Home when the
approved use ceases; and
         e.   The temporary Manufactured Home and parking spaces shall adhere
to all applicable provisions for the underlying zoning district and shall only
utilize the permitted access driveway.
         f.   If the Temporary Manufactured Home Permit is issued pursuant to a
request for an urgent hardship involving a loss of the principal structure as
described in this Section, the landowner shall submit an application for a
building permit to rebuild or repair the original dwelling within ninety (90)
days of receiving a Temporary Manufactured Home Permit.
         g.   If the Temporary Manufactured Home Permit is issued pursuant to a
request for a medical hardship reason, the following additional conditions must
be met:
            (i).   The landowner shall submit a doctor's report indicating the
need for a closely supervised independent living arrangement; and
            (ii).   The occupant(s) must be closely related to the occupants of
the principal residence or have been legally designated ward(s)/guardian(s) of
said occupant(s); and
            (iii).   The Temporary Manufactured Home must be located on the
same parcel of land as the permanent dwelling, and in close proximity to the
dwelling.
   C.   All other applications for temporary Manufactured Homes not meeting the
above conditions may be submitted by the landowner as a conditional use,
variance, or other appropriate process as provided in this Ordinance.
4.12   Off-Street Parking and Loading
   A.   Parking of Commercial Vehicles or Equipment.
   No commercial vehicles or equipment, exceeding nine thousand (9,000) pounds
gross weight, shall be parked, stored, or otherwise continued in the Rural
Residential and Urban Growth Districts for more than a maximum of twenty-four
(24) hours unless in a completely enclosed structure or unless they are being
used in conjunction with a legitimate service being rendered for the benefit of
the residential premises.
   B.   Parking of Recreational Vehicles and Placement of Recreational
Structures on Unimproved Property.
   Travel trailers, campers, tents, motor homes, and other vehicles or
structures which are adaptable or have been adapted for living and may be
reasonably transported, may be used for dwelling purposes or stored on the
premises for a period not to exceed thirty (30) consecutive days or more than
thirty (30) days of a sixty (60) day period. Only one recreational vehicle may
be placed on a parcel or lot, except for short term periods such as family
reunions and visits which do not exceed a period of 48 hours.
   C.   Maintenance.
   It shall be the joint responsibility of the lessee and/or owner of the
principal use of a building to maintain in a neat and adequate manner, the
parking area, striping, landscaping and screening.
   D.   Use of Parking Area.
   Required off-street parking spaces in any District shall not be utilized for
open storage of goods or for the storage of vehicles which are inoperable or
for sale or for rent.
   E.   Control of Off-Street Parking Facilities.
   Any accessory off-street parking facilities that are provided elsewhere than
on the lot in which the principal use served is located shall be in the same
ownership or control either by deed or long-term lease, as the property
occupied by such principal use. In addition, the owner of the principal use
shall file a recordable document with the Town Board requiring the owner and
his/her heirs and assigns to maintain the required number of off-street spaces
during the existence of said principal use.
4.13   Abandoned Vehicles
   No person in charge or control of any property shall allow any partially
dismantled, inoperative, wrecked or junked vehicle to remain on the property
longer than thirty (30) days where said vehicle is visible from a public road
or the main floor of any dwelling; nor shall they allow any unlicensed vehicle,
capable of being operated, to remain on such property if such vehicle has been
unlicensed in both the current and preceding year, except as a vehicle used on
the property without the requirement of a license.
4.14   Signs
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this section is to regulate the location, size, placement and
certain features of signs to enable the
public to locate goods, services and facilities; to prevent competition for
attention; to prevent hazards to life and property; and to protect the natural
roadside aesthetics throughout Lent Township.
   B.   Permits Required.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance, no sign shall be erected,
constructed, altered, rebuilt, or relocated until a permit for the sign has
been issued. However, no permit will be required under this Ordinance for the
following signs:
      1.   Real estate sales signs under nine (9) square feet in area on
residential properties which are for sale.
      2.   Real estate signs under thirty-two (32) square feet in area on
commercial and industrial properties which are for sale.
      3.   Political signs.
      4.   Public information and directional signs.
      5.   Traffic/Construction signs
      6.   Address/location signs or numbers less than two (2) square feet in
total or combined area.
   C.   Prohibited Signs.
   No sign shall be erected or maintained:
      1.   Which purports to be or resembles an official traffic control
device, sign, or signal or railroad sign or signal; or which hides from view or
interferes in any material degree with the effectiveness of any traffic control
device, sign, or signal, or railroad sign or signal, or which obstructs or
interferes with the driver's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting
traffic.
      2.   Which prominently displays the word "stop" or "danger".
      3.   Which contains statements, words, or pictures of an obscene,
indecent, or immoral character, or such as would offend public morals or
decency.
      4.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs shall be
placed in or upon public waters.
      5.   On any right-of-way of any highway, except as otherwise provided by
law or as allowed in this Ordinance, or allowed by the Commissioner of the
Minnesota Department of Transportation.
      6.   If any part of such sign extends more than six (6) feet over the
public right-of-way, and is less than eight (8) feet above ground level.
Canopies and marquees shall be considered an integral part of the structure to
which they are attached. This Section does not apply to signs posted by duly
constituted public authorities in the performance of their public duties.
      7.   On private land without the written consent of the owner thereof and
in conformance with this Ordinance.
      8.   On trees, shrubs, or which are painted or drawn upon rocks or
natural features, or on any public fences or utility poles.
      9.   Which have lights or beacons directed skyward.
      10.   Which has flashing or moving lights, except as specifically
permitted in this Ordinance.
      11.   Which is structurally unsafe and would have to be removed.
   D.   General Provisions.
   The following requirements shall apply to all signs in all Districts.
      1.   Signs painted on a building shall be governed by the square footage
limitations specified in the appropriate zoning Districts. These shall be
repainted when required, to be kept in good condition, and shall be repainted,
removed or painted out when they are not so maintained.
      2.   Signs shall not obstruct any window, door, fire escape, stairway or
opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress for any building or
structure.
      3.   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign and the owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which a sign
is located.
      4.   Signs which may be or may hereafter become rotted, unsafe or
unsightly shall be repaired or removed by the owner or lessee of the property
upon which the sign stands upon notice by the Zoning Administrator.
      5.   Political signs are allowed in any District, on private property,
with the consent of the owner of the property. Such signs must be removed
within seven (7) days following the date of the election or elections to which
they apply.
      6.   In any District, banners, ribbons, flags, animal displays,
inflatables, pieces of sculpture, fountains or other displays or features which
do not clearly fall within the definition of a sign, but which direct attention
to an object, product, activity, person, institution, organization or business,
shall require a sign permit. Mobile signs on wheels or otherwise capable of
being moved from place to place shall conform to the provisions of this
Ordinance just as permanently affixed signs.
      7.   Illuminated signs shall be diffused or indirect so as not to direct
rays of light skyward, into adjacent property or onto any public street or
right-of-way.
      8.   Real estate sales signs may be placed in any yard providing such
signs only advertise the sale of that particular property.
      9.   Real estate development project sales signs may be erected for the
purpose of selling or promoting a real estate development project.
         a.   Such signs shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in
area.
         b.   Only one (1) such sign shall be erected on each road frontage
with a maximum of three (3) such signs per
         c.   project.
         d.   Such signs shall be removed when the project is eighty (80%)
percent completed, sold or leased.
         e.   Such signs shall not be located closer than one hundred (100)
feet from any existing residence.
      11.   Construction signs shall not be erected before issuance of a
building permit or remain after issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      12.   Banners, pennants, ribbons, flags, beacons and temporary signs may
be used for grand openings, special events and holidays, but must be removed
after the event or a maximum of ten (10) days, whichever is shorter. No
business or property may utilize such signs more than three times in a calendar
year.
      13.   The regulations contained herein do not apply to signs painted,
attached by adhesive or otherwise attached directly to or visible through
windows and glass portions of doors.
      14.   In all areas utilizing a uniform street and numbering system, a
number sign legible from the road shall be required for residences and
businesses.
      15.   Multi-faced signs shall not exceed two (2) times the allowed square
footage of single-faced signs.
      16.   No sign shall exceed eighty (80) square feet in area.
   E.   Signs in the Rural Residential and Urban Growth Districts.
   The following signs are permitted and regulations established for the Rural
Residential and Urban Growth Districts:
      1.   Nameplate, address, real estate sales and development, public,
political, identification, informational, institutional, business, directional,
construction, temporary and agricultural crop demonstration signs.
      2.   One (1) of each type of sign is allowed per lot frontage, except
political signs where one (1) per each candidate is permitted, and agricultural
demonstration sign where one (1) for each demonstration plot is permitted, or
as hereinafter allowed.
      3.   Sign Size and Location Requirements.
         a.   Nameplate signs shall not exceed ten (10) square feet in area.
         b.   Temporary construction signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in area.
         c.   Real estate signs shall not exceed nine (9) square feet and
temporary real estate development project signs
         d.   shall not exceed eighty (80) square feet.
         e.   Crop identification signs shall not exceed ten (10) square feet
in area or ten (10) feet in height.
      4.   Business signs, located on premises, for permitted uses, subject to
the following provisions:
         a.   No more than one (1) freestanding sign of not more than thirty-
five (35) square feet in surface area and no more than fifteen (15) feet in
height above the average grade.
         b.   No more than one (1) flat wall sign, which shall not exceed
thirty-five (35) square feet in surface area.
   F.   Signs in the Rural Transit Center District.
   The following signs are permitted and regulations established for the Rural
Transit Center District:
      1.   Signs as permitted and regulated in the Rural Residential and Urban
Growth Districts.
      2.   Business signs, located on premises, subject to the following
provisions:
         a.   A maximum of one (1) freestanding sign not exceeding twenty (20)
feet in height or eighty (80) square feet in area, located on the premises.
         b.   Flush mounted or wall painted signs, not exceeding fifteen (15)
percent of a single wall area.
         c.   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not
exceed the sum of three hundred (300) square feet.
         d.   No signs shall project above the roof of a structure.
         e.   Directional signs on the premises, not exceeding three (3) square
feet in area or six (6) feet in height.
         f.   Electronic changeable message signs, displaying only the time and
temperature.
         g.   One (1) freestanding sign for each multiple tenant business
development owned or managed as a single center or development, not exceeding
eighty (80) square feet in area or twenty (20) feet in height.
         h.   Each multiple tenant center, in which individual businesses will
utilize wall signs, must design a wall sign concept for the entire center, to
promote individual sign compatibility, sign area equity and ensure ordinance
compliance.
   G.   Signs in the Natural Resource Preservation District.
   No signs shall be permitted within the Natural Resource Preservation
District, except for signs erected by the Federal, State, County or Township
Governments for transportation and safety purposes and signs erected or
authorized by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
   H.   Specific Service and Tourism Signs.
      1.   Specific service and tourist-oriented business signs, as defined in
M.S. Section 160.292, are permitted subject to the purposes and requirements
established in M.S. Section 160.283, Section 160.285 and Sections 160.292-
160.296.
      2.   Specific service signs and tourist- oriented business signs shall be
administered by the Zoning Administrator, County Engineer and State
Commissioner of Transportation.
      3.   No signs permitted in this section shall exceed eighty (80) square
feet in area or twenty (20) feet in height.
   I.   Off-Premise Signs.
      1.   An off-premise advertising sign is a sign that directs attention to
a business, product, service, sale, activity or entertainment not conducted on
the premises on which the sign is located.
      2.   Except as otherwise specifically permitted in this Ordinance, off-
premise advertising signs are regulated as follows:
         a.   All off-premise advertising signs shall require a conditional use
permit.
         b.   Off-premise advertising signs shall be considered a principal use
of property and may not occupy any parcel with an existing structure or use.
         c.   One (1) off-premise advertising sign is permitted per parcel, not
exceeding eighty (80) square feet in area or twenty (20) feet in height.
         d.   An off-premise advertising sign shall not be located closer than
two thousand (2000) feet from another off-premise advertising sign.
4.15   Driveways and Access Aprons
   A.   A driveway permit shall be obtained prior to the construction,
enlargement, installation or replacement of all driveways, service ways,
private roads or other accesses which connect to a public road right-of-way.
Applications for driveway permits, applicable design standards and requirements
and other informational material shall be available from the Zoning
Administrator.
   B.   Every driveway shall be connected to a public road right-of-way by an
apron which meets the following requirements:
      1.   Each lot of record is permitted one driveway, regardless of the
width of lot frontage, to access a property from any public road right-of-way.
The driveway accessing a residential structure shall be setback a minimum of
five (5) feet from any property line, except that property line which is
crossed to gain access.
      2.   The ratio for driveways on an individual lot accessing a Township
Road shall not exceed one (1) driveway for every one hundred and sixty-five
(165) feet of frontage. The lot frontage shall be calculated per roadway, and
lots with frontage on two intersecting roadways (corner-lot) may not be
combined to meet the minimum frontage requirements. The number of driveways
accessing a county or state road shall be required to meet the most current
regulations of the agency which has jurisdiction over the roadway.
         a.   On Township roads, a maximum of one extra driveway that would
exceed the ratio of one (1) driveway per every one hundred and sixty-five (165)
feet of frontage will be permitted on a lot affronting a township road for the
sole purpose of providing access to a detached accessory building.
         b.   The extra driveway will require an approved driveway permit which
will be reviewed by Township Staff for the creation of possible hazardous
conditions created by the propped extra access.
         c.   The extra driveway must be set back a minimum of twenty (20) feet
from an existing driveway as well as any property line, except that property
line which is crossed to gain access.
         d.   The driveway, including the driveway apron, will be required to
meet Township design standards.
      3.   On corner lots, driveways shall be setback a minimum of fifty (50)
feet from the lot-lines where the two roadways intersect. Vegetation and other
visual screening shall be subject to the requirements in section 4.06B(1).
      4.   Shared driveways shall be permitted with an executed shared driveway
agreement between the lot owners. The shared driveway shall meet the standards
defined in section (4.15.B.1). Any additional driveways proposed per lot shall
be required to meet the standards defined in (4.15.B2).
      5.   The driveway apron shall extend from the right-of-way line to the
edge of the public road surface, and shall be not less than eighteen (18) feet
nor more than twenty-four (24) feet in width, with a side slope not steeper
than four (4) feet horizontal to one (1) foot vertical;
   C.   A culvert shall be installed wherever the construction, improvement or
replacement of any driveway, service way, private road or other access
intersects, crosses or joins upon any public road right-of-way and would
divert, impede, impound or in any way obstruct the natural drainage of surface
waters.
      1.   All culverts shall be installed in full compliance with design
standards and specifications established by resolution adopted by the Town
Board
      2.   The exact culvert dimensions shall be determined by an inspector
designated by the Town Board
   D.   All driveway aprons and culverts shall be inspected before and after
construction, installation or replacement.
   E.   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a new residential
structure until a driveway permit has been obtained and all inspections have
been completed.
   F.   Where a culvert is required, the applicant shall post a cash escrow in
the amount of one thousand dollars ($1,000) prior to the commencement of any
work on the driveway apron or culvert.
      1.   Where the nature of a project, or the soils or road conditions at or
near the project site warrant, the Town Board may, by resolution, increase the
amount required pursuant to this Section.
      2.   In the event a driveway apron or culvert is improperly installed or
damaged, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of such deficiency
in writing. The applicant shall have twenty (20) days from the receipt of such
notice to correct such deficiency and bring the driveway apron and culvert into
full compliance. If the driveway apron and culvert are not brought into
compliance within twenty (20) days of such notice, then the Township may expend
the cash escrow posted pursuant to this Section in order to complete the work
or repairs. If the cost of construction of repairs undertaken by the Township
exceeds the amounts posted by cash escrow, the applicant shall remain
responsible for all excess costs.
      3.   Any cash escrow posted pursuant to this Section shall be deposited
with the Town Treasurer and held by the Township until the final completion and
inspection of all construction, repair or replacement work being undertaken at
the property, whether or not such work is strictly limited to the driveway and/
or culvert. The applicant shall receive a full refund of any amounts not
expended by the Township in the enforcement of this section.
4.16   Dangerous Exotic Animals
   The keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of any
dangerous exotic animal within Lent Township shall be in accordance with
applicable Ordinances and standards adopted and enforced by Chisago County.
4.17   Transfer of Development Rights
   The use of transferred development rights or credits to achieve smaller lot
sizes or increased development density, not conforming with this Ordinance,
shall be prohibited.
4.18   Solar Energy Systems
   1.   General Provisions
      A.   Purpose and Intent - Lent Township finds that the development of
solar energy systems should be balanced with the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare of the public. The Township resolves that the
following standards shall be adopted to ensure that solar energy systems and
solar energy farms can be constructed within Lent Township while protecting
public safety and the natural resources of the Township. Lent Township finds
that it is in the public interest to encourage the use and development of
renewable energy systems that enhance energy conservation efforts but result in
limited adverse impact on nearby properties. As such, the Township supports the
use of solar energy collection systems and the development of solar energy
farms.
      B.   Severability - The provisions of this Section shall be severable and
the invalidity of any paragraph, subparagraph or subdivision thereof shall not
make void any other paragraph, subparagraph or subdivision of this section.
      C.   Applicability - These regulations shall apply to all solar energy
systems and solar energy farms on properties and structures under the
jurisdiction of Lent Township.
   2.   Solar Energy Systems Allowed by District:
 
Rooftop/      Ground Mount  CSES (Solar   Solar Farm         Use with an IUP
Architectural               Gardens)
                                          Accessory or
RRA           Accessory Use Accessory Use Principal Use with Principal
                                          an IUP
RRI           Accessory Use Accessory Use Not Allowed        Not Allowed
RRII          Accessory Use Accessory Use Not Allowed        Not Allowed
UG            Accessory Use Not Allowed   Not Allowed        Not Allowed
RTC           Accessory Use Not Allowed   Not Allowed        Not Allowed
NRP           Not Allowed   Not Allowed   Not Allowed        Not Allowed
 
   3.   Rooftop or other Architecturally-Integrated Solar Energy Systems:
      A.   The owner or contractor shall obtain a building permit before
installing a rooftop or other architecturally-integrated solar energy system.
      B.   Commercial rooftop or other architecturally-integrated systems shall
be placed on the roof to blend into the roof design, to limit visibility from
the public right-of-way and adjacent properties, provided that minimizing
visibility still allows the property owner to reasonably capture solar energy.
      C.   Ground equipment associated with rooftop energy systems shall adhere
to the same setback requirements as equipment for ground mount solar energy
systems.
   4.   Accessory Ground-mount solar energy systems:
      A.   Ground-mount systems require a Building Permit.
      B.   Ground-mount systems do not count as an accessory structure for the
purpose of meeting limits on the total square footage or number of accessory
structures allowed in its respective district.
      C.   No ground-mounted solar energy system shall cover or encompass more
than 2 percent of the lot or parcel acreage or two thousand (2,000) square
feet, whichever is greater.
      D.   Dimensional Standards for ground mount solar panels and all
associated equipment.
Dimensional Standard Distance (feet) Height (feet)
Dimensional Standard        Distance (feet) Height (feet)
Side Yard Setback           10
Rear Yard Setback           10
County (CSAH) Road*         150
Township Road*              100
City or Private Road*       100
Panel Height (At full tilt)                 12
*Setbacks from roadways shall be measured from the centerline of the traveled
roadway.
 
      E.   Screening: All accessory ground-mount solar energy systems shall be
screened from adjacent residential properties and right-of-way by vegetation
that provides year-round coverage. If existing screening in the form of
vegetation that provides year-round coverage or site topography is such that it
provides the required screening from adjacent residential properties and right-
of-way, the screening requirement may be waived or reduced at the discretion of
the Planning Commission.
   1.   Vegetative screening shall consist of an offset double row of evergreen
trees (or other tree, shrub, or bush that provides year-round coverage) that
will be six (6) feet in height at installation and reach a minimum of twelve
(12) feet at maturity.
   2.   All vegetative screening shall be installed prior to instillation of
any components of the solar array.
      F.   Fencing: Any fencing around the ground-mount solar energy systems
shall consist of metal or wood and contain no barbed wire. If chain link
fencing is used it shall be coated in black vinyl to minimize the visual effect
of the fence.
   5.   Community Solar Energy Systems (CSES/Solar Gardens):
      A.   CSES/Solar Gardens shall be located on parcels of land no less than
twenty (20) acres in size and which are zoned Rural Residential - Agriculture
(RR-A).
      B.   Community Workshop. Prior to an application being deemed complete,
an Applicant shall be required to hold a community workshop at the Lent Town
Hall for the proposed project.
      1.   Applicant shall send a notice of the community workshop to all
property owners within 1,000 feet of the boundary for which the project is
proposed to be located. Such notices shall be sent to residents no less than
two (2) weeks in advance of the community workshop.
      2.   The Applicant shall supply the Township with a map of properties to
which notices were sent and a copy of the mailing list for which letters were
sent.
   C.   An Interim Use Permit (IUP) shall be required.
   D.   A building permit shall be required and shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and Town Board.
   E.   Construction may only occur Monday through Friday between the hours of
8:00am and 5:00pm. No work may be completed on federal holidays.
      1.   Failure to adhere will result in the following actions:
      a.   1st violation - $250.00
      b.   2nd violation - $500.00
      c.   3rd violation - $1,000.00 and review of and possible revocation of
IUP
   F.   Prohibited Districts: The Township prohibits CSES's within the
following districts:
      1.   Shoreland Districts as designated by the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) and the Lent Township Shoreland Management Overlay, Carlos
Avery Overlay, and Sunrise River Overlay.
      2.   Within Six Hundred (600) feet of areas designated or formally
protected from development by Federal, State or County agencies as wildlife
habitat, wildlife management areas or designated as National Wild and Scenic
land or corridor;
      3.   Wetlands, to the extent prohibited by the Minnesota Wetland
Conservation Act;
      4.   FEMA established Floodplains.
   G.   Dimensional Standards: All solar panels and their associated equipment
such as metering pads, transformers, and batteries for energy storage shall
meet the following standards:
 
Dimensional Standard                           Distance (feet) Height (feet)
Side Yard Setback                              50
Rear Yard Setback                              50
County (CSAH), Township, City or Private Road* 660
Panel Height (At full tilt)                                    12
*Setbacks from roadways shall be measured from the centerline of the traveled
roadway.
 
   I.   Screening: All Community Solar Energy Systems (CSES/Solar Gardens) and
their components such as transformers, metering pads, batteries for energy
storage, and similar equipment shall be screened from adjacent residential
properties and right-of-way by vegetation that provides year-round coverage. If
existing screening in the form of vegetation that provides year-round coverage
or site topography is such that it provides the required screening from
adjacent residential properties and right-of-way, the screening requirement may
be waived or reduced at the discretion of the Town Board.
      1.   Vegetative screening shall consist of an offset double row of
evergreen trees (or other tree, shrub, or bush that provides year-round
coverage) that will be six (6) feet in height at installation and reach a
minimum of twelve (12) feet at maturity.
      2.   All vegetative screening shall be installed prior to instillation of
any vertical components of the solar array or its associated equipment.
   J.   Security Fencing: Security fencing shall consist of metal or wood and
contain no barbed wire. If chain link fencing is used it shall be coated in
black vinyl to minimize the visual effect of the fence.
   K.   Power and Communication Lines. All on-site power and communication
lines running between banks of solar panels and buildings shall be buried
underground on premise. The Zoning Administrator may grant exemptions to this
requirement in instances where shallow bedrock, water courses or other elements
of the natural landscape interfere with the ability to bury lines. All overhead
power and communication or transmission lines installed as a result of the
proposed solar garden shall also be buried underground and are subject to the
essential services ordinance Chapter 2, Section 4.05.
   L.   Decommissioning Plan: The owner/operator shall submit a decommissioning
plan for ground- mounted CSES's and Solar Farms to ensure that the owner or
operator properly removes the equipment and facilities upon the end of project
life or after their useful life. The owner or operator shall decommission the
solar panels in the event they are not in use for twelve (12) consecutive
months. The plan shall include provisions for the removal of all structures and
foundations, the removal of all electrical transmission components, the
restoration of soil and vegetation and a soundly-based plan ensuring financial
resources will be available to fully decommission the site.
   The disposal of structures and/or foundations shall meet the requirements of
the Chisago County Solid Waste Ordinance. The owner/operator shall establish an
escrow account in an amount of $20,000.00 plus a 3% escalator for each year of
the requested Interim Use Permit (IUP) to ensure proper decommissioning.
   6.   Solar Farms
      A.   Solar Farms shall be located only within Section 1 of Lent Township.
      B.   Community Workshop. Prior to an application being deemed complete,
an Applicant shall be required to hold a community workshop at the Lent Town
Hall for the proposed project.
      1.   Applicant shall send a notice of the community workshop to all
property owners within 1,000 feet of the boundary for which the project is
proposed to be located. Such notices shall be sent to residents no less than
two (2) weeks in advance of the community workshop.
      2.   The Applicant shall supply the Township with a map of properties to
which notices were sent and a copy of the mailing list for which letters were
sent.
   C.   An Interim Use Permit (IUP) shall be required.
   D.   A building permit shall be required and shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission and Town Board.
   E.   Construction may only occur Monday through Friday between the hours of
8:00am and 5:00pm. No work may be completed on federal holidays.
      1.   Failure to adhere will result in the following actions:
      a.   1st violation - $250.00
      b.   2nd violation - $500.00
      c.   3rd violation - $1,000.00 and review of and possible revocation of
IUP
   F.   Prohibitions: Lent Township prohibits Solar Farms within:
      a.   Shoreland Districts as designated by the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR) and the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance, Chapter 40, Article VI,
Division 16, Shoreland District;
      b.   Within six hundred (600) feet of areas formally designated or
protected from development by Federal, State or County agencies as wildlife
habitat, wildlife management areas or designated as National Wild and Scenic
land or corridor;
      c.   Wetlands to the extent prohibited by the Minnesota Wetland
Conservation Act;
      d.   FEMA established Floodplains.
   G.   Dimensional Standards: All solar panels and their associated equipment
such as metering pads, transformers, and batteries for energy storage shall
meet the following standards:
 
Dimensional Standard                           Distance (feet) Height (feet)
Side Yard Setback                              50
Rear Yard Setback                              50
County (CSAH), Township, City or Private Road* 660
Panel Height (At full tilt)                                    12
*Setbacks from roadways shall be measured from the centerline of the traveled
roadway.
 
   H.   Screening: All Solar Farms and their components such as transformers,
metering pads, batteries for energy storage, and similar equipment shall be
screened from adjacent residential properties and right-of-way by vegetation
that provides year-round coverage. If existing screening in the form of
vegetation that provides year-round coverage or site topography is such that it
provides the required screening from adjacent residential properties and right-
of-way, the screening requirement may be waived or reduced at the discretion of
the Town Board.
      1.   Vegetative screening shall consist of an offset double row of
evergreen trees (or other tree, shrub, or bush that provides year-round
coverage) that will be six (6) feet in height at installation and reach a
minimum of twelve (12) feet at maturity.
      2.   All vegetative screening shall be installed prior to instillation of
any vertical components of the solar array or its associated equipment.
   I.   Corridor Preservation: Natural wildlife, wetland, woodland or other
lineal corridors shall remain open to travel by native fauna, reptilian and
aviale. Perimeter fencing and security measures must accommodate unimpeded
wildlife migration through large solar array development site and areas. Plan
approval may require corridor replacement, relocation, removal, and/or
protection as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   J.   Power and Communication Lines. All on-site power and communication line
running between banks of solar panels buildings shall be buried underground on
premise. The Zoning Administrator may grant exemptions to this requirement in
instances where shallow bedrock, water courses or other elements of the natural
landscape interfere with the ability to bury lines. All overhead power and
communication or transmission lines installed as a result of the proposed solar
farm shall also be buried underground and are subject to the essential services
ordinance Chapter 2, Section 4.05.
   K.   Decommissioning Plan: The owner/operator shall submit a decommissioning
plan for ground- mounted CSES's and Solar Farms to ensure that the owner or
operator properly removes the equipment and facilities upon the end of project
life or after their useful life. The owner or operator shall decommission the
solar panels in the event they are not in use for twelve (12) consecutive
months. The plan shall include provisions for the removal of all structures and
foundations, the removal of all electrical transmission components, the
restoration of soil and vegetation and a soundly-based plan ensuring financial
resources will be available to fully decommission the site. The disposal of
structures and/or foundations shall meet the requirements of the Chisago County
Solid Waste Ordinance. The owner/operator shall establish an escrow account in
an amount of $20,000.00 for each proposed megawatt of production, plus a 3%
escalator for each year of the requested Interim Use Permit (IUP) to ensure
proper decommissioning.
      7.   Additional Standards. In addition to the standards required above,
the following standards shall apply to all Solar Energy Systems.
   A.   Compliance with Building Code. All SES's shall require a building
permit, shall be subject to the approval of the Township Building Official, and
shall be consistent with the State of Minnesota Building Code.
   B.   Compliance with State Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the Minnesota State Electric Code.
   C.   Compliance with State Plumbing Code. Solar thermal systems shall comply
with applicable Minnesota State Plumbing Code requirements.
   D.   Compliance with MN Energy Code.   All SES's shall comply with HVAC-
related requirements of the Energy Code.
   E.   Utility Notification. No grid-intertied photovoltaic system shall be
installed until the owner has submitted notification to the utility company of
the customer's intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator.
Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
   F.   Security and equipment buildings. Security and equipment buildings on
the site of solar farms shall be permitted uses accessory to the solar farm.
   G.   Controlled Access. The owner or operator shall contain all unenclosed
electrical conductors located above ground within structures that control
access.
SECTION 5. ZONING DISTRICT PROVISIONS
5.01   Establishment of Districts
   The following land use or zoning Districts are hereby established within
Lent Township:
   Rural Residential Agricultural (RR-A) Rural Residential I (RR-I)
   Rural Residential II (RR-II) Urban Growth District (UG)
   Rural Transit Center District (RTC)
   Natural Resource Preservation District (NRP)
5.02   Zoning Map
   The locations and boundaries of the districts, except for Special Overlay
Districts, established by this Ordinance are hereby set forth on the Official
Zoning Map adopted by the Town Board, which shall be referred to herein as the
"Zoning Map", a copy of which is on file with the Lent Township Clerk and
posted within the Lent Town Hall. Said map and all of the notations, references
and other information shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if
fully set forth herein and thereby made part of this Ordinance by reference.
5.03   Detachment
   In the event of changes in the Township limits removing territory from the
Township, District boundaries shall be constructed as moving with Township
limits.
5.04   Zoning District Boundaries
   A.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
roads, highways, alleys, or railroad lines shall be construed to follow such
center lines.
   B.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following plotted lot lines shall
be construed as following such lot lines.
   C.   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in shoreline shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the center lines of streams, rivers, lakes or other
bodies of water shall be construed as following such center lines.
   D.   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the Township limits
shall be construed as following such Township limits.
   E.   Where a District boundary line divides a lot, which was in a single
ownership at the time of passage of this Ordinance, the extension of the
regulations for either portion of the lot may be interpreted by the Zoning
Administrator upon request of the owner.
   F.   The exact location of all District boundaries shall be interpreted by
the Zoning Administrator, subject to appeal as provided for within this
Ordinance.
5.05   District Regulations
   The regulations of this Ordinance within each District shall be minimum
regulations, and shall apply uniformly to each class or kind of structure or
land, except as hereinafter provided.
   A.   No buildings, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or occupied,
and no building structure or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in conformity
with all of the regulations herein specified for the District in which it is
located.
   B.   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to: exceed the height or bulk; to accommodate or house a greater number of
families; to occupy a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or
smaller rear yard, front yard, side yards, or other open spaces, than herein
required; or in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance.
   C.   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this Ordinance shall
be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this Ordinance shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this Ordinance.
   D.   Any uses posing a real or potential hazard or threat to public health,
safety or welfare, and uses not specified as permitted, conditional or interim
uses shall be prohibited.
5.06   Rural Residential Agricultural District (RR-A)
   A.   Purpose.
   The RR-A District is intended to provide areas to be utilized for
agriculture and agriculture related uses and low-density residential areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Single family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions
         a.   Each parcel shall contain a minimum buildable area of one (1)
acre.
         b.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on
a public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
         c.      A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of
Section 4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access
strip which is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      2.   Horse keeping at a maximum density of one (1) horse per two and one-
half (2½) acres or two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½) acres.
      3.   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      4.   Farm drainage systems, flood control and watershed structures and
erosion control devices meeting all County, State and Soil Conservation Service
minimum standards.
      5.   Greenhouse or nursery.
      6.   Forestry and sod farming.
      7.   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      8.   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed one stand per farm.
      9.   Daycare and residential facilities as required in Minnesota Statutes
Chapter 462.
      10.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
      11.   Solar energy systems in accordance with Section 4.18.
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
      2.   Conservation subdivisions and planned unit developments in
accordance with Section 7.19.
      3.   Golf courses and commercial outdoor recreation areas that are
similar to public recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf course
and swimming pools.
      4.   Recreational camping areas in accordance with Section 7.20.
      5.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      6.   Public parks for active recreation owned or operated by a government
agency or nonprofit organization and other open space uses including museums or
other buildings of historical significance as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      7.   Local government administration and service buildings.
      8.   Community sewage treatment facilities.
      9.   Agriculture oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      10.   Agriculturally and animal-oriented educational facilities
      11.   Commercial wireless telecommunication services, including towers
and antennae, provided that towers and antennae do not exceed one hundred
ninety-nine (199) feet. See Section 7.28 of Chisago County Zoning Code for
requirements and performance standards.
      12.   Rural Retail Tourism businesses meeting the standards established
within Section 7.25.
      13.   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines and towers not
exceeding fifty (50) feet in height.
      14.   Commercial wireless telecommunication services, including towers
and antennae, provided that towers and antennae do not exceed one hundred
ninety-nine (199) feet.
      15.   Shelter facilities for battered persons operated by a nonprofit
organization.
   D.   Interim Uses.
      1.   Home Occupations in accordance with Section 4.04
      2.   Bed and breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      3.   Commercial grain storage and drying.
      4.   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and non-
profit animal shelters.
      5.   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses where there is a density of more than one (1) horse per two and one-half
(2 ½) acres or more than two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½)
acres.
      6.   Horse barns as a principal or accessory use, provided that the barn
is not intended for use in a commercial equine operation, and contains no
residential living quarters and/or sanitary facilities.
      7.   Temporary equipment placement and operations.
      8.   Asphalt processing operations, storage and staging in accordance
with Section 7.2.
      9.   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from the
earth.
      10.   Personal use airstrips that are exempted from direct, individual
regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and standards.
      11.   Rural Retail Tourism businesses meeting the standards established
within Section 7.25.
      12.   Light construction equipment storage areas associated with a legal
home occupation.
5.07   Rural Residential District II (RR-II)
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the RR-II District is to provide a transition area between
rural residential agricultural areas and higher density rural residential
areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Single family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions
      a.   Each parcel shall contain a minimum buildable area of one (1) acre.
      b.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on a
public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
      c.   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of Section
4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip which
is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      d.   Horse keeping at a maximum density of one (1) horse per two and one-
half (2½) acres   . or two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½)
acres.
      2.   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      3.   Daycare and residential facilities as required in Minnesota Statutes
Chapter 462.
      4.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Two-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
      a.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on a
public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
      b.   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of Section
4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip which
is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      2.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
      3.   Conservation subdivisions and planned unit developments in
accordance with Section 7.19.
      4.   Golf courses and commercial outdoor recreation areas that are
similar to public recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf course
and swimming pools.
      5.   Public parks for active recreation owned or operated by a government
agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses including museums
or other buildings of historical significance.
      6.   Recreational camping areas in accordance with Section 7.20.
      7.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      8.   Local government administration and service buildings.
      9.   Community sewage treatment facilities.
      10.   Greenhouse or nursery.
      11.   Forestry and sod farming.
      12.   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      13.   Agriculture oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      14.   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines and towers not
exceeding fifty (50) feet in height.
   D.   Interim Uses.
      1.   Home Occupations in accordance with Section 4.04
      2.   Bed and breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      3.   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed one stand per parcel.
      4.   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and non-
profit animal shelters.
      5.   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses where there is a density of more than one (1) horse per two and one-half
(2 ½) acres or more than two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½)
acres.
      6.   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from the
earth.
      7.   Personal use airstrips that are exempted from direct, individual
regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and standards.
5.08   Rural Residential District I (RR-I)
   A.   Purpose.
   The RR-I District is intended to provide a transition area between rural
residential agricultural areas and higher density rural residential areas.
   B.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Single family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions
      a.   Each parcel shall contain a minimum buildable area of one (1) acre.
      b.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on a
public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
      c.   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of Section
4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip which
is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      d.      Horse keeping at a maximum density of one (1) horse per two and
one-half (2½) acres   . or two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½)
acres.
      2.   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      3.   Daycare and residential facilities as required in Minnesota Statutes
Chapter 462.
      4.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Two-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
      a.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on a
public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
      b.   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of Section
4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip which
is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      2.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
      3.   Conservation subdivisions and planned unit developments in
accordance with Section 7.19.
      4.   Golf courses and commercial outdoor recreation areas that are
similar to public recreation areas including private campgrounds, golf course
and swimming pools.
      5.   Public parks for active recreation owned or operated by a government
agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses including museums
or other buildings of historical significance.
      6.   Recreational camping areas in accordance with Section 7.20.
      7.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      8.   Local government administration and service buildings.
      9.   Community sewage treatment facilities.
      10.   Greenhouse or nursery.
      11.   Forestry and sod farming.
      12.   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      13.   Agriculture oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      14.   Regional pipelines, power transmission lines and towers not
exceeding fifty (50) feet in height.
   D.   Interim Uses.
      1.   Home Occupations in accordance with Section 4.04
      2.   Bed and breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      3.   Art Studios
      4.   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed one stand per parcel.
      5.   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and non-
profit animal shelters.
   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of horses where
there is a density of more than one (1) horse per two and one-half (2 ½) acres
. or more than two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½) acres.
      6.   Extraction of minerals, sand, gravel, rock, or any material from the
earth.
      7.   Personal use airstrips that are exempted from direct, individual
regulation by the Federal Aviation Administration regulations and standards.
5.09   Urban Growth District
   A.   A Purpose.
   The Urban Growth District is intended to provide for existing and potential
areas for urban expansion where commercial and light industrial uses, and high-
density or multi-family residential uses can be supported by public
infrastructure such as municipal sewage treatment and water supply systems.
   B.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Single family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
      a.   In areas where on-site sewage treatment and/or private water
supplies are to be used, dwellings sites shall not exceed a maximum density of
sixteen (16) residential lots per forty (40) acres, provided each lot contains
a minimum buildable area of one (1) acre.
      b.   In areas served by municipal sewage treatment and water supply
systems, dwellings sites shall not exceed a maximum density of forty (40)
residential lots per forty (40) acres, provided each lot contains a minimum
buildable area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      c.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on a
public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
      d.   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of Section
4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip which
is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      e.   Any parcel less than two and one-half (2½) acres in size in areas
where on-site sewage treatment and/or private water supplies are to be used
shall be subject to the requirements of Section 7.19.
      f.   Any parcel less than one (1) acre in size in areas served by
municipal sewage treatment and water supply systems shall be subject to the
requirements of Section 7.19.
      2.   Two-family dwellings and accessory structures subject to the
following provisions:
      a.   In areas served by municipal sewage treatment and water supply
systems, dwellings sites shall not exceed a maximum density of forty (40)
residential lots per forty (40) acres.
      b.   Each parcel subdivided for residential purposes must contain a
minimum buildable area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet.
      c.   The lot upon which the dwelling is located shall have frontage on a
public road, or access approved as part of a conservation subdivision or
planned unit development.
      d.   A dwelling located on a parcel meeting the conditions of Section
4.10 E. may be permitted access via a private road easement access strip which
is a minimum two (2) rods in width.
      e.   Any parcel less than one (1) acre in size will be subject to the
requirements of Section 7.19.
      3.   Agriculture uses, including farm structures which are accessory to
agriculture uses.
      4.   Greenhouse or nursery.
      5.   Daycare and residential facilities as required in Minnesota Statutes
Chapter 462.
      6.   Home occupations in accordance with Section 4.04.
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
      2.   Conservation subdivisions and planned unit developments in
accordance with Section 7.19.
      3.   Hospitals, convalescent homes, nursing homes, and medical clinics,
where public utilities are available.
      4.   Schools or other educational facilities, where public utilities are
available.
      5.   Churches, chapels, temples, synagogues, and cemeteries.
      6.   Local government administration and service buildings.
      7.   Agriculture oriented businesses such as grain and feed sales,
implement sales, implement repair and the processing and packaging of
agricultural products.
      8.   Superette or convenience grocery stores.
      9.   Self-service gasoline stations.
      10.   Automobile service stations in accordance with Section 7.23.
      11.   Automobile sales in accordance with Section 7.22.
      12.   Drive-in businesses in accordance with Section 7.21.
      13.   Restaurants.
      14.   Hotels and motels.
      15.   Retail and Rental stores.
      16.   General Service and Repair businesses.
      17.   Financial Institutions.
      18.   Offices for Professional Services.
      19.   Recreational vehicle sales and service.
   D.   Interim Uses.
      1.   Home occupations in accordance with Section 4.05.
      2.   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not to
exceed one stand per farm.
      3.   Residential kennels, commercial kennels, veterinary clinics and non-
profit animal shelters.
      4.   Keeping boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses, where the density does not exceed one (1) horse per two and one-half (2
½) acres or two (2) miniature horses per two and one-half (2 ½) acres.
      5.   Bed and Breakfast establishments, as a principal or accessory use.
      6.   Temporary equipment placement and operations.
      7.   Asphalt processing operations, storage and staging in accordance
with Section 7.2.
      8.   Light construction equipment storage areas.
   E.   Prohibited Uses.
   Any uses posing a real or potential hazard or threat to public health,
safety or welfare, and uses not specified as permitted or conditional uses
shall be prohibited.
5.10 Rural Transit Center District
   A.   Purpose.
   The Rural Transit Center District is intended to provide appropriate and
centralized support facilities, and retail and service businesses adjacent to
the Interstate 35 / County Road 17 highway interchange.
   B.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Single family dwellings and accessory structures constructed prior
to 2011 shall be a permitted and conforming use. No new single family dwellings
shall be permitted. Existing structures shall be subject to the use
restrictions as set forth herein.
      2.   Annual agricultural cropping uses
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Public parking and transit facilities, provided:
      a.      Adequate and appropriate on-site waste treatment, storm water
management and water supply systems are utilized.
      b.   If the site is between 2 ½ and 10 acres that no more fifty percent
(50%) of the site is covered by impervious surfaces; and
      c.   If the site is greater than 10 acres, then no more than thirty
percent (30%) of the site is covered by impervious surfaces.
      2.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
      3.   Wildlife areas, forest preserves, public parks owned or operated by
a government agency or nonprofit organization, and other open space uses.
      4.   Hospitals, convalescent homes, nursing homes, and medical clinics,
where public utilities are available.
      5.   Superette or convenience grocery stores.
      6.   Self-service gasoline stations.
      7.   Automobile service stations in accordance with Section 7.23.
      8.   Automobile sales in accordance with Section 7.22.
      9.   Drive-in businesses in accordance with Section 7.21.
      10.   Restaurants.
      11.   Hotels and motels.
      12.   Retail and Rental stores.
      13.   General Service and Repair businesses.
      14.   Financial Institutions.
      15.   Offices for Professional Services.
      16.   Recreational vehicle sales and service.
      17.   Commercial wireless telecommunication services, including towers
and antennae, provided that towers and antennae do not exceed one hundred
ninety-nine (199) feet.
   D.   Interim Uses.
      1.   Farm structures which are accessory or principle to agricultural
uses.
      2.   Farm drainage systems, flood control and watershed structures and
erosion control devices meeting all County, State and Soil Conservation Service
minimum standards.
      3.   Keeping, boarding, breeding, feeding, sheltering or training of
horses, where the density does not exceed one (1) horse per two and one-half (2
½) acres or two (2) miniature horses per two and one- half (2 ½) acres.
      4.   Bed and breakfast establishments as principal or accessory use.
      5.   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands for sale of agricultural
products raised on the premises upon which the stand is located, but not exceed
one stand per farm.
      6.   Greenhouse or nursery.
      7.   Forestry and sod farming.
      8.   Home occupations in accordance with Section 4.04.
      9.   Daycare and residential facilities as required in Minnesota Statutes
Chapter 462.
      10.   Temporary equipment placement and operations.
      11.   Asphalt processing operations, storage and staging in accordance
with Section 7.2
      12.   Light construction equipment storage areas.
      13.   Other uses as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission or Town
Board.
   E.   Prohibited Uses.
   Any uses posing a real or potential hazard or threat to public health,
safety or welfare, and uses not specified as permitted or conditional uses
shall be prohibited.
   F.   Development Standards
      1.   Principal Structure Exterior Building Materials. All exterior wall
finishes on any building shall be one of or a combination of the following
materials:
      a.   Face brick
      b.   Stucco
      c.   Glass
      d.   Wood, provided the surfaces are finished for exterior use
      e.   Natural Stone
      f.   Specifically designed pre-cast concrete units with decorative
material/texture
      g.   Metal paneling only when paired with one or more of the other
approved materials outlined above
      h.   The following exterior materials are prohibited: unadorned pre-
stressed upright concrete panels, unfinished concrete block, galvanized or
unfinished steel, galvalume or unfinished aluminum building (wall or roofs),
pole-type materials, and any face materials which rapidly deteriorate or become
unsightly are not permitted as primary exterior building materials.
      2.   Principal Structure Architectural Standards
      a.   All structures shall have boxed eaves including soffit and fascia
      b.   Articulation of the front customer entry
      c.   Requirements for the side of the building that directly faces a
public road right of way
      i.   A minimum of 15 percent of the façade facing the public right-of-way
shall be glass.
      d.   Accent materials for decorative trims shall consist of materials
comparable in grade and quality to the primary exterior materials.
      e.   Buildings shall be designed with a definable base, middle, and top.
Cornices and parapets are encouraged to define these sections of the building.
      f.   Facades of buildings that total more than 10,000 square feet shall
be visually broken into bays to avoid the appearance of large, blank walls.
Visual breaks in the façade shall be accomplished by alterations in the plain
of the façade; height of the façade; changes in materials, color texture, or
pattern; and/or the addition of columns, pilasters, and/or windows.
      3.   There shall be no off-street parking or outside sales and display
within 20 feet of any street right of way
      4.   Open and outdoor storage areas shall be located in the rear yard or
behind the principal structure and be screened from view from adjacent public
right of way and adjacent properties.
      5.   All signage shall comply with the sign ordinance as shown in Section
4.14.
      6.   Customer parking areas, loading areas, driveways, and traffic
maneuvering areas shall be surfaced with concrete or blacktop and finished with
continuous concrete curbing as recommended by the Township engineer and
reflected on an approved site plan. Any site proposing to install any of the
above-named site improvements is subject to the site plan review process
established within the Township ordinance. Auxiliary parking or overflow
parking areas may be surfaced with compacted aggregate, concrete, or blacktop.
      7.   Minimum Site Landscaping Requirements
      a.   All open space areas of a lot which are not used or improved for
required parking areas, drives or storage shall be landscaped with a
combination of overstory trees, ornamental trees, shrubs, flowers, ground
cover, decorative walks, or other similar site design materials in a quantity
and placement suitable for the site. A reasonable attempt should be made to
preserve as many existing trees as is practicable and to incorporate them into
the development.
      b.   Number of plantings. The minimum number of overstory trees on any
given site shall be as indicated below. These are minimum requirements that are
typically supplemented with other understory trees, shrubs, flowers and ground
covers deemed appropriate for a complete quality landscape treatment of a site.
The complement of trees fulfilling the requirements of this section shall be
not less than 25 percent deciduous and not less than 25 percent coniferous.
 
Type of Planting                Standard
                                1 per 50 lineal feet of site perimeter, or 1
                                tree per 1,000 square feet of building.
Deciduous / coniferous trees    Building expansions require 1 additional tree
                                for each 1,000 square feet of additional
                                building area.
                                1 per 50 feet of site perimeter or 1 per 500
Shrubs                          square feet of building footprint area,
                                whichever is greater.
                                For every 50 feet of public road frontage, one
                                overstory tree shall be planted on the private
Trees along public right of way property adjacent to the public road right of
                                way. Trees shall be planted so that at maturity
                                they do not interfere with roadway sight lines.
 
      c.   Minimum size of plantings. Landscape material shall be of the
following minimum planting size:
 
Landscape Material Size
Deciduous trees    2.5 inches diameter as measured three feet above the ground.
Coniferous trees   6 feet in height
Deciduous shrubs   2 feet in height
Evergreen shrubs   2 feet in height
Ornamental trees   1.5 inches diameter as measured three feet above ground.
 
5.11 Natural Resource Preservation District
   A.   Purpose.
   To ensure that the lands encompassed by the Carlos Avery State Wildlife
Management Area remain in an undeveloped and natural state in perpetuity.
   B.   Permitted Uses.
      1.   Open space uses consistent with the management plans, goals and
objectives established by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources for the
Carlos Avery State Wildlife Management Area.
      2.   Signs consistent with the provisions of Section 4.14G. of this
ordinance.
   C.   Conditional Uses.
      1.   Essential services in accordance with Section 4.05.
   D.   Prohibited Uses.
   Any uses posing a real or potential hazard or threat to public health,
safety or welfare, and uses not specified as permitted or conditional uses
shall be prohibited.
   E.   Amendment Prohibited.
   It is the intent of Lent Township to prohibit any amendment to the land use
regulations or re-delineation of the boundary of the Natural Resource
Preservation District that would result in:
      1.   The subdivision of the lands within the Carlos Avery State Wildlife
Management Area, regardless of the present or future ownership of those lands.
      2.   The establishment of any commercial, industrial or residential
development within the Carlos Avery State Wildlife Management Area, regardless
of the present or future ownership of those lands.
      3.   The diminishment of the physical boundaries of the Natural Resource
Preservation District as they have originally been established at the time this
Ordinance is adopted.
5.12   Dimensional Standards
Zoning District
RR-A RR-II RR-I UG RTC
Zoning District
RR-A        RR-II       RR-I        UG           RTC
Maximum     16 lots per 20 lots per 40 lots per                      
Density     40 acres    40 acres    40 acres
            16 lots per
(single     40 acres                                               
family)     (on-site
            sewer)
                        20 lots per
40 lots per             40 acres    21,500
40 acres    8 lots per  (two        square feet  21,500 square feet
(city       40 acres    family)Mini (single-     (single- family)     
sewer)                  mum         famil y)
                        Buildable
                        Area
1 acre                                                            
            21,500
(two-       square feet                                            
family)     (single-
            family)
1 acre                                                            
            21,500
            square feet
            (on-site
(two-       sewer)      21,500                                      
family)     20,000      square feet
            square feet
            (city
            sewer)
Minimum Lot 2.5 acres   2 acres     1 acre       2 ½ acres (on-site  
Area1                                            sewer)
1 acre
(city       5 acres                                                
sewer)
Minimum Lot 165 feet    165 Feet    165 Feet     200 feet (on-site    
Width1                                           sewer)
100 feet
(city       200 feet                                               
sewer)
Minimum Lot 300 feet    200 feet    200 feet     200 feet (on-site    
Depth1                                           sewer)
150 feet
(city       200 feet                                               
sewer)
Minimum Setback from Centerline of:
County      135 feet    135 feet    135 feet     135 feet            135 feet
(CSAH) Road
Township    73 feet     73 feet     73 feet      73 feet             73 feet
Road
City Street
or Private  63 feet     63 feet     63 feet      63 feet             63 feet
Road
Minimum
Side Yard
Setback     40 feet     20 feet     20 feet      10 feet             10 feet
(Principal
Structure)
Minimum
Rear Yard   50 feet     25 feet     25 feet      25 feet             25 feet
Setback
Maximum
Height of   35 feet     35 feet     35 feet      35 feet             35 feet
Structures
Accessory
Structures                                                        
(Non-Ag
Bldg.)
Side and    20', or 2 x 20', or 2 x 10'          10'                 10'
RearYard    the         the
Setback     height of   height of                                   
            the         the
           sidewall of sidewall of                                 
            the
           structure,  the                                         
            whichever   structure,
           is greater  whichever                                   
                        is
                      greater                                     
                        Not to      Not to                           Not to
                        exceed the  exceed the   Not to exceed the   exceed the
Maximum     35'         height of   height of    height of the       height of
Height                  the         the          principal structure the
                        principal   principal                        principal
                        structure   structure                        structure
Accessory
Structures                                                        
- Ag
Building
Side Yard   40'         40'         NP**         NP**                40'
**Agricultural Buildings are not permitted in the urban growth district or RR-
I per the County regulations.
 
5.13   Zoning Map
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8911d743cf97639ada84ee1ae512b318425c5bad/
IMAGES/0-0-0-715.png]
 
   A.   Exceptions:
      1.   Lot sizes and dimensional standards may be varied through procedures
for conservation subdivisions and planned unit developments.
      2.   Where an easement or right of way line exists, setbacks for
principal and accessory structures shall be measured from that easement or
right of way line the same distance as would be required from the property line
in the zoning district in which the property is located.
      3.   Transmission services, essential services, public utilities, private
utilities and all other similar structures, appurtenances and obstructions
shall be setback a minimum of seventy (70) feet from centerline of all Township
and County roadways.
      4.   Agriculture use structures have no maximum height.
SECTION 6. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT OVERLAY DISTRICTS
6.01   Purpose
   It is the purpose of this section to identify extraordinary standards and
requirements desirable for the protection of special or unique areas within
Lent Township.
6.02   Establishment of Overlay Districts
   The Districts identified in this section are intended to include provisions
which are in addition to or overlay one or more underlying Districts
established in Section 5 of this Ordinance. The Special Overlay Districts in
this section are identified as a uniform corridor width or setback dimension
from an object, such as a river or road, or the Districts may be defined by a
legal description. The following special management Districts are established
in Lent Township:
   Shoreland Management Overlay District Carlos Avery Overlay District
   Sunrise River Overlay District Rural Business Overlay District
6.03   Scope
   In the event any provisions of this section are in conflict with other
provisions of this Ordinance or provisions of other laws, the stricter
provisions shall apply.
6.4 Shoreland Management Overlay District
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Shoreland Management Overlay District is to provide for
the wise development of shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and
enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and natural
environmental values of shorelands, and provide for the wise utilization of
waters and related land resources.
   B.   Statutory Authorization.
   The Shoreland Management Overlay District is established pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in Minnesota Statutes, Sections 103F.201
to 103F.225, Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.2500 - 6120.3900.
   C.   District Application.
   The Shoreland Management Overlay District shall apply to the shorelands of
all public waters identified and classified in Section 6.04. I.
   D.   General considerations and criteria for all land uses.
   In considering the evaluation and issuance of any permits or land use
approvals within the Shoreland Management Overlay District, Lent Township shall
be guided by the following:
      1.   Preservation of natural areas;
      2.   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
      3.   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
      4.   Topographic characteristics;
      5.   Vegetative cover;
      6.   In-water physical characteristics, values, and constraints;
      7.   Recreational use of the surface water;
      8.   Road and service center accessibility;
      9.   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve water and
related land resources;
      10.   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature, requires
location in shoreland areas; and
      11.   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
   E.   Permitted, Interim and Conditional Uses.
   Permitted, interim and conditional uses shall be identical to those allowed
in the underlying zoning District.
   F.   Other Provisions for Various Uses.
      1.   Standards for Commercial, Industrial, Public, and Semipublic Uses.
   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public, or semipublic
uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public waters may be
located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those uses with
water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
      a.   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks, and
other zoning standards in this Ordinance, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures;
      b.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
      c.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs to
convey needed information to the public, subject to the following general
standards:
      (1)   Signs covering public information or safety messages may be placed
in or on public waters by a public authority or under a permit issued by the
Chisago County Sheriff;
      (2)   No signs may be placed within the shore impact zone, except to
convey public information or safety messages. Such signs shall not be located
higher than ten (10) feet above the ground, and must not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet in size.
      (3)   No signs shall be illuminated by artificial lights.
      (4)   All sign regulations contained in Section 4.14 shall apply within
the Shoreland Management Overlay District.
      2.   Agricultural Use Standards
   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture, truck
farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if steep
slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in permanent vegetation
or operated under an approved conservation plan consistent with the field
office technical guides of the Chisago Soil and Water Conservation District or
the United States Soil Conservation Service, as provided by a qualified
individual or agency. The shore impact zone boundary for parcels with permitted
agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and fifty (50) feet from
the ordinary high water level.
      3.   Forest Management Standards.
   The harvesting of timber and associated reforestation must be conducted
consistent with the provisions of the Minnesota Non-point Source Pollution
Assessment-Forestry and the provisions of Water Quality in Forest Management
"Best Management Practices in Minnesota."
      4.   Extractive Use Standards
      a.   All provisions of Section 7.24 of this Ordinance shall apply to
extractive uses within shoreland areas;
      b.   Processing machinery must be located consistent with setback
standards for structures from ordinary high water levels of public waters and
from bluffs;
      c.   Mining of metallic minerals and peat must meet the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes, Sections 93.44 to 93.51.
   G.   Conditional and Interim Uses
   The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions shall apply to
conditional uses within the
   Shoreland Overlay District:
      1.   Evaluation Criteria.
      A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the topographic, vegetation,
and soils conditions on the site must be made to ensure:
      a.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of public
waters, both during and after construction;
      b.   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
      c.   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage treatment;
and
      d.   The types, and uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      2.   Conditions Attached to Conditional Use Permits.
   The Town Board, upon consideration of the criteria listed above and the
purposes of this Ordinance, shall attach conditions to the issuance of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
Ordinance. Conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      a.   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
      b.   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
      c.   Special provisions for the location, design, and use of structures,
sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas, and vehicle
parking areas.
   H.   Nonconformities
      1.   Construction on Substandard Lots of Record.
      a.   Lots of record that do not meet the requirements of Section 6.04. J
may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size requirements
provided:
      i.   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
      ii.   The lot has been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all
times since it became substandard;
      iii.   The lot was created compliant with official controls in effect at
the time; and
      iv.   Sewage treatment and setback requirements of this Ordinance are
met.
      b.   A variance from setback requirements, if necessary, must be obtained
before any use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a
lot. In evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
      c.   If an group of two (2) or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of Section 6.04.J
the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the purposes of
sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more contiguous
lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the requirements
of Section 6.04J as much as possible.
      2.   Deck Additions to Nonconforming Structures.
   A deck addition not meeting the required setback from the ordinary high
water level may be allowed on a structure which does meet the setback, without
a variance, if all of the following criteria and standards are met:
   I.   Shoreland Classification System.
   The Public Waters and Protected Wetlands of Lent Township have been
classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minnesota Regulations,
Part 6120.3300, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Chisago County,
Minnesota. The shoreland area for the waterbodies listed herein shall be as
defined in Section 3 of this Ordinance. The shorelands of all Public Waters and
Protected Wetlands within Lent Township shall be classified as NATURAL
ENVIRONMENT for the purposes of this Ordinance and shall include the following
listed waters:
1 Public Waters Basins and                           
Protected Wetlands:
Basin / Wetland Name       PWI Identification Number Located in Section(s)
Tri Marsh                  13-134W                   20
Olson Marsh                13-133W                   1
Unnamed wetland            13-129W                   19
Unnamed wetland            13-128W                   19
Unnamed wetland            13-115W                   30
Unnamed wetland            13-114W                   30
Mud Lake                   13-112W                   6 & 7
Unnamed basin              13-61P                    29
Peterson Slough            13-60W                    12
Sunrise Pools              13-59P                    12, 13, 14, 22, 23, 26, 28
                                                     & 33
Swamp Lake                 13-58P                    35 & 36
School Lake                13-44P                    36
Mattson Lake               13-43P                    36
 
      2.   Public Watercourses (Rivers, Streams, Public Drainage Ditches and
Tributaries):
   Watercourse Name   From   To
   Sunrise River   outlet of Sunrise Pool (13-59P)   east border of Lent
   Township
   in Section 34   in Section 13
   West Branch   west border of Lent Township   inlet of Sunrise Pool (13-59P)
   Sunrise River   in Section 31   in Section 33
   Unnamed Tributary
   to   west border of Section 3   east border of Lent
   Township
   Sunrise River      in Section 1
   Unnamed Tributary to   outlet of Olson Marsh (13- 133W)   east border of
Lent Township
   Sunrise River   in Section 1   in Section 1
   And all other natural and altered watercourses within Lent Township shown on
the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources Protected Waters Inventory Map
and List for Chisago County, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference,
not specifically listed above.
   J.   Lot Area and Width Standards
   The minimum lot area (in square feet) and minimum lot width (in feet)
standards for single & duplex riparian residential lots created after the date
of enactment of this Ordinance for the lake and river/stream classifications
follow. Standards for nonriparian lots are those specified for the underlying
zoning district if they are more restrictive. If not, these standards shall be
used.
      1.   Shorelands utilizing individual, on-site sewage treatment systems:
      2.   Shorelands utilizing publicly owned or municipal sewage treatment
systems:
 
Dwelling Type Minimum Lot Area (square feet) Minimum Lot Width (feet)
Single Family 40,000                         150
Duplex        80,000                         225
 
      1.   Additional Standards.
      a.   Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities exceeding the
minimum lot sizes shall only be allowed if designed and approved as
Conservation Subdivisions or Residential Planned Unit Developments pursuant to
Section 7.19. Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters
can be used to meet lot area standards, and lot width standards must be met at
both the ordinary high water level and at the building line. The sewered lot
area dimensions can only be used if publicly owned sewer system service is
available to the property.
      b.   Subdivisions for duplexes shall also meet the following standards:
      (1)   Each building must be set back at least two hundred (200 feet from
the ordinary high water level;
      (2)   Each building must have common sewage treatment and water systems
serving both dwelling units in the building;
      (3)   Watercraft docking facilities for each lot must be centralized in
one location and serve both dwelling units in the building; and
      (4)   No more than twenty-five (25) percent of a lake's shoreline can be
in duplex developments.
      c.      Lots intended to furnish or provide riparian access for owners of
nonriparian lots within subdivisions shall be prohibited.
   K.   Placement, Design, and Height of Structures.
      1.   Placement of Structures and Sewage Treatment Systems on Lots.
      When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and facilities
must be located to meet all setbacks.
      a.   Structure and Sewage Treatment System Setbacks (from ordinary high
water level)
      Structure Setback   Structure Setback
      with on-site Sewage System   with Municipal Sewer   
      On-site Sewage Treatment System Setback 150 feet      150 feet      150
feet
      b.   Additional Structure Setbacks.
   The following additional structure setbacks shall apply within shorelands:
   Setback
   Setback from...   Distance
   Top of Bluff   30 feet
   Unplatted Cemetery   50 feet
   Right-of-way (Federal, State or County Highway)   85 feet
   Centerline of Township Road   73 feet Right-of-way (Public or Private Road
in platted subdivisions)   40 feet
      c.   Bluff Impact Zones.
      Structures and accessory facilities, except stairways and landings, shall
not be placed within bluff impact zones.
      d.   Uses without water-oriented needs.
      Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or parcels
without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with public
waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high water
level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      2.   Design Criteria for structures. a   High Water Elevations.
      Structures shall be placed in accordance with any Township floodplain
regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not exist, the
elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed or flood-
proofed must be determined as follows:
      (1)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three (3
) feet above the highest known water level, or three (3) feet above the
ordinary high water level, whichever is higher;
      (2)   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least three
(3) feet above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are not
available, by placing the lowest floor at least three (3) feet above the
ordinary high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine
effects of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to
establish a flood protection elevation. Technical evaluations shall be done by
a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with Minnesota Rules Parts
6120.5000 to 6120.6200 governing the management of flood plain areas. If more
than one approach is used, the highest flood protection elevation determined
must be used for placing structures and other facilities.
      b.   Stairways, Lifts, and Landings.
      Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternative to major topographic
alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore
areas. Stairways and lifts must meet the following standards:
      (1)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four (4) feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties, conservation subdivisions and planned unit
developments;
      (2)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area. Landings larger than thirty-two
(32) square feet may be used for commercial properties, public open-space
recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
      (3)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or landings;
      (4)   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above the
ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
      (5)   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located, whenever practical,
in the most visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface
of the public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical;
and
      (6)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas,
provided that the dimensional and performance standards of subitems (1) to (5)
are complied with in addition to the requirements of Minnesota Regulations,
Chapter 1340.
      c.   Significant Historic Sites.
   No structure may be placed on a significant historic site in a manner that
affects the values of the site unless adequate information about the site has
been removed and documented in a public repository.
      d.   Steep Slopes.
   The Zoning Administrator must evaluate possible soil erosion impacts and
development visibility from public waters before issuing a permit for
construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways, structures, or
other improvements on steep slopes. When determined necessary, conditions must
be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing
vegetation screening of structures, vehicles, and other facilities as viewed
from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
      3.   Building Height.
   All buildings, except churches and nonresidential agricultural buildings,
shall not exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height.
   L.   Shoreland Alterations
      1.   Vegetation Alterations
      a.   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures
and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and parking areas
regulated by Section 6.04 of this Ordinance are exempt from the vegetation
alteration standards that follow.
      b.   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses as regulated in this Section, is allowed subject to the
following standards:
      (1)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing for
forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable as a
conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is developed and
approved by the Chisago Soil and Water Conservation District.
      (2)   Within shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
         (a)   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
         (b)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved;
         (c)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of trees,
limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
      2.   Use of fertilizers and pesticides in all districts must minimize
runoff into shore impact zones and public waters by use of earth, vegetation,
or both.
      3.   Topographic Alterations/Grading and Filling
      a.   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the construction
of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways under validly issued
construction permits for these facilities do not require the issuance of a
separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and filling standards
in this Section must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways.
      b.   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by Section 6.04 of this
Ordinance.
      c.   Notwithstanding Items 1. and 2. above, a grading and filling permit
will be required for:
      (1)   The movement of more than ten (10) cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
      (2)   The movement of more than fifty (50) cubic yards of material
outside of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
      d.   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
      (1)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 wetland must
be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would affect
the following functional qualities of the wetland, including: *
         (a)   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
         (b)   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
         (c)   Fish and wildlife habitat;
         (d)   Recreational use;
         (e)   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
         (f)   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or others.
   Note: This evaluation must also include a determination of whether the
wetland alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or approvals by
other local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, or the United States Army Corps of
Engineers.
      e.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that ensures
only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest time
possible;
      f.   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
      g.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before they
reach any surface water feature must be used;
      (5)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the Chisago Soil
and Water Conservation District and the United States Soil Conservation
Service;
      (6)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope;
      (7)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of thirty (30) percent or greater;
      (8)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones;
      (9)   Any alterations below ordinary high water level of public waters
must first be authorized by the commissioner under Minnesota Statutes, Section
103G.245;
      (10)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties; and
      (11)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three (3) feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten (10) feet of the ordinary high
water level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level
does not exceed three (3) feet.
      h.   Permits for excavations where the intended purpose is connection to
a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and harbors, may be issued
only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed connection to public
waters.
   M.   Placement and Design of Roads, Driveways, and Parking Areas
      1.   Public and private roads, driveways and parking areas must be
designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve
maximum screening from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided
by a qualified individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guide of the Chisago Soil and Water Conservation
District, or other applicable technical materials.
      2.   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setbacks and
must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones when other reasonable
and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they may
be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
      3.   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and
access related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided
the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this subpart are
met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of Subsection
6.03 of this Ordinance must be met.
   N.   Stormwater Management
      1.   General Standards:
      a.   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
      b.   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
      c.   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials
and facilities.
      2.   Specific Standards:
      a.   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed twenty-five (25)
percent of the lot area.
      b.   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the Chisago
Soil and Water Conservation District.
      c.   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
   O.   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources
      1.   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments, or conditional uses under this Ordinance shall be sent to the
Commissioner or the Commissioner's designated representative and postmarked at
least ten days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to consider proposed
subdivisions/plats shall include copies of the subdivision/plat.
      2.   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under this Ordinance shall be
sent to the commissioner or the commissioner's designated representative and
postmarked within ten days of final action. When a variance is approved after
the Department of Natural Resources has formally recommended denial in the
hearing record, the notification shall also include the Board of Adjustment's
record of the hearing and the findings and conclusions which supported approval
of the variance.
6.05   Carlos Avery Overlay District
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Carlos Avery Overlay District is to protect and preserve
the natural and scenic and recreational values of lands adjoining the Carlos
Avery Wildlife Management Area and to provide for development activities which
do not detract from these values.
   B.   District Application.
   The Carlos Avery Overlay District is established over that area between the
Carlos Avery Wildlife Management Area property boundary and all land within
five hundred (500) feet from the property boundary.
   C.   Permitted Uses.
   Permitted, interim and conditional uses shall be identical to those allowed
in the underlying zoning District.
   D.   Lot Size.
   Lot area requirements shall meet the minimums established in the underlying
zoning District.
   E.   Lot Width.
   The minimum lot width at the building setback and along any frontage of the
Wildlife Management Area shall be three hundred (300) feet.
   F.   Setbacks from Carlos Avery Wildlife Management Area Boundary.
      1.   Minimum structure setbacks from the Carlos Avery boundary shall be
fifty (50) feet.
      2.   The minimum private on-site sewage treatment system setback from the
Carlos Avery boundary shall be fifty (50) feet.
   G.   Additional Standards.
   Unless otherwise noted, all other remaining standards of the underlying
zoning District apply.
6.06   Sunrise River Overlay District
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Sunrise River Overlay District is to protect and preserve
the existing natural, scenic and recreational values of the Sunrise River and
to provide for development activities which do not detract from these values.
   B.   District Application.
   The Sunrise River Overlay District is established over an area five hundred
(500) feet from either side of the ordinary high water level of the Sunrise
River, beginning in Section 24, T 34N, R 21W at the boundary of Carlos Avery
Wildlife Management Area and continuing to the eastern border of Lent Township
in Section 13, T34N, R 21W.
   C.   Permitted Uses.
   Permitted, interim and conditional uses shall be identical to those allowed
in the underlying zoning District.
   D.   Lot Size.
   Lot area requirements shall meet the minimums of those established in the
underlying zoning District.
   E.   Lot Width.
   The minimum lot width at the building setback and along any frontage of the
river shall be three hundred (300) feet.
   F.   Setbacks From the ordinary high water level.
      1.   The minimum structure setback from the ordinary high water level
shall be two hundred (200) feet.
      2.   The minimum setback of a private on-site sewage treatment system
from the ordinary high water level shall be two hundred (200) feet.
   G.   Additional Standards.
   Unless otherwise noted, all other remaining standards of the underlying
zoning District shall apply.
6.07   Rural Business Overlay District
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of the Rural Business Overlay District is to provide additional
opportunities for businesses or new commercial development that generally blend
in with the surrounding rural residential land uses. Such Home Occupations may
require a Special Exception to standards outlined in Section 4.04.D.
   B.   District Application.
   The Rural Business Overlay District is established on properties with
roadway frontage on either side of Forest Boulevard, beginning 340th Street and
continuing to the northern border of Lent Township at 360th Street.
   C.   Permitted Uses.
   Permitted, interim and conditional uses shall be identical to those allowed
in the underlying zoning District.
   D.   Lot Size.
   Lot area requirements shall meet the minimums of those established in the
underlying zoning District.
   E.   Lot Width.
   Lot width requirements shall meet the minimums of those established in the
underlying zoning District.
   F.   Additional Standards.
   Special Exceptions for Home Occupations require a use permit as specified in
Sections 5.06 C and D. Special Exceptions for Home Occupations must comply with
performance standards as outlined in this section:
      1.   Conduct of the home occupation does not require alterations to the
exterior of the residence which substantially alters the appearance of the
dwelling as a residence.
      2.   Signage shall consist of no more than one (1) single or double-faced
sign with a maximum area of eight (8) square feet per side in the Rural
Residential District.
      3.   Should the occupation be related to teaching, classes shall not
exceed ten (10) students at any one time.
      4.   Should the home occupation be for repair or manufacturing, the items
being repaired or manufactured shall be of a size or nature where the activity
can take place within the home, or an accessory structure to the principal use
as allowed by this Ordinance.
      5.   Home occupations may be conducted in an accessory structure provided
that the use can comply with all building and fire codes.
      6.   The home occupation shall not generate sewage of a nature or type
that cannot be treated by a standard on-site sewage system or hazardous wastes
without an approved plan for off-site disposal.
      7.   The home occupation shall have a limit of three (3) employees who do
not reside at the dwelling.
      8.   The number of daily customers for each home occupation shall be
limited to ensure the operation will not create a nuisance based on factors
such as the proposed use and the lot size upon which the home occupation is
located.
      9.   The number of daily vehicle trips generated by each operation shall
be limited to ensure the operation will not create a nuisance based on factors
such as the number of customers, and the traffic flow in the area.
      10.   If the home occupation will require a delivery service, such as
UPS, no more than ten (10) delivery/pickup trips per week shall be permitted.
      11.   All off-street parking generated by the home occupation shall be
provided on a concrete, bituminous, or gravel surface in or adjacent to the
driveway.
      12.   Between the hours of 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM, no customers or employees
who do not reside on the site may be at the site.
      13.   No business operations occurring outside of the main dwelling are
permitted outside of the hours of 7:00 PM and 7:00 AM.
      14.   The limited operation of an approved wholesale or retail business
is allowed.
SECTION 7. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
7.01   Maintenance Required
   All structures, landscaping and fencing shall be reasonably maintained so as
to avoid health or safety hazards and prevent a degradation in the value of
adjacent property.
7.02   On-site Sewage Treatment Standards
   The installation, maintenance and repair of all on-site sewage treatment
systems shall be in compliance with Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules,
Chapter 7080, and the Lent Township Sewage and Wastewater Treatment Ordinance,
Chapter Four, Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
7.03   Nonconforming Sewage Treatment Systems
   Any permit authorizing an addition to an existing structure shall stipulate
that an identified nonconforming sewage treatment system, as defined pursuant
to the Lent Township Sewage and Wastewater Treatment Ordinance, Chapter Four,
Lent Township Land Use Regulations shall be reconstructed or replaced in
accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
7.04   Odors and Emissions
   Odors and emissions from any use shall not exceed any applicable regulations
set forth by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules.
7.05   Dust and Particulates
   Dust and particulate matter from any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules.
7.06   Noise and Vibrations
   A.   Noise and vibrations generated from any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules. Any use established
shall be so operated that no undue or objectionable noise resulting from said
use is transmitted beyond the boundaries of that plat line of the site on which
such use is located. This standard shall not apply to incidental traffic,
parking, loading, construction, or temporary maintenance operations.
   B.   Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibration shall be prohibited
if such vibrations are perceptible to persons beyond the lot line of the site
on which the use is located. The standard shall not apply to vibrations created
during the process of construction.
7.07   Glare
   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign, or other
structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or reflected glare from
floodlights and high-temperature processes such as combustion or welding or
other sources, shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The source of
light shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to unreasonably
light adjacent property or public right-of-way.
7.08   Waste
   A.   All waste generated from any use shall be managed in compliance with
the Chisago County Solid Waste Management Ordinance. Waste generated on any
premises shall be kept in containers designed for waste collection or stored in
a structure or within an enclosed or screened area. The accumulation, storage,
processing or disposal of waste, compost or recyclable materials on any
premises, which is not generated on that premises, is prohibited, except as
specifically provided in this Ordinance.
   B.   The ownership, possession or control of any unused appliances or other
containers with doors which fasten automatically when closed and of sufficient
size to retain any person, that are exposed and accessible to the public
without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches or providing locks to
prevent access by the public, is prohibited.
7.09   Sewage Sludge Land Application
   The land application of sewage sludge shall be prohibited within Lent
Township.
7.10   Developments in Fire Prone Areas
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to establish specific regulations for
developments located in fire prone areas. These regulations are established to
minimize the chances of loss of life and property due to wild fires.
   B.   Fire Prone Areas.
   Fire prone areas are areas which contain natural conifer stands or conifer
plantations which, due to flammability of the tree needles, associated ground
vegetation, accumulation of duff on the ground, and presence of droughty soils,
pose a great potential for rapidly spreading wildfires.
   C.   Regulations for Developments in Fire Prone Areas.
   The following regulations apply to developments proposed to be located in
fire prone areas as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   The solid portion of a conifer stand shall be removed for a distance
of seventy-five (75) to one hundred (100) feet around the perimeter of the
building. Single, well-spaced trees may be left in this buffer area.
      2.   An alternate driveway shall be installed. Two driveways will allow
an escape route to inhabitants of the building should one become blocked by
fire. Driveways should be at least twenty-five (25) feet wide and kept as
straight as possible to allow for free movement of traffic and provide a
firebreak for control measures.
7.11   Bulk Storage
   The storage of all bulk liquids, fuels, chemicals and gases shall be in
compliance with and regulated by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules,
Minnesota State Fire Code and the Minnesota State Building code.
7.12   Outside Storage
   A.   In all Districts, all materials and equipment shall be stored within a
building or be fully screened so as to not be visible from adjoining
properties. Exceptions to these requirements are as follows:
   Agricultural equipment and materials intended to be used on the premises.
      1.   Construction materials and equipment currently being used on the
premises.
      2.   Off street parking of passenger vehicles.
      3.   Recreational equipment for use of residents of principal structure.
      4.   Boats and recreational vehicles less than twenty (20) feet in length
if stored in rear yard not less than ten (10) feet from any lot line and are
used by the residents of the principal structure.
      5.   Clothes lines and poles.
      6.   Merchandise being displayed for sale.
   B.   Outside storage areas must be designed as follows:
      1.   The storage does not occupy required setbacks.
      2.   The storage does not encroach upon any required parking areas,
loading areas, or sewage disposal drainfield areas.
      3.   The storage area shall be surfaced or vegetated to control
stormwater runoff and dust.
7.13   Surfacewater Management
   A.   For all proposed subdivisions, and cluster and planned unit
developments, stormwater shall be managed in accordance with the Nationwide
Urban Runoff Program standards for the design of new stormwater ponds and the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's urban best management practices, titled
"Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas" in order to reduce non-point source
pollutant loading in stormwater runoff.
   B.   Existing natural drainageways, natural water storage retention areas,
and vegetated soil surfaces shall be used to the greatest extent possible to
store, filter and retain stormwater runoff before discharge occurs into any
public waters. When natural features and vegetation are not available to handle
stormwater runoff, constructed facilities such as diversions, settling basins,
skimming devices, dikes and manmade waterways and ponds may be used. Preference
shall be given to designs using surface drainage, vegetation and infiltration
rather than buried pipes and manmade materials and facilities. Development
shall be planned and conducted in a manner that will minimize disturbed areas,
runoff velocities, and erosion potential as well as reduce and delay runoff
volumes. Within Shoreland areas, the requirements of the Lent Township
Shoreland Ordinance shall prevail.
7.14   Wetland Protection and Management
   Wetlands shall be protected and managed in accordance with the Wetland
Conservation Act of 1991, as amended.
7.15   Erosion and Sedimentation Control
   A.   No land occupant or developer in the Township shall cause or conduct
any land disturbing activity which causes excessive erosion or sedimentation,
or which results in damage to water or soil resources. All development in the
Township shall conform to the natural limitation presented by the topography
and soil types in order to minimize soil erosion and sedimentation. Site
erosion and sediment control measures shall be consistent with MPCA's "best
management practices".
   B.   Land disturbing activities shall occur in increments of workable size
such that adequate erosion and sediment controls can be provided throughout all
phases of the development. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed
or disturbed at any one period of time. Areas where natural vegetative barriers
are not sufficient to contain erosion and sedimentation from water bodies,
wetlands, water courses or neighboring properties shall be staked with silt
fences and straw bales.
7.16   Woodland Preservation
   A.   In the removal of vegetation for development purposes, structures shall
be located in such a manner that the maximum number of trees shall be
preserved.
   B.   Forestation, reforestation or landscaping shall utilize a variety of
tree species and shall not utilize any species presently under disease
epidemic. Species planted shall be hardy under local conditions and compatible
with the local landscape.
   C.   Development including grading and contouring shall take place in such a
manner that the remaining trees shall be minimally affected.
7.17   Landscaping
   A.   Landscaping on a lot shall consist of a finished grade and a soil
retention cover such as sod, seed and mulch, plantings, or as may be required
by the Zoning Administrator to protect the soil and aesthetic values on the lot
and adjacent property.
   B.   In the Urban Growth District, all developed uses shall provide
landscaping from the urban curb and gutter or edge of road surface to the road
right-of-way lines. This landscaped yard shall be kept clear of all structures,
exterior storage and off-street parking.
   C.   Landscaping shall be provided and maintained on all required front and
side yards in all developed Districts except where pavement or crushed stone is
used for walkways or driveways.
7.18   Screening
   A.   Screening shall be required in residential areas where:
      1.   Any off-street parking area contains more than four (4) parking
spaces and is within thirty (30) feet of an adjoining residential area, or
      2.   Where the driveway to a parking area of more than six (6) parking
spaces is within fifteen (15) feet of an adjoining residential area.
   B.   Where any commercial or industrial structure, parking or storage is
adjacent to property zoned or developed for residential use, that commercial or
industrial use shall provide screening along the boundary of the residential
property. Screening shall also be provided where a commercial or industrial use
is across the street from a residential zone, but not on that side of a
business or industry considered to be the front as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
   C.   The screening required in this section may consist of a fence, trees,
shrubs, and berms not less than five (5) feet high but shall not extend within
fifteen (15) feet of any street or driveway. The screening shall be placed
along property lines or in case of screening along a street, twenty (20) feet
from the street right-of-way with landscaping between the screening and
pavement. The screening shall block direct vision. Planting of a type approved
by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission may also be required in
addition to or in lieu of fencing.
7.19   Conservation Subdivision and Planned Unit Development
   A.   Purpose and Scope.
   The purpose of this Section is to allow variation from conventional lot-
block subdivision, when it is demonstrated that a Conservation Subdivision or
Planned Unit Development provides more creativity and flexibility in
development of the land, including private ownership of subdivision
improvements and common areas, and provides greater natural resource
protection. The Township may allow Conservation Subdivisions and Planned Unit
Developments for new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously
built sites, or conversions of existing buildings and land. Each lot or
dwelling site created pursuant to this Section shall be suitable in its natural
state for the proposed use with minimal alteration of existing soils, surface
waters, topography and natural vegetation.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Required.
   A conditional use permit shall be required for any Conservation Subdivision
or Planned Unit Development and shall address all of the following issues:
      1.   Transportation Accessibility.
   The project area shall front or have access to a Federal, State, County or
Township road existing and maintained at the time of application.
      2.   Adjacent Land Use.
   The project shall not result in the location of residence at a distance less
than one-quarter (1/4) mile from a permitted feedlot or one-half (1/2) mile
from a public airport.
      3.   Local Plans, Projects.
   The proposed project shall not conflict with adopted local plans or projects
(i.e. sewage lagoons, parks, transportation facilities, etc.).
      4.   Environmental Impacts.
   The proposed project shall not have an adverse impact on the environmental
factors listed below. An Environmental Assessment Worksheet may be prepared if
a further assessment of environmental impact is needed:
      a.   The project will not create additional service demands or exceed
local service capabilities.
      b.   The project will not induce secondary development nearby such as
similar development or support services or facilities (i.e. recreational
facilities, emergency service or law enforcement facilities, etc.).
      c.   The project will not have a significant impact on wildlife habitat.
      d.   The project will not have a significant impact on the natural
vegetation of the area.
      e.   The project will not have a significant impact on the hydrology of
the area.
      f.   The project will not have a significant impact on the area's water
resources.
      5.   Compliance with Applicable Federal, State and County Development
Regulations.
   The proposed project must be in compliance with all applicable Federal,
State or County development regulations.
   C.   Information requirements.
   Developers are encouraged to hold discussions with the Planning Commission
and general public prior to addressing these information requirements, so that
developers have an opportunity to understand the review process and community
interests. Submission of adequate information by project proponents shall
include the following:
   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for placement and
construction of structures, on-site sewage treatment and water supply systems
for every lot or dwelling site. Such information shall include soil borings and
percolation tests as required by the Zoning Administrator.
      1.   Appropriate information regarding any existing or proposed community
or municipal sewage treatment and water supply systems; extent of anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations; and proposed methods for controlling
stormwater runoff and erosion, both during and after construction activities.
      2.   A site plan for the project showing all property boundaries; surface
water features, including the ordinary high water level of all public waters
and delineation of all wetlands; existing and proposed structures, sewage
treatment systems and water supply systems; topographic contours at two-foot
intervals; trees; and any unusual soils or geological features.
      3.   Documents that explain how the project is designed and will
function. These shall include all covenants; operating rules and procedures
that require membership in a property owners association; all easements
associated with the development; a concept statement fully describing the
project; floor plans for all structures; and various other drawings or plans as
required by the Planning Commission.
      4.   A context map showing the existing natural and man-made features on
both the proposed development site and on adjacent properties.
      5.   Where conservation easements are to be utilized, a statement of
preliminary acceptance from a qualified holder as defined in Minnesota
Statutes, section 84C.01-02.
   D.   Development Density and Lot Requirements.
      1.   The density of development shall not exceed the number of lots per
acre of gross land area specified in Sections 5.06 through 5.10 of this
ordinance.
      2.   All land used to determine maximum density of development shall be
contiguous, and under single control and ownership.
      3.   Any lot without a community or municipal sewage treatment and water
supply system shall have a minimum buildable area of one (1) acre.
      4.   Conservation Subdivisions utilizing individual on-site sewage
treatment and water supply systems shall only be allowed within the Rural
Residential and Rural Transit Center Districts. The maximum development density
for the applicable Zoning District shall not exceed one hundred and twenty-five
(125) percent of the development density allowed for single-family residences,
subject to the following conditions:
      a.   The minimum buildable area for every proposed lot is one (1) acre.
      b.   The minimum lot width is two hundred (200) feet.
      c.   All covenants, deed restrictions, easements, operating plans and
regulations relating to the establishment, maintenance and use of common open
space, and the continued operation and maintenance of the Conservation
Subdivision shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.19 I., J.,
K. and L.
      d.   No private road easements shall be approved to provide access to the
conservation subdivision.
      5.   Conservation Subdivisions and Planned Unit Developments utilizing
community or municipal sewage treatment and water supply systems may be allowed
within the Rural Residential, Urban Growth and
   Rural Transit Center Districts. The maximum development density for the
applicable Zoning District shall not exceed one hundred and twenty-five (125)
percent of the development density allowed for single-family residences,
subject to the following conditions:
      a.   The minimum buildable area for every proposed lot within the Rural
Residential and Rural Transit Center Districts is twenty-thousand (20,000)
square feet.
      b.   The minimum buildable area for every proposed lot within the Urban
Growth District is ten- thousand (10,000) square feet.
      c.   The minimum lot width is one hundred and fifty (150) feet.
      d.   All covenants, deed restrictions, easements, operating plans and
regulations relating to the establishment, maintenance and use of common open
space, and the continued operation and maintenance of the Conservation
Subdivision or Planned Unit Development shall be in accordance with the
provisions of Section 7.19 I., J., K. and L.
      e.   No private road easements shall be approved to provide access to the
conservation subdivision or planned unit development.
   E.   Height, Yard, Area, and Lot Width and Depth Regulations.
   The height, width, depth, yard, and lot area requirements are contained in
Section 5.10 Dimensional Standards.
   F.   Consideration of adjacent land uses.
   All designs shall take into account surrounding land uses and shall be so
designed that the layout of lots and streets and the placement of structures
shall result in the minimum disruption or conflict in the adjacent land uses
and agricultural operations.
   G.   General Regulations.
      1.   All other regulations of the appropriate Zoning District not
specified in this Section or specified as a condition to the Conditional Use
Permit shall apply to a Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development.
      2.   It is the intent of this Section that the subdivision of the land
involved be carried out simultaneously with the review of a Conservation
Subdivision or Planned Unit Development.
      3.   The application for a Conditional Use Permit shall state precisely
the reasons for requesting the consideration of the property for a Conservation
Subdivision or Planned Unit Development.
      4.   The land which is to be set aside as open or common area shall be
clearly indicated on the plan. Provisions for recreational area and for
continual maintenance of that area not dedicated and accepted by the Town Board
shall be required. Provisions for public streets must be approved by the
Township.
      5.   No conveyance of property within the Conservation Subdivision or
Planned Unit Development shall take place until the property is platted in
conformance with the provisions of this Section and applicable to the Lent
Township Subdivision Ordinance. All by-laws, Property Owners' Association
Articles of Incorporation and Protective Covenants must be approved by the
Township Attorney and filed with the recorded plat.
      6.   The uses in the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development
shall be those uses allowed for in the Zoning District.
      7.   There is to be provided within the tract, or immediately adjacent
thereto, parking spaces in private garages or off-street parking areas in
accordance with the requirement of Section 4.12 of this Ordinance.
      8.   Private driveways, accessways and common parking areas must be
developed to a standard equal to that required for public use by Section 4.12.
Such driveways and accessways must be protected by recorded deed covenants
assuring their availability to and maintenance by all residents of the project.
   H.   Site Design.
      1.   The number of building sites or lots within a Conservation
Subdivision or Planned Unit Development shall be determined by dividing the net
buildable acreage of the project area by the required lot area per unit which
is required in the District which the project is located. The net buildable
acreage shall be defined as the project area less the land area dedicated for
public streets and lands deemed as "unbuildable" by this Ordinance. The project
area includes all the land within the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit
Development which is allocated for residential use and for common open spaces
as required by this Section. Land to be dedicated for public streets is to be
excluded from the project area.
      2.   The common open space, any other common properties, individual
properties, and all other elements of the Conservation Subdivision or Planned
Unit Development shall be so planned that they will achieve a unified scheme of
integrated planning and a harmonious selection and efficient distribution of
uses.
      3.   The proposed Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development
shall be of such size, composition, and arrangement that its construction,
marketing and operation is feasible as a complete unit, without dependence on
any subsequent unit or development.
   I.   Standards for Common or Public Open Space.
   No open area may be accepted as common open space under the provisions of
this Section unless it meets the following standards:
      1.   The location, shape, size, and character of the common open space
must be suitable for the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development.
      2.   Common open space must be used for amenity or recreational purposes.
The uses authorized for the common open space must be appropriate to the scale
and character of the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development,
considering its size, density, expected population, topography, and the number
and type of structures to be provided.
      3.   Common open space must be suitably improved for its intended use,
but common open space containing natural features worthy of preservation shall
be left unimproved. The buildings, structures and improvements which are
permitted in the common open space must be appropriate to the uses which are
authorized for the common open space and must conserve and enhance the
amenities of the common open space, having regard to its topography and
unimproved condition.
      4.   The development plan must coordinate the improvement of the common
open space and the construction of buildings, structures, and improvements in
the common open space, with the construction of the permitted structures of the
Zoning District in which the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit
Development is located.
      5.   If the final development plan provides for buildings or structure
improvements in the common open space, the developer must provide a bond or
other adequate assurance that the buildings, structures, and improvements will
be completed. The Town Board shall release the bond or other assurance when the
buildings, structures, or improvements have been completed according to the
development plan.
      6.   The construction and provision of all of the common open spaces and
public and recreational facilities, which are shown on the final development
plan, must proceed at the same rate as the construction of the principal
structures of the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development.
   J.   Conveyance and Maintenance of Common Open Space.
      1.   All land shown on the final development plan as common open space
must be conveyed under one of the following options:
      a.   It may be conveyed to a public agency (State, County or Township) to
maintain the common open space
      b.   and any buildings, structures, or improvements which have been
placed on it.
      c.   It may be conveyed to trustees provided in an indenture establishing
an association or similar organization for the maintenance of the planned
development. The common open space must be conveyed to the trustees, subject to
covenants to be approved by the Town Board and the Township Attorney, which
restrict the common open space to the uses specified on the final development
plan, and which provide for the maintenance of the common open space in a
manner which assures its continuing use for its intended purpose. Interest in
the common open space shall be undivided and such interest shall not be
transferable.
      2.   No common open space shall be put to any use not specified in the
final development plan unless the final development plan has been amended to
permit that use. However, no change of use may be considered as a waiver of any
of the covenants limiting the use of common open space areas, and all rights to
enforce these covenants against any permitted use are expressly reserved.
      3.   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public agency, either
one of the following methods of enforcement must be provided:
      a.   The legal right to develop the common open space for the uses not
specified in the final development plan must be conveyed to a public agency.
      b.   Restrictions governing the use, improvement, and maintenance of the
common open space must be stated as conditions to the conveyance of the common
open space,
      c.   Fee title to the common open space shall vest to a public agency in
the event of a substantial default in the stated conditions.
      4.   If the common open space is not conveyed to a public agency, the
covenants governing the use, improvement and maintenance of the common open
space may authorize a public agency to enforce their provisions.
   K.   Required Covenants, Easements and Provisions in Plan.
   The development plan shall contain such proposed covenants, easements, and
other provisions relating to the bulk, location, and density of permitted
structures, accessory uses thereto, and public facilities as may be necessary
for the welfare of the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development and
not inconsistent with the best interest of the entire Township. The applicant
may be required to dedicate land for street or park purposes and, by
appropriate covenants, to restrict areas perpetually as open space for common
use. The development shall be subject to all conditions so imposed, and shall
be exempted from other provisions of this Ordinance only to the extent
specified in the authorization.
   L.   Guarantee the Provision of Common Open Space.
   The Town Board may require adequate assurance, in a form and manner which it
approves, that the common open space shown in the final development plan will
be provided. The following methods of assurance are intended as illustrative,
and they may be used singly or in combination:
   The Town Board may accept a bond, corporate surety, or other acceptable
financial guarantee, in a form which complies with the provisions of the
Subdivision Ordinance, and in an amount sufficient to purchase the common open
space shown in the final development plan or alternative acreage which is
equivalent in size and character.
   M.   Final Approval.
   When the Town Board gives final approval, a Certificate of Compliance shall
be issued for the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development even
though the size of lots, depth of yards, required distance between grouped
buildings, and building height may not conform in all respects to the
regulations of the District in which the project is to be located.
   N.   Final Action by Applicant.
   The applicant shall then review his application and plan in its final
approved form and sign a statement that the Conservation Subdivision or Planned
Unit Development in its final form shall be made binding on the applicant, any
successors in interest and assigns.
   O.   Control of Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development
Following Acceptance.
   All changes in use; re-arrangement of lots, blocks, and building tracts; any
changes in the provision of common open spaces; and all other changes in the
approved final plan must be made by the Town Board, under the procedures
authorized for the amendment of this Ordinance. No amendments may be made in
the approved final plan unless they are shown to be required by changes in
conditions that have occurred since the final plan was approved or by changes
in the development policy of the Township.
   P.   Amendments to the Final Development Plan.
   All changes in use; re-arrangement of lots, blocks, and building tracts; any
changes in the provision of common open spaces; and all other changes in the
approved final plan must be approved by the Town Board. No amendments may be
made in the approved final plan unless they are shown to be required by changes
in conditions that have occurred since the final plan was approved or by
changes in the development policy of the Township.
   Q.   Failure to begin Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development.
   If no recording of the final development plan and/or construction has begun
or no use established in the Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit
Development within one (1) year from the final approval of the final
development plan, the final development plan shall lapse and be of no further
effect. In its discretion and for good cause, the Town Board may extend for one
additional year the period for the beginning of construction.
7.20   Recreational Camping Areas
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this section is to provide for areas to be used for
recreational camping which will not detract from surrounding land uses or
natural resources, and provide for the health and safety of the public using
these areas.
   B.   License Required.
   No person, corporation, partnership, firm or other entity shall operate a
recreational camping area unless a valid license issued by the Minnesota
Department of Health for the current year has been obtained and is in the
possession of the operator and posted in a conspicuous place in the office of
the recreational camping area.
   C.   Conditional Use Permit Required.
A conditional use permit shall be required for the construction or operation of
a recreational camping area. All conditional uses shall be subject to the
requirements of this Section and Section 8.05. Each conditional use application
shall include the submission of a site plan drawn to scale. When construction
costs exceed $30,000, plans must be prepared by a registered engineer,
architect, or land surveyor. The site plan shall include the following:
      1.   The full name and address of the applicant or applicants; or names
and addresses of the partners, if the applicant is a partnership; or the names
and addresses of the officers, if the applicant is a corporation; and the name
and address of the project developer.
      2.   A legal description of the site, lot, field, or tract of land upon
which it is proposed to operate and maintain a recreational camping area.
      3.   The proposed and existing sanitary facilities on and about said
site, lot, field, or tract of land and the proposed construction or alteration
of sanitary facilities including toilets, urinals, sinks, wash basins, slop
sinks, showers, drains, and laundry facilities; source of water supply; and
sewage, garbage and waste removal. A detailed description of maintenance
procedures, grounds supervision and method of fire protection shall also be
submitted.
      4.   The proposed method of lighting the structures and site, lot, field,
or tract of land upon which said recreational camping area is to be located.
      5.   Road construction plans and specifications, including the location
and size of all streets abutting the site and all driveways from such streets
to the recreational camping area.
      6.   Location, size, and characteristics of each camping site/lot.
      7.   Designation of the calendar months of the year which applicant will
operate said recreational camping area and details as to whether all of the
area will be developed at once or whether it will be developed a portion at a
time.
      8.   Plans and drawings for new construction or alteration, including
buildings, water systems, wells, plumbing and sewage disposal systems, surface
drainage, electrical service, and gas service.
   D.   Camping Area Spacing Requirements.
   Vehicle and structure spacing requirements shall be consistent with the
Minnesota Department of Health rules Chapter 4630.
   E.   All utilities shall be underground and there shall be no overhead wires
or supporting poles except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes.
   F.   Water Supply.
   The water supply system shall be consistent with the Minnesota Department of
Health rules Chapter 4630.
   G.   Sewage Disposal.
   The water supply system shall be consistent with the Minnesota Department of
Health rules Chapter 4630.
   H.   Toilet, Bathing and Laundry Facilities.
   The schedule of facilities to be provided in central buildings shall be
consistent with the Minnesota Department of Health rules Chapter 4630.
   I.   Plumbing.
   All systems of plumbing shall be installed in accordance with the Minnesota
Board of Health regulations and the provisions of the Minnesota Plumbing Code.
   J.   Lighting.
   All lighting shall be consistent with the Minnesota Department of Health
rules Chapter 4630 and the State Electrical Code.
   K.   Garbage and Refuse - Handling and Disposal.
   Garbage and refuse handling and disposal shall be consistent with the
Minnesota Department of Health rules Chapter 4630 and the Chisago County Solid
Waste Ordinance.
   L.   Caretaker/Operator Duties.
A responsible attendant or caretaker shall be in charge of every recreational
camping area at all times and the duty of said attendant or caretaker shall be
to maintain the park, its facilities, and records; and to keep the facilities
and the equipment in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition.
7.21   Drive-In/Drive-Through Businesses
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to allow for drive-in businesses to be
established in appropriate areas and developed in a manner as to not adversely
impact surrounding land uses and to ensure the public safety.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Required.
   A Conditional Use Permit shall be required for the construction or operation
of drive- in/drive-through businesses. All conditional uses shall be subject to
the requirements of this Section and Section 8.05.
   C.   Site Plan Requirements.
      1.   The site plan shall clearly indicate suitable storage containers for
all waste material. All commercial refuse containers shall be screened.
      2.   A landscaping plan shall be included and shall set further complete
specifications for plant materials and other features.
      3.   Adequate area shall be designated for snow storage such that clear
visibility shall be maintained from the property to any public street.
      4.   The design of any structure shall be compatible with other
structures in the surrounding area or future planned uses.
      5.   Electronic devices such as loudspeakers, automobile service order
devices, drive-in theater car speakers and similar instruments shall not be
located within four hundred (400) feet of any residentially zoned or used
property, nor within two hundred (200) feet of any adjacent lot regardless of
use or zoning District.
      6.   No service shall be rendered, deliveries made, or sales conducted
within the required front yard; customers serviced in vehicles shall be parked
to the sides and/or rear of the principal structure.
      7.   No permanent or temporary signs visible from the public street shall
be erected without specific approval in the permit.
      8.   No plan shall be approved which will in any way constitute a hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian circulation. No access drive shall be within fifty
(50) feet of intersecting street curb lines.
   D.   Design Standards.
      1.   The entire area of any drive-in/drive-through business shall have a
drainage system approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      2.   The entire area other than that occupied by structures or planting
shall be surfaced with a hard surface material which will control dust and
drainage.
      3.   A fence or screen of acceptable design not over six (6) feet in
height or less than four (4) feet shall be constructed along the property line
abutting a residential District and such fence or screen shall be adequately
maintained. The fence shall not be required in front of the setback line4. A
box curb of at least six (6) inches above grade shall separate public walks
from the parking lot and shall encircle the outside of the parking except at
approved entrance or exit drives.
   E.   General.
      1.   Any drive-in/drive-through business serving food or beverages may
also provide, in addition to vehicular service areas, in-door food and beverage
seating area.
      2.   The hours of operation may be set forth as a condition of any
Conditional Use Permit for drive- in/drive-through business. 3. Each drive-in/
drive-through business serving food may have outside seating.
      3.   Each food or beverage drive-in/drive-through business shall place
refuse receptacles at all exits as well as one (1) refuse receptacle per ten
(10) vehicle parking spaces within the parking area.
   F.   Location.
      1.   No drive-in/drive-through business shall be located within four
hundred (400) feet of a public or parochial school, church, public recreation
area, or any residential District.
      2.   No drive-in/drive-through business shall be located such that it may
increase traffic volumes on nearby residential streets.
      3.   No drive-in/drive-through business shall be located on any street
other than one designated as a thoroughfare or business road.
   G.   In the case of a drive-in/drive through theater, a solid fence not less
than eight (8) feet in height and extending at least to within two (2) feet of
the ground shall be constructed around the property.
   H.   The lighting shall be designed so as to have no direct source of light
visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent land in residential use.
7.22   Automobile Dealerships
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to allow for automobile dealerships and open
automobile sales lots to be established in appropriate areas and developed in a
manner as to not adversely impact surrounding land uses and the public safety.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Required.
   A Conditional Use Permit shall be required for the establishment or
operation of an automobile dealership or sales lot. All conditional uses shall
be subject to the requirements of this Section and Section 8.05.
   C.   Surface Drainage Plans and Improvements.
   A drainage plan shall illustrate all paved area surface drainage flows
including final deposition of run-off water. Catch basins and/or settling ponds
shall be required to dispose of interior parking or display area drainage.
   D.   Dimensional Standards.
   Dimensional standards shall be consistent with the requirements in Section
5.10.
   E.   Access Driveways.
      1.   The distance of the driveway from the street intersection shall not
be less than fifty (50) feet. Greater distances may be required to avoid
reasonably anticipated traffic hazards.
      2.   Minimum distance between driveways shall be one hundred (100) feet
at the curb cut.
      3.   Minimum driveway angle to street shall be sixty (60) degrees, unless
otherwise approved by the Township engineer.
      4.   Minimum distance between driveway and adjacent property shall be
five (5) feet at the curb cut.
      5.   No driveway shall exceed twenty-five (25) feet in width and no curb
cut shall exceed thirty-two (32) feet in width.
   F.   Screening.
   A screen shall be erected and maintained along all property lines separating
institutional or residential dwellings, business and professional offices or
other uses. The screening required in this section shall be not less than five
(5) feet in height.
   G.   Landscaping.
   A landscaped yard shall be constructed and maintained on all areas of the
site not devoted to the building or parking areas and in the required front
yard area.
   H.   Curbing.
   Interior concrete or asphalt curbs shall be constructed within the property
to separate driving and parking surfaces from landscaped areas. Interior curbs
required by this section shall be nominal six (6) inches in height.
   I.   Surfacing.
   The entire site on which motor vehicle sales is located, other than that
devoted to buildings and structures, required yard areas or landscaped areas,
shall be hard surfaced and maintained to control dust, erosion and drainage
before operation of the business begins.
   J.   Parking.
      1.   Customer Parking.
   A minimum of sixteen (16) customer parking spaces shall be provided for
every acre of total site area in a business District, and in addition, three
(3) spaces for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of gross floor area.
      2.   Employee Parking.
   A minimum of two (2) employee parking spaces shall be provided for every
three (3) employees.
   K.   Contiguous Site.
   Motor vehicle sales shall be on one (1) lot or contiguous lots not separated
by a public street, alley or other use.
7.23   Automotive Service Stations
   A.   Purpose.
   The purpose of this Section is to allow for automobile service stations in
appropriate areas and in a manner as to not adversely impact adjacent
properties and ensure the public safety.
   B.   Conditional Use Permit Required.
   A Conditional Use Permit is required for the construction or operation of
automobile service stations. All conditional uses shall be subject to the
requirements of this Section and Section 8.05.
   C.   Drainage Plans.
   A drainage system, subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator, shall be
installed. The entire site, other than that taken up by a structure or
planting, shall be surfaced with concrete or other material approved by the
Planning Commission. Pump islands shall not be placed in the required yards.
The area around the pump island to a distance of eight (8) feet on each side,
shall be concrete. A box curb not less than six (6) inches above grade shall
separate the public right-of-way from the motor vehicle service areas, except
at approved entrances and exits. No driveways at a property line shall be less
than fifty (50) feet from the intersection of two (2) street right-of-way
lines. Each service station shall have at least two (2) driveways with a
minimum distance of one hundred (100) feet between centerlines when located on
the same street.
   D.   Parked Vehicles.
   No vehicles shall be parked on the premises other than those utilized by
employees or awaiting service. No vehicle shall be parked or be awaiting
service longer than fifteen (15) days. Existing service stations shall comply
with this requirement within forty-five (45) days of the effective date of this
Ordinance.
   E.   Exterior Storage.
   Exterior storage besides vehicles shall be limited to service equipment and
items offered for sale on pump islands; exterior storage of items offered for
sale shall be within yard setback requirements and shall be located in
containers such as the racks, metal trays and similar structures designed to
display merchandise. Existing service stations shall comply with this
requirement within nine (9) months of the effective date of this Ordinance.
   F.   Storage Areas.
   All areas utilized for the storage of vehicles and storage or disposal of
waste, debris, discarded parts and similar items shall be fully screened. In no
case shall the total area of exterior storage exceed one-half (1/2) the total
lot area. All structures and ground shall be maintained in an orderly, clean
and safe manner. Existing service stations shall comply with this requirement
within nine (9) months of the effective date of this Ordinance.
   G.   Related Business Activities.
   Business activities not listed in the definition of service stations in this
Ordinance are not permitted on the premises of a service station unless a
conditional use permit is obtained specifically for such business. Such
activities include but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Automobile car and truck wash.
      2.   Rental of vehicles, equipment or trailers.
      3.   General retail sales.
      4.   Establishment or use of open sales lot.
7.24   Mineral Extraction
   A.   The purpose of this section is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare through the following:
      1.   Identify areas in the Township where mineral extraction is most
appropriate and minimizes conflicts with other land uses.
      2.   Establish permitting requirements, environmental review procedures
and performance standards to regulate mineral extraction.
      3.   Establish standards which prevent or minimize environmental and
aesthetic impacts on extracted properties, adjacent properties and the
community as a whole.
      4.   Establish standards and financial guarantees that restore extracted
land to a condition compatible with adjacent properties and suitable for future
uses which are compatible with the Lent Township Comprehensive Plan.
   B.   When used in this Section, the following terms shall have the meaning
associated with them:
   Accessory Uses:   Accessory uses of a mineral extraction facility include
the manufacture, storage and sale of products made from minerals.
   Dust:   Airborne mineral particulate matter.
   Excavation:   The movement of minerals on a site.
   Mineral:   Sand, gravel, rock, soil, clay and similar higher density non-
metallic natural
minerals.
   Mineral Extraction:   The removal of minerals from the ground and off the
subject property.
   Mineral Extraction Facility:   Any area used for mineral extraction and
processing minerals.
   Mineral Extraction Permit:   The permit required for mineral extraction
facilities.
   Operator:   Any person or persons, partnerships, or corporations or
assignees, including public or governmental agencies, engaging in mineral
extraction.
   Principal Use:   The principal use of a mineral extraction facility is the
extraction, crushing, screen, mixing, storage and sale of minerals from the
facility.
   Processing:   Any activity which may include the crushing, screening,
mixing, and stockpiling of sand, gravel, rocks, or similar mineral products
into consumable products such as fill, construction grade sand, gravel, roadway
mixes, and other similar granular products.
   Rehabilitation:   To renew land to self-sustaining long-term use which is
compatible with contiguous land uses, present and future, in accordance with
the standards set forth in this Ordinance.
   Soil:   A natural three-dimensional body of the earth's surface.
   Subject Property:   The land on which mineral extraction is permitted.
   Topsoil:   The upper portion of the soils present that is the most favorable
material for plant growth. A mineral extraction permit is required for all
mineral excavation facilities. A mineral extraction permit is a conditional use
and shall be processed in accordance with Section 8.05 of this Zoning Ordinance
and the additional procedures and requirements of this section. Legal
nonconforming mineral extraction facilities expanding on new parcels after
adoption of this Ordinance shall be required to obtain a Conditional Use Permit
consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance.
   C.   A mineral extraction permit shall not be required for the following:
      1.   Excavation for a structure if a building permit has been issued.
      2.   Excavation in a right-of-way or utility corridor by Federal, State,
County, or Township authorities in connection with construction or maintenance
of public improvements.
      3.   Excavations not exceeding four hundred (400) cubic yards annually.
      4.   Excavation for agricultural purposes.
      5.   Excavation for public utility purposes.
   E.   Permit Application Requirements.
      1.   An application for a mineral extraction permit shall be submitted to
the Township on a form supplied by the Township. Information shall include but
not be limited to the following:
         a.   The following maps of the entire site and to include areas within
five hundred feet (500') of the site. All maps shall be drawn at a scale of one
inch (1") to two hundred feet (200') unless otherwise stated below:
   Map A: Existing conditions to include:
   (1)   Property boundaries.
   (2)   Contour lines at ten (10) foot intervals.
   (3)   Existing vegetation.
   (4)   Existing drainage and permanent water areas.
   (5)   Existing structures.
   (6)   Existing wells and private sewer systems of record.
   (7)   Existing pipelines, power lines and other utilities.
   (8)   Easements.
   Map B: Proposed operations to include:
   (1)   Property boundaries.
   (2)   Structures to be erected.
   (3)   Location of sites to be mined showing depth of proposed excavation.
   (4)   Location of tailings deposits showing maximum height of deposits.
   (5)   Location of processing areas and machinery to be used in the mining
operation.
   (6)   Location of storage of mined materials, showing height of storage
deposits.
   (7)   Location of vehicle parking.
   (8)   Location of storage of explosives.
   (9)   Erosion and sediment control structures.
   (10)   Haul routes.
   Map C: End use plan to include:
   (1)   Property boundaries.
   (2)   Final grade of proposed site showing elevations and contour lines at
five (5) foot intervals.
   (3)   Location and species of vegetation to be replanted.
   (4)   Location and nature of any structure to be erected in relation to the
end use plan.
   (5)   Turf Rehabilitation Plan.
         b.   Name, address, phone number, contact person for the operator.
         c.   Name, address, phone number of the landowner.
         d.   Names of the adjacent landowners including all those within a
one-quarter (1/4) mile radius of the boundary line of the subject property.
         e.   Acreage and complete legal description of the subject property on
which the facility will be located, including all contiguous property owned by
the landowners.
         f.   A narrative outlining the type of material to be excavated, mode
of operation, estimated quantity of material to be extracted, plans for
blasting, and other pertinent information to explain the request in detail.
         g.   Phasing plan and estimated timeframe to operate the facility. A
description of all vehicles and equipment estimated to be used in the operation
of the facility, including a description of the estimated average daily and
peak daily number of vehicles accessing the facility.
         h.   Any other information or documentation required for issuance of a
Conditional Use Permit under Section 8.05 of the Lent Township Zoning
Ordinance.
      2.   Every application for a mineral extraction permit shall include
submission of supporting documentation which shall include, but is not limited
to the following:
         a.   A description of existing land uses on the subject property and
all properties within one-quarter (1/4) mile.
         b.   A description of land use designations in the Comprehensive Plan
and zoning classifications of the subject property and all properties within
one-quarter (1/4) mile.
         c.   A description of the soil, vegetation, mineral content and
topography of the subject property. A minimum of three (3) soil boring logs
representative of the site and a description of the subsurface materials on the
subject property must be submitted.
         d.   A general description of surface waters, existing drainage
patterns and groundwater conditions within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the
subject property.
         e.   A general description of the depth, quantity, quality and
intended uses of the mineral deposits on the subject property.
         f.   Copies of the MPCA application documents and operating permits.
         g.   A description of the site hydrology and drainage characteristics
during extraction for each phase of mineral extraction. Identify any locations
where drainage of any disturbed areas will not be controlled on the subject
property and plans to control erosion, sedimentation and water quality of the
runoff.
         h.   A description of the potential impacts to adjacent properties
resulting from mineral extraction and off-site transportation, including but
not limited to noise, dust, surface water runoff, groundwater contamination,
traffic and aesthetics.
         i.   A description of the plan to mitigate potential impacts resulting
from mineral extraction.
         j.   A description of site screening, landscaping and security
fencing.
         k.   Site rehabilitation plans for each phase of operation and upon
completion of mineral extraction on the subject property.
         l.   A description of the method in which complaints about any aspect
of the mineral extraction facility operation or off-site transportation are to
be received and the method which complaints are to be resolved.
         m.   A plan for groundwater quality protection. A minimum of three (3)
cross-sections showing the extent of overburden, extent of sand and gravel
deposits, the water table, and any evidence of the water table in the past. The
Planning Commission reserves the right to require additional borings if
necessary.
   F.   Permitting Procedure.
      1.   A request for a mineral extraction permit, as provided within this
Ordinance, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official
application form, the required application fee shall be paid, and a deposit
made to reimburse the Township for its out-of-pocket costs in processing the
application. The application shall also be accompanied by ten (10) copies of
detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use as specified under Section 7.27(E). The Zoning
Administrator shall refer the application along with all related information,
to the Planning Commission for consideration.
      2.   The Zoning Administrator shall notice a public hearing to be held by
the Planning Commission. Notice of such hearing shall be published in the
official newspaper of the Township at least ten (10) days prior to the date of
the hearing. Written notice of public hearing shall be sent to the governing
bodies of the affected township and any municipality located within two (2)
miles of the affected property. Written notice shall also be sent to all
property owners of record within five hundred (500) feet of the affected
property in incorporated areas and to property owners within one-quarter (1/4)
miles of the affected property or the nearest ten (10) properties in
unincorporated areas, whichever would provide notice to the greatest number of
owners. A copy of the notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the Zoning Administrator and
made a part of official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual
property owners, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the
proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has
been made.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to request
additional information from the applicant or to retain expert testimony with
the consent and at the expense of the applicant if said information is declared
to be necessary by the Township to review the request or to establish
performance conditions in relation to this Ordinance.
      4.   The Planning Commission and Town Board may refer the application for
review and comment to other agencies, including but not limited to the Soil and
Water Conservation District and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      5.   The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact and recommend
such actions or conditions relating to the request to the Town Board. The
Township may impose such additional restrictions or conditions as deemed
necessary to protect the public interest. These conditions may include, but are
not limited to the following:
      a.   Matters relating to the appearance.
      b.   Hours of operation.
      c.   Increasing setbacks.
      d.   Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings.
      e.   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points.
      f.   Increasing street width and improving access conditions.
      g.   Requiring diking, berming, fencing, screening, landscaping, or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property.
      h.   Limiting the area to be mined.
      i.   Requiring phased rehabilitation.
      j.   Requiring financial security to guarantee compliance with the
conditions of approval.
      k.   Water quality monitoring.
      6.   The Town Board shall approve, modify, or deny the request and state
the findings of its actions. Approval of a Conditional Use Permit shall require
passage by majority vote of the Town Board. The Zoning Administrator shall
notify the applicant of the Town Board's action.
      7.   Reapplication for the same or substantially same Conditional Use
Permit shall not be accepted within six (6) months of denial by the Town Board.
Any Conditional Use Permit approved but not used within twelve (12) months of
the date of approval shall be null and void.
      8.   Any change to the approved Conditional Use Permit shall require an
amended Conditional Use Permit. Any expansion beyond the original boundaries
shall not be considered an amended permit and shall require a new Conditional
Use Permit.
   G.   The Township shall require the applicant or owner of the property on
which the mineral extraction is occurring, to post a bond, letter of credit or
cash escrow in such form and sum as determined by the Town Board as part of the
permit. The security shall be sufficient to reimburse the following costs:
      1.   Costs of bringing the operation into compliance with the mineral
extraction permit requirements, including site monitoring and enforcement
costs.
      2.   Extraordinary costs of repairing roads due to the special burden
resulting from the hauling of materials and traffic associated with the
operation. The amount of such cost shall be determined by the Township
Engineer.
      3.   Site restoration.
      4.   Costs the Township may incur in enforcing the terms of the
Conditional Use Permit, including attorney's fees.
   H.   Annual certification of all mineral excavation permits is required. The
purpose of the annual certification is to maintain an updated listing of active
conditional uses in the Township, to decertify any permits where the activity
has ceased, and to monitor compliance with the conditions of approval. Permit
holders must complete and return certification forms provided by the Township.
Failure to maintain certification shall be cause for revocation of the permit.
   I.   The following uses are prohibited unless specifically authorized in the
mineral extraction permit:
      1.   The washing of the extracted material.
      2.   The production or manufacturing of veneer stone, sills, lintels, cut
flagstone, hearthstones, paving stone and similar architectural or structural
stone, and the storing or stockpiling of such products on the site.
      3.   The manufacture of concrete building blocks or other similar blocks,
the production or manufacture of lime products, the production of ready-mixed
concrete, asphalt and any similar production or manufacturing processes.
   J.   The following performance standards apply to all mineral extraction
facilities in the Township:
      1.   The minimum lot size for which mineral extraction permits may be
issued is twenty (20) acres. The Zoning Administrator may issue an
administrative permit for a temporary extraction activity on less than twenty
(20) acres associated with local construction projects. The permit shall be
limited to one calendar year in duration and shall be subject to all
performance standards of this Ordinance, unless certain standards are
specifically waived by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
also require additional conditions, such as specifying haul routes and
guaranteeing haul route maintenance and repair.
      2.   Mineral extraction facilities shall operate only between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
      a.   Operators are allowed a maximum of five (5) one-day extensions to
the hours of operation for evening work in a calendar year. Operators must
notify the Township in advance of the proposed extension. Other exceptions to
the hours of operation must be approved by the Township. Approval may only be
granted in conjunction with the furnishing of material for a public improvement
project that is underway during hours that the mineral extraction facility is
not otherwise allowed to operate. Approval will be limited to those functions
that cannot occur during normal hours of operation.
      b.   Other exceptions approved by the Town Board.
      3.   Fencing, signs, and barriers shall be required around ponding areas
and steep sloped excavation areas.
      4.   The location of the intersection of mining access roads with any
public roads shall be selected such that traffic on the access roads will have
a sufficient distance of the public road in view so that any turns onto the
public road can be completed with a margin of safety.
      5.   Dust Control.
      a.   Operators shall be responsible for providing dust control on all
gravel roads used by trucks hauling to or from a mineral excavation facility.
Unless waived by the Town Board in lieu of other remedies, watering roadways
will be required when conditions warrant it.
      b.   The Township may require watering in a facility when it is
determined that airborne dust from extraction areas, processing activities,
stockpiles or internal roadways creates a public nuisance. Other remedies to
control dust may include berming, landscaping, and enclosures for processing
equipment. All equipment used for mining operations shall be constructed,
maintained, and operated in such a manner as to minimize dust conditions, as
far as practicable. All access roads from mining operations to public highways,
roads, or streets, or to adjoining property shall be paved or surfaced with
gravel to minimize dust conditions.
      6.   Maximum noise levels at the facility will be consistent with the
standards established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      7.   Operators shall use all practical means to eliminate adverse impacts
on adjacent properties from vibration of equipment.
      8.   All activities on the subject property will be conducted in a manner
consistent with the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's operating permits.
      9.   The mineral extraction operation shall not allow surface water to
leave the site in a manner that causes flooding, erosion, or alteration of
natural drainage patterns. The mineral extraction operation shall not adversely
affect the quality of surface or subsurface water. Surface water originating
outside and passing through the mineral extraction facility shall, at its point
of departure from the mining site, be of equal quality to the water at the
point where it enters the mining site. The operator shall perform any water
treatment necessary to comply with this provision.
      10.   To minimize problems of dust and noise and to shield mining
operations from public view, a screening barrier may be required between the
mining site and adjacent properties. The design of the screening barrier shall
be adequate to provide screening that would minimize the visual interruption of
the surrounding landscape. When practicable, a screening barrier must be
maintained between the mineral extraction operation and any public road.
      11.   Vehicles, equipment, or materials not associated with the mineral
extraction facility or not in operable condition may not be kept or stored at
the facility, except as specifically authorized in the Conditional Use Permit.
      12.   Mineral extraction shall occur no closer than fifty (50) feet from
any property line or road easement. An exception to the property line setback
requirement may be considered on a case-by-case basis where two mineral
extraction facilities share a common lot line and the Town Board determines it
to be in the Township's interest to waive all or portions of the contiguous
setback areas between the facilities. The setback for all other equipment and
activities shall be based upon performance standards for noise, dust control,
visual screening and the like as determined in the application review process.
      13.   Phasing plans must be prepared for all mineral extraction
facilities. The plans shall include the details and schedule for rehabilitation
in the transition of one phase to another.
      14.   Existing trees and ground cover outside of mineral extraction areas
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
      15.   The operators shall be required to control noxious weeds and mow or
harvest other vegetation to maintain reasonable appearance of the site.
      16.   Any waste generated from the mining operation, including waste from
vehicle or equipment maintenance, shall be disposed of in accordance with
Federal, State, and Township requirements.
      17.   The importation of recycled concrete and asphalt may be considered
an accessory use, at the discretion of the Town Board, provided also that it is
processed and prepared for construction reuse or sale.
      18.   The operators must comply with all other Federal, State, regional,
Township, and local laws and regulations applicable to the operation of the
mineral extraction facility, including but not limited to floodplain management
regulations, shoreland management regulations, and zoning ordinance
regulations.
      19.   The Township may impose additional regulations and requirements to
the mineral extraction permit to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
   K.   Land rehabilitation plans for mineral extraction permits must include
the grading plans, topsoil replacement, seeding, mulching, erosion control, and
sedimentation control specifications for each phase and the final site
restoration. The following minimum standards and conditions apply:
      1.   Final grades may not exceed a 3:1 ratio (33% slope), except for
rehabilitated areas in existence at the time of adoption of this Ordinance. In
completing final grading in each phase, the top of the slope may begin twenty
(20) feet from property lines.
      2.   A minimum of three (3) inches of topsoil shall be placed on all
graded surfaces.
      3.   Seeding and mulching shall be consistent with Minnesota Department
of Transportation
specifications for rights-of-way. Exceptions to seeding and mulching include
areas returned to agricultural production.
      4.   Soil restoration, seeding, and mulching must occur within each phase
as soon as final grades, or interim grades identified in the phasing plans,
have been reached. Exceptions to seeding and mulching include the processing,
storage, and staging areas within each phase.
      5.   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be consistent
with MPCA's "Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas."
      6.   Unless otherwise amended or approved by the Township, all final
grades and site restoration efforts shall be consistent with the Rehabilitation
Plan.
      7.   Within six (6) months after completion of mineral extraction or
after termination of the permit, all equipment, vehicles, machinery, materials,
and debris shall be removed from the subject property.
      8.   Within twelve (12) months after completion of mineral extraction or
after termination of the permit, site rehabilitation must be completed.
      9.   All water areas resulting from excavation shall be eliminated upon
rehabilitation of the site. In unique instances where the Town Board has
reviewed proposals for water bodies at the time of approval of the overall plan
and has determined that such would be appropriate as an open space or
recreational amenity in subsequent reuse of the site, water bodies may be
permitted.
7.25   Rural Retail Tourism business
   A.   Purpose.
   In accordance with the stated goals of the Lent Township Comprehensive Plan,
it is the purpose of this subdivision to:
      a.   Preserve and celebrate Lent Township's archaeological properties,
rural and agricultural heritage, and historical landscapes; and
      b.   Recognize scenic features, exceptional rural ambiance, historic
sites as desirable local amenities which will draw outside revenue from
visitors, that is vital to the local economy; and
      c.   Enhance the Township's appeal to visitors who are drawn to its rural
atmosphere; and
      d.   Provide opportunities for new economic growth; and
      e.   Assist the Township's citizens in the transition from primarily
agricultural land uses to an expanded variety or rural business opportunities;
and
      f.   Accommodate and acknowledge existing areas of low-density
residential use, agricultural use and open space use.
   B.   Condition Use Permit OR Interim Use Permit Required.
      a.   Conditional Use Permit: Rural Retail Tourism Business is allowed
with a conditional use permit (CUP) within the Rural Residential (RR) zoning
district and located within the Rural Business Overlay (RBO) as identified on
the official Land Use Plan contained within the Township's adopted
Comprehensive Plan.
      i.   Rural retail tourism businesses that require a CUP shall include
small scale, low impact uses such as farm or other historical heritage
attractions; crafting, weddings, receptions, bed & breakfasts; craft/antique
shops; unique local venues providing for the sale and serving of locally
produced raw and/or value-added agricultural products, goods and services and
other reasonably related merchandise; and other uses determined by the Township
to be similar in nature and scope.
      b.   Interim Use Permit: Rural retail tourism business is allowed with an
Interim Use Permit (IUP) within the Rural Residential (RR) zoning district and
located within the Rural Business Overlay (RBO) as identified on the official
Land Use Plan contained within the Township's adopted Comprehensive Plan.
      i.   Rural retail tourism businesses that require an Interim Use Permit
shall include small scale, low impact uses such as small scale, low impact
special events or music festivals, corn mazes, holiday celebrations and harvest
festivals; and other uses determined by the Township to be similar in nature
and scope.
   C.   The terms "small-scale" and "low-impact" shall be construed to refer to
land uses which:
      a.   Do not create an excessive demand upon existing services or
amenities;
      b.   Are screened or able to be screened adequately, or are sufficiently
separated from adjacent residential development or residentially used land, to
prevent undue negative impact to nearby properties;
      c.   Will not have an appearance that is inconsistent or incompatible
with the surrounding area;
      d.   Will not cause traffic hazard or undue congestion;
      e.   Will not negatively impact the neighborhood by intrusion of noise,
glare, odor, or other adverse effects.
   D.   All rural retail tourism businesses shall meet and follow the standards
for a Conditional Use Permit as defined within Section 8.05, or Interim Use
Permit as defined in Section 8.06 of this ordinance. The following additional
information shall be required for all Rural Retail Tourism Businesses:
      a.   Narrative describing how proposed use is consistent with the
Definition of Rural Retail Tourism businesses, and the adopted Comprehensive
Plan.
      b.   Hours of Operation
      c.   Proposed access, driveway design and any necessary road improvements
      d.   Trip counts during hours of operation, and estimates during AM and
PM peak hours. (if applicable)
      e.   Proposed signage and site lighting
      f.   Proposed parking areas with number of stalls identified
      g.   If a new use, Percolation Tests and designated SSTS area identified
on a site plan and submitted to Building Official for general acceptance.
   E.   If a structure(s) is planned to be retrofitted for the business, a plan
for upgrading the SSTS system or structure for compliance with current code
requirements must be submitted prior to permit approval. All existing buildings
proposed for use in association with the business shall be certified by an
architect or engineer to be in compliance with current structural standards.
   F.   If the proposed rural retail tourism business is located on a property
with a principal residential structure, Section 4.08 Accessory Structures and
Uses shall be followed.
   G.   Rural Retail Tourism businesses shall be shown to have a unique and
demonstrable relationship with Lent Township or its region, and its history,
culture, traditions, arts, crafts, lore, natural resources, or other features
and amenities, in accordance with the above stated purpose.
SECTION 8. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
8.01   Administrating Officer
   This Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator who shall be appointed by the Town Board and have those
authorities, duties and powers granted pursuant to the this Ordinance and the
procedures and requirements of Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations.
8.02   Fees and Administrative Charges
   A.   To defray the costs associated with administrative requests and
actions, the Township shall charge fees and administrative costs for
applications and other administrative actions as established within this
Ordinance and Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   B.   In order to defray the additional cost of processing applications for
amendment, conditional use, variance, or appeal for developments, all
applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant's request, and all
materials for said request.
   C.   As specified in Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations, all fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with
the Zoning Administrator and are not refundable unless application is withdrawn
prior to referral t the Planning Commission. The refund will be less any
expenses incurred prior to withdrawal. As specified in Chapter Six (6) of the
Lent Township Land Use Regulations, a deposit to cover staff or consulting time
and special materials will be established and required by the Zoning
Administrator at the time the base fee is paid.
8.03   Planning Commission
   The Planning Commission shall provide assistance to the Town Board and
Zoning Administrator in the administration of this ordinance and shall review,
hold public hearings, and make recommendations to the Town Board on all
applications for zoning amendments and conditional use permits using the
criteria in this Ordinance.
8.04   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall be responsible for the following:
   A.   To hear appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an administrative
official in the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance and make recommendations to
the Town Board on all applications for appeals.
   B.   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of this
Ordinance in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual property under
consideration and make recommendations to the Town Board on all applications
for variances.
8.05   Conditional Use Permits
   A.   Procedure
   Request for a Conditional Use Permit, as provided within this Ordinance,
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on an official application form.
The application shall also be accompanied by ten (10) copies of detailed
written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use. The Zoning Administrator shall refer said application
along with all related information, to the Township Planning Commission for
consideration including, but not limited to, the following:
      1.   Site plan drawn at scale showing parcel and building dimensions.
      2.   Location of all buildings and their square footage.
      3.   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces and off-street
loading areas.
      4.   Existing topography.
      5.   Finished grading and drainage plan.
      6.   Type of business or activity and proposed number of employees.
      7.   Proposed floor plan of any building and use indicated.
      8.   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day.
      9.   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use. If severe soil
limitations for the intended use are noted, a plan or Statement indicating the
soil conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome said limitation
shall be made part of the permit application.
      10.   A location map showing the general location of the proposed use
within the Township.
      11.   A map showing all principal land use within three hundred and fifty
(350) feet of the parcel for which application is being made.
      12.   Any other information deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator
or Planning Commission.
   B.   The Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper of the Township at least ten (10) days prior to the date
of the hearing. Written notice of public hearing for conditional uses shall be
sent to the Chisago County Board of Commissioners. Written notice shall also be
sent to all property owners of record within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the
affected property or the nearest ten (10) properties, whichever would provide
notice to the greatest number of owners. A copy of the notice and a list of the
property owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to
by the Zoning Administrator and made part of the official record. The failure
to give mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice,
shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply
with this subdivision has been made.
   C.   The Planning Commission shall consider possible affects of the proposed
conditional use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to, the
following general factors and any other requirements set forth in this
Ordinance.
      1.   The Comprehensive Plan and development policies of the Township.
      2.   The use will not create an excessive demand on existing parks,
schools, streets and other public facilities and utilities which serve or are
proposed to serve the area.
      3.   The use will be sufficiently compatible or separated by distance or
screening from adjacent development or land so that existing development will
not be depreciated in value and there will be no deterrence to development of
vacant land.
      4.   The structure and site shall have an appearance that will not have
an adverse effect upon adjacent properties.
      5.   The use in the opinion of the Township is reasonably related to the
overall needs of the Township and to the existing land use.
      6.   The use is consistent with the purposes of the zoning ordinance and
the purposes of the zoning District in which the applicant intends to locate
the proposed use.
      7.   The use will not cause traffic hazard or congestion.
      8.   Existing nearby businesses will not be adversely affected because of
curtailment of customer trade brought about by intrusion of noise, glare or
general unsightliness.
   D.   The Planning Commission and Township staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant and/or to retain an
independent consultant with the consent and at the expense of the applicant if
such information or independent review and advice is deemed necessary by the
Township to adequately protect the public interest during its review of the
request and the establishment of any performance conditions pursuant to this
Ordinance. Upon completion of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
make a finding of fact and recommend such actions or conditions relating to the
request to the Town Board. The Township may impose such additional restrictions
or conditions as deemed necessary to protect the public interest. When
appropriate, restrictive covenants may be entered into regarding such matters.
These conditions, may include but are not limited to the following:
      1.   Matters relating to the architecture or appearance,
      2.   Establishing hours of operation.
      3.   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension.
      4.   Limiting the height, size or location of buildings or other
structures or facilities, including requiring the underground placement of
essential services or transmission or distribution lines.
      5.   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points.
      6.   Increasing the street width.
      7.   Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces. 8.
Limiting the number, size, location or lighting of signs.
      9.   Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property.
      10.   Designating sites for open space.
   E.   Within sixty (60) days from the date a completed application is
received, the Town Board shall approve, modify or deny the request and state
the findings of its actions.
   F.   Approval of a Conditional Use Permit shall require passage by majority
vote of the full Town Board. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of the Town Board's action.
   G.   Reapplication/Lapse of Conditional Use Permit.
   Reapplication for the same or substantially same Conditional Use Permit
shall not be accepted within six (6) months of denial by the Board. Any
Conditional Use Permit approved but not utilized within twelve (12) months of
the date of approval shall become null and void.
   I.   Amended Conditional Use Permit.
   Any change involving structural alterations, enlargement, intensification of
use, or similar change not specifically permitted by the conditional use permit
issued shall require an amended conditional use permit and all procedures shall
apply as if a new permit were being issued.
   J.   Surety.
   The Town Board shall have the authority to require a letter of credit, cash
or other security when it is deemed necessary and appropriate.
8.06   Interim Use Permits
   A.   It is intended that the interim use permit procedures allow flexibility
in the use of land or structures in the Town, when the uses are not permanent
and when the uses meet appropriate conditions and performance standards that
protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Application, public hearing and procedure. The application, public
hearing, notice and procedure requirements for interim use permits shall be the
same as for Conditional Use Permits as identified in Section 8.05 of this
chapter. If a proposed interim use is not listed as a permitted interim use in
this chapter, a text amendment to this chapter will be required before an
interim use permit may be considered.
   C.   Termination. All interim use permits shall terminate on the happening
of any of the following events, whichever first occur:
      1.   The date stated on the permit;
      2.   Upon violation of the condition under which the permit was issued;
or
      3.   Upon change in the Township's zoning regulations that renders the
use nonconforming.
   D.   Standards. The interim use must be specifically listed in the zoning
district where the property is located. Where a conditional use permit is
required, an Applicant may choose to apply for an Interim Use Permit if
desired. The interim use must comply with the specific standards for the use
identified in this chapter and must comply with all conditions of approval.
   E.   Conditions. The Township may attach conditions to approval of a permit
to mitigate anticipated adverse impacts associated with the use to ensure
compliance with the standards of approval, to protect the value of other
adjacent property, and to achieve the goals and objectives of the comprehensive
plan.
8.07   Variances
   A.   Procedure.
   Requests for variances, as provided within this Ordinance, shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator on an official application form. The application
shall also be accompanied by copies of detailed written and graphic materials
fully explaining the proposed change, development and use. The Zoning
Administrator shall refer the application, along with all related information,
to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals for consideration.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by a site plan of the proposed
variance showing such information as may be necessary or desirable including,
but not limited to the following:
      1.   A specific description of the area for which the variance is
requested and addresses of all owners of property lying within five hundred
(500) feet of such area, and a description of the property owned by each.
      2.   Proposed use of land for which variance is requested.
      3.   A Statement of the compatibility of the proposed variance with the
Township Comprehensive Plan.
      4.   A legal description of the property for which the variance is
requested.
      5.   A detailed map of the property showing the location of proposed
buildings, and dimensional variances requested, and existing land uses and
buildings of adjacent properties within five hundred (500) feet.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, shall set a date for a public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of the Township at least ten (10) days
prior to the date of the hearing. Written notice of public hearing for
variances shall be sent to the Chisago County Board of Commissioners. Written
notice shall also be sent to all property owners of record within one-quarter
(1/4) mile of the affected property or the nearest ten (10) properties,
whichever would provide notice to the greatest number of owners. A copy of the
notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested to by the Zoning Administrator and made part of the
official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has been made.
   D.   A variance to the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance may be issued to
provide relief to the land owner in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes Section 462.357, Subdivision 6. No variance may be granted that would
allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning District in which the property
is located.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals and Township staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant or to retain
expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant if said
information is declared to be necessary by the Township to review the request
or to establish performance conditions in relation to this Ordinance.
   F.   Upon completion of the public hearing, the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals shall make a finding of fact and recommend such actions or conditions
relating to the request to the Town Board.
   G.   Within sixty (60) days from the date a completed application is
received, the Town Board shall approve or disapprove the request with
modifications, alterations, or differing conditions. Such modifications,
alterations, or differing conditions shall be in writing and made part of the
Board's records.
   H.   All decisions by the Town Board in granting variances shall be final
except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal within thirty
(30) days after receipt of notice of the decision to the District court.
   I.   Reapplication for the same or substantially same variance shall not be
accepted within six (6) months of denial by the Board. Any variance approved
but not utilized within twelve (12) months of the date of approval shall become
null and void.
   J.   Surety.
   The Town Board shall have the authority to require a letter of credit, cash
or other security when it is deemed necessary and appropriate.
8.08   Appeals
   A.   Procedure.
   An appeal, as provided within this Ordinance, shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on an official application form. Within thirty (30) days of
receipt of the application and all supporting information, the Zoning
Administrator shall refer said application, along with all related information,
to the Board of Adjustment and Appeals for consideration.
   B.   The application shall be accompanied by information which may be
necessary or desirable, including, but not limited to the following:
      1.   The particular order, requirement, decision or determination from
which the appeal is taken.
      2.   The name and address of the appellant.
      3.   The grounds for the appeal.
      4.   The relief requested by the appellant.
   C.   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from, unless the Board of Adjustment and Appeals, to whom the appeal is taken,
certifies that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate, a stay would
cause imminent peril to life or property.
   D.   The Zoning Administrator on behalf of the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, shall set a date for a hearing of the appeal and give due notice
thereof to the appellant, the officer from which the appeal is taken, and the
public.
   E.   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall consider the appeal and hold
such hearing at its next regular meeting. The appellant and officer from which
the appeal is taken shall appear before the Board of Adjustment and Appeals in
order to answer questions concerning the appeal. Upon completion of the public
hearing, the Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall make a finding of fact and
recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request to the Town Board.
   F.   Within sixty (60) days from the date a completed application is
received, the Town Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify
the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and, to that
extent, shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was taken
and may direct the issuance of a permit. The reasons for the Board's decisions
shall be stated in writing.
   G.   All decisions by the Town Board on appeals from any administrative
order, requirement, decision, or determination shall be final except that any
aggrieved person(s) shall have the right to appeal within thirty (30) days
after receipt of notice of the decision to the District Court.
8.09   Amendments
   A.   Initiation of Amendments.
   The Town Board or Planning Commission may, upon its own motion, initiate a
request to amend the text or the District boundaries of this Ordinance. Any
person owning real estate within the Township may initiate a request to amend
the District boundaries or text of this Ordinance so as to affect the said real
estate. All amendment requests must first be reviewed by the Planning
Commission.
   B.   Procedure.
   Requests for amendments, as provided within this Ordinance, shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator on an official application form. The Zoning
Administrator shall refer said application, along with all related information,
to the Township Planning Commission for consideration. Such application shall
be accompanied by written and graphic materials containing the following
information:
      1.   Stated reason for requested change.
      2.   Statement of compatibility with the Comprehensive Plan.
      3.   Text of portion of the existing ordinance to be amended.
      4.   Proposed amended text and Statements outlining any other effects
that the amendment may have on other areas of this Ordinance.
      5.   Additional information as may be requested by the Planning
Commission.
   C.   The Zoning Administrator, on behalf of the Planning Commission, shall
set a date for a public hearing. Notice of such hearing shall be published in
the official newspaper of the Township at least ten (10) days prior to the date
of the hearing. Written notice of public hearing for amendment shall be sent to
the Chisago County Board of Commissioners. Written notice shall also be sent to
all property owners of record within one-quarter (1/4) mile of the affected
property or the nearest ten (10) properties, whichever would provide notice to
the greatest number of owners. A copy of the notice and a list of the property
owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to by the
Zoning Administrator and made part of the official record. The failure to give
mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the notice, shall
not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona fide attempt to comply with
this subdivision has been made.
   D.   The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of the proposed
amendment. The Township may adopt amendments to the Zoning Ordinance and zoning
map in relation both to land uses within a particular District or to the
location of the District lines. Such amendments shall not be issued
indiscriminately, but shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the
goals and policies of the community as reflected in the Comprehensive Plan or
changes in conditions in the Township. The following factors shall also be
considered:
      1.   Whether the amendment will create an excessive demand on existing
parks, schools, streets and other public facilities and utilities which serve
or are proposed to serve the area.
      2.   Whether the amendment is sufficiently compatible so that existing
development will not be depreciated in value and there will be no deterrence to
development of vacant land.
      3.   The amendment in the opinion of the Township is reasonably related
to the overall needs of the Township.
      4.   The amendment is consistent with the intent and purposes of the
zoning ordinance.
      5.   The amendment will not cause traffic hazard or congestion.
   E.   The Planning Commission and Township staff shall have the authority to
request additional information from the applicant or to retain expert testimony
with the consent and at the expense of the applicant if said information is
declared to be necessary by the Township in reviewing the request. Upon
completion of the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a finding
of fact and recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request to the
Town Board.
   F.   Within sixty (60) days from the date a completed application is
received, the Town Board shall either approve, modify or disapprove the request
and State the findings of its action. Approval of a request shall require
passage by a majority vote of the full Town Board. The Zoning Administrator
shall notify the applicant of the Town Board's action.
8.10   Penalties and Violations
   A.   Any firm, person, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine and/or imprisonment as provided by law.
   B.   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be guilty of an administrative offense and shall be
subject to the administrative penalties established in Chapter Six (6) of the
Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   C.   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   D.   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any of the terms
of this ordinance, the Township may take appropriate action to enforce this
Ordinance, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action to court if necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations.
   E.   Upon motion, the court may award costs, disbursements and reasonable
attorney's fees and witness fees, which costs and fees can be assessed against
the property.
8.11   Repealer
   This Ordinance repeals all other land use regulations and ordinances
previously adopted or enacted by Lent Township, and all amendments thereto.
8.12   Date of Effect
   This ordinance takes effect upon its adoption and publication according to
law.
   Whereupon said Ordinance was declared passed adopted this 17 day of March,
2015, by the Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
   Gene W. Olson   
   Gene Olson, Chairman
   Laura LeVasseur   
   Attest: Laura LeVasseur, Town Clerk
   Ordinance 2019-06 approved 11-19-2019
   Oridinance 2020-04 approved 05-17-2022
CHAPTER THREE SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE
   An Ordinance relating to, and regulating the subdivision of lands within
Lent Township, Chisago County, Minnesota for the purpose of promoting and
protecting the public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity, and
general welfare of Lent Township.
   Lent Township ordains as follows:
SECTION 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.01   Title
   This ordinance shall be known as the LENT TOWNSHIP SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE,
except as referred to herein as "this Ordinance." The provisions of this
Ordinance shall apply to all lands and properties within Lent Township, Chisago
County, Minnesota.
1.02   Purpose
   The purpose of this Ordinance is to:
   A.   Protect the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.   Protect the natural resources of the County.
   C.   Encourage well-planned, efficient and attractive subdivisions with
appropriate standards for design and construction.
   D.   Establish minimum standards for right-of-way and park dedication.
   E.   Provide for the health and safety of residents by requiring properly
designed streets and environmentally sound sewer and water systems.
   F.   Ensure that the costs of new development are borne by benefited
properties and not the community at large.
   G.   Protect existing and future investments and property values.
   H.   Secure the rights of the public with respect to access to public lands
and waters.
   I.   Promote and protect the compatibility of land uses.
   J.   Implement the Lent Township Comprehensive Guide Plan.
1.03   Interpretation
   The provisions of this Ordinance shall be interpreted to be the minimum
requirements necessary to promote and protect the public health, safety and
general welfare.
1.04   Scope
   This Ordinance shall apply to the subdivision or resubdivision of all land
within Lent Township, as permitted by law. No land within this jurisdiction
shall be subdivided in a manner inconsistent with this Ordinance. No permits
for any improvements will be issued on any land which has been subdivided in a
manner inconsistent with this Ordinance. In the event the provisions of this
Ordinance conflict with any other ordinances or regulations having
jurisdiction, the more restrictive provisions shall apply.
1.05. Conformance with Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance
   The subdivision or resubdivision of land shall not be inconsistent with the
Lent Township Comprehensive Plan and Lent Township Zoning Ordinance.
1.06   Platting Required
   No parcel of land shall be permitted to be conveyed by metes and bounds
description after June 1, 1999, except in accordance with the circumstances and
provisions described below:
   A.   The parcel is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of
not less than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet in any
dimension, and its conveyance does not result in the division of the parcel
into two or more lots or parcels, any one of which is less than 20 acres in
area or 500 feet in width;
   B.   The parcel is created by "minor subdivision" which shall be defined as
the separation of a single parcel of land separated from an original parent
parcel, when the following circumstances exists:
      1.   . The new parcel is not less than 2.5 (two and ½) acres in size,
with a minimum width of 165 feet fronting on a public road;
      2.   The minor subdivision is for the purpose of separating a residence
and accessory buildings from the balance of the larger parcel, provided that:
      a.   The residence and buildings existed upon the date of enactment of
this ordinance.
      b.   The minor subdivision results in no substandard yard and/or
structure setback, other substandard dimensional element, or any new
nonconformity.
      3.   The resulting remainder parcel is not less than 20 acres in size,
and/or 500 feet in width;
      4.   A minimum of one acre of buildable land is demonstrated to exist on
the newly created residential parcel;
      5.   The new parcel is surveyed and legally described by a Minnesota-
licensed land surveyor;
      6.   The certificate of survey and legal description are presented to the
Township Zoning Administrator and reviewed by the Planning Commission for
approval by the Township Board.
      7.   The certificate of survey and legal description are recorded at the
office of the Chisago County Recorder.
1.07   Deadline for Action
   It is the intent of the Township to comply with State requirements for
timely review and actions requiring formal approval by the Township.
Information submissions and applications must be determined by the Township to
be complete before a timeline for action is initiated. A preliminary plat shall
be approved or disapproved by the Town Board within sixty (60) days of the date
a completed application was received by the Township, unless a written
extension is granted by the applicant. A final plat shall be approved or
disapproved by the Town Board within sixty (60) days of the date of a completed
application, unless a written extension is granted by the applicant. A final
plat shall be approved when conditions of the preliminary approval have been
met. The timeframe for all other subdivisions shall not exceed the above
timetable; however, the Township may combine the preliminary and final review.
In the event that multiple approvals are involved in any action, such as Zoning
Ordinance amendment, Comprehensive Plan amendment, environmental review,
preliminary plat and final plat, each action shall require a separate,
independent timeline for action.
1.08   Lot Reconfiguration
   The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to approve a division of land
where a portion of a lot of record is conveyed to the owners of the adjoining
lot of record for the purpose of enlarging the latter provided the size of the
remaining lot meets the minimum lot size and area requirements for the Zoning
District. The Zoning Administrator may require such restrictive language on the
document of conveyance as is deemed appropriate to protect and maintain the
provisions of this Ordinance or any other Township ordinances. The Zoning
Administrator shall verify approval of the conveyance by stating thereon:
"Approved under Section 1.08 of Lent Township Subdivision Ordinance" and
thereunder providing the date and signature. Upon approval, the document may be
recorded with the County Recorder.
1.09   Lot Line Adjustment
   When a proposed subdivision realigns common lot lines and by so doing does
not create additional buildable lots and does not create any lot which is
substandard for the applicable zoning district, or any overlay district, in
which it lies and for which is not created a need for a new road, such new
property description may be approved by the zoning administrator if it is found
the resulting configuration will not have adverse effects on surrounding
property. Should the zoning administrator determine that the realignment of
common lot lines may have an adverse effect on adjoining property, the zoning
administrator shall require the subdivision to proceed pursuant to applicable
provisions of this Code.
1.10   Exceptions for Single Lot Division
   Upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the Town Board may waive
some of the platting requirements for a single lot subdivided from a large
parcel. This provision is not intended to allow piecemeal subdivision of land;
rather, it is intended to allow one-time exceptions to some of the requirements
of this Ordinance for one-time, single lot divisions.
   Under these circumstances, the Township may limit ordinance and platting
requirements to the parcel being separated and exempt the larger remnant from
surveying, topographic or wetland delineation, and other platting requirements.
1.11   Transfer of Development Rights
   The use of transferred development rights or credits to achieve smaller lot
sizes or increased development density, not conforming with this Ordinance,
shall be prohibited.
SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Ordinance
shall be interpreted with the same meaning they have in common usage. For the
purpose of this Ordinance, the words "must" and "shall" are mandatory and not
permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally. The following words and terms wherever they occur in this
Ordinance are defined as follows:
   Alley   A dedicated public right-of-way providing a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
   Applicant   The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or a representative.
Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   Attorney   The Township Attorney of Lent Township, Minnesota or an
authorized representative.
   Block   The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines or
boundaries of the subdivision.
   Bond   Any form of security including a cash deposit, collateral, property,
or instrument or credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the Governing
Body. All bonds shall be approved by the Governing Body wherever a bond is
required by these regulations.
   Boulevard   The portion of the street right-of-way between the traveled road
surface and the property line.
   Butt lot   A lot at the end of a block and located between two corner lots.
   Certificate of Survey   A graphic representation of the boundary survey of a
parcel of real property along with the description of the land and the signed
certification of a Registered Minnesota Land Surveyor.
   Clustered or Clustering   A development pattern and technique whereby
structures or building sites are arranged in close proximity to one another in
non-linear groups, adjacent to permanently preserved common open space, so as
to make the most efficient and visually aesthetic use of the natural features
of the landscape and maximize visualization of permanently preserved open
space.
   Collector street or road   A road intended to move traffic from local roads
to secondary roads.
   Comprehensive Plan   The plan or plans for the orderly growth of Lent
Township as adopted and amended from time to time by the Planning Advisory
Commission and the Town Board.
   Condominium plats   The condominium law given in State Statutes Chapter 515
specific procedures for surveying condominium subdivisions.
   Conservation Subdivision   A method of subdivision characterized by common
open space and clustered compact lots, with the purpose of protecting natural
resources to the greatest extent possible, while allowing for increased
residential densities. Site designs incorporate standards of low impact
development, such as maximum road setbacks for structures, and preservation of
trees, shoreline, unique resources, and scenic vistas, and these developments
use stormwater designs that emphasize on-site retention and infiltration
through the preservation of native vegetation, use of pervious surfaces, rain
gardens, and swales.
   Contour line   A line connecting points that are at the same elevation.
Contour interval is the vertical height between contour lines.
   Corner lot   A lot bordered on at least two (2) adjacent sides by streets.
   Covenants   Legal restrictions, usually recorded, which govern uses and
dimensional standard of land or structures or both.
   Cul-De-Sac   A minor street with only one outlet and having a turnaround.
   Design Standards   Minimum requirements for the preparation and layout or
plats, planned unit developments, other subdivisions, and public improvements.
   Developer   The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or his
representative. Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   Double frontage lot   A lot which has a front line abutting on one street
and a back or rear line abutting on another street.
   Drainage course   A water course or indenture for the drainage of surface
water. This includes natural waterways as well as man-made waterways.
   Easement   A grant by an owner of land for the specific use by persons other
than the owner, or the public.
   Engineer   An engineer registered in the State of Minnesota.
   Escrow   In lieu of an amount required and still in force on a letter of
credit, performance bond or maintenance bond. Such escrow funds shall be
deposited by the Township Treasurer Inspector in a separate account.
   Final plat   The map or plan or record of a subdivision and any accompanying
material, as described in these regulations.
   Frontage road   A local street parallel to and adjacent to a highway or
major thoroughfare, designed to provide direct access to land in lieu of direct
access from a highway or major thoroughfare.
   Governing Body   The Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
   Grade   The slope of a road, street, or other public way, specified in
percentage (%) terms.
   Land Survey   The process of determining boundaries and areas of tracts of
land.
   Lot   A single parcel of land within a subdivision marked as a numbered
tract to be offered as a unit of land for sale, lease, or separate use thereof.
Outlots are included, but are designated by alphabetical letters.
   Major subdivision   All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to subdivisions of four (4) or more lots, or any size
subdivision requiring any new street or extension of the local government
facilities, or the creation of any public improvements.
   Metes and bounds   A description of real property which is not described by
reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by starting at a
known point and describing the bearings and distances of the lines forming the
boundaries of the property, or a description which delineates a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   Minimum subdivision design standards The guides, principles, and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plans indicating among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the preliminary plat.
   Minor street   A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
the abutting properties.
   Outlot   A lot remnant or any parcel of land included in a plat, which may
be used as open space. Such outlot may be a large tract that could be
subdivided in the future or may be too small to comply with the minimum size
requirements of zoning and subdivision ordinances or otherwise unsuitable for
development and therefore not usable as a building site as it currently exists.
   Owner   An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
   Park   Public land utilized for active or passive recreational purposes or
natural resource management.
   Park dedication   Land or cash in lieu of land which is dedicated for public
use through the platting process, in a size or amount commensurate with the
magnitude of the subdivision.
   Pedestrian Way or Trail   A public right-of-way across or within a block, to
be used for non-motorized use and pedestrians.
   Person   Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity.
   Plat   A map or drawing, conforming to State statutes, which graphically
delineates the boundaries and dimensions of land parcels for the purpose of
identification and record or title.
   Planned Unit Development   A type of subdivision and development
characterized by a unified site design for a number of dwelling units on a
parcel, also involving clustering of these units to provide areas of common
open space, density increases, and a mix of structure types and land uses.
   Planning Commission   A group of individuals appointed by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors to serve as the planning agency for the Township .
   Preliminary plat   A preliminary map or drawing indicating the proposed
layout of a subdivision of land.
   Private street   A privately owned street not dedicated to the public which
serves two (2) or more parcels of land.
   Protective covenants   Contracts entered into between private parties and
constituting a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners, and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
   Registered Land Survey   A method of surveying Torrens (or Registered) land
following the procedures in State Statutes Chapter 508.47, as amended.
   Remnant parcel   An irregular tract of land, which serves no public purpose
and is not in conformance with Township Ordinances. Remnant parcels shall not
be permitted.
   Reserve Strip   A narrow strip of land placed between lot lines and streets
to control access.
   Resubdivision or Replat   A change in any parcel of an approved or recorded
subdivision plat.
   Right-of-way   Land dedicated for public use including, but not limited to,
streets, pedestrian ways and authorized utilities.
   Riparian   Pertains to lands connected with or adjacent to the banks of a
stream, lake or other body of water.
   Service lane   A frontage road or internal street, which provides access to
abutting properties and protects through traffic.
   Sketch plan   A drawing which shows the conceptual subdivision of property.
   Street   A right-of-way for vehicular movement, including bicycle and
pedestrian movement when appropriately designed.
   Street width   The distance between the lines delineating the traveled
portion of a street.
   Subdivider   The owner, agent, or person having control of such land as the
term is used in this Ordinance.
   Subdivision   The division of a parcel of land into two (2) or more lots or
parcels, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development. The
term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate
to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   Surveyor   A land surveyor registered under Minnesota state laws.
   Thoroughfare   A street primarily designated to carry large volumes of
traffic and provide for vehicular movement between and among large areas.
   Township   Lent Township, Minnesota
   Town Board   The Lent Township Board of Supervisors
   Watercourse   A passage way in the surface of the earth so situated having
such a topographical nature that surface water flows through it from other
areas before reaching a final ponding area. The term includes both natural
passage ways and drainage structures that have been constructed or placed for
the purpose of conducting water from one place to another.
   Vicinity map   Also known as a key map or location map. A map drawn to
comparatively small scale which shows the area proposed to be platted in
relation to known geographical features, i.e. town centers, lakes, roads.
   Zoning Administrator   A person or persons appointed by the Town Board of
Supervisors to administer and enforce this Ordinance.
   Zoning Ordinance   Chapter Two (2) of the Official Lent Township Land Use
Regulations. The Ordinance regulating the use and development of lands within
Lent Township.
SECTION 3. PLATTING PROCEDURE
3.01   Sketch plan
   Sketch Plan - In order to ensure that all applicants for subdivisions are
informed of the platting procedure and the requirements of this Ordinance and
related ordinances, the subdivider is encouraged to consult with the Township
Zoning Administrator and the Township Engineer. At the time of this initial
conference, the subdivider shall present a sketch plan for review. The plan
shall be drawn to scale and show the proposed subdivision of the property
including the proposed street layout, proposed lots, significant topographical
and physical features, and adjacent land use. The developer shall make use of
quadrangle maps, air photo maps, half-section maps or other maps or plats to
construct the sketch plan.
3.02   Preparing and Submitting the Preliminary Plat
   The owner or subdivider shall file with the Zoning Administrator:
   A.   Completed application forms for the proposed subdivision.
   B.   A cash platting fee and deposit to be determined by resolution of the
Town Board.
   C.   A minimum of twelve (12) copies of the preliminary plat.
   D.   A copy of any protective covenants in the proposed subdivision.
   E.   If the subdivider requests, or the Township requires that any existing
special assessments which have been levied against the premises described in
the subdivision be divided and allocated to the respective lots in the
subdivision plat, the Assessor shall estimate the clerical cost of preparing
the revised assessment roll, filing the same with the Township auditor, and
making such division and allocation, and upon approval by the Township of such
estimated cost the same shall be paid to the Township treasurer in addition to
the fee mentioned in subparagraph 3.02A above, to cover the cost of preparing
and filing such revised assessment.
3.03   Preliminary Plat Requirements
   A.   Identification and Description.
   The preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision shall contain and have
attached thereto the following information:
      1.   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or be
similar in pronunciation of the name of any other plat on record in the
Township.
      2.   Legal description of property.
      3.   Names and addresses of the owners, and any agent having control of
the lands, subdivider, surveyor, engineer and designer of the plat.
      4.   Graphic scale not less than one (1) inch to one hundred (100) feet,
except for large subdivisions where a smaller scale may be acceptable.
      5.   North point and vicinity map of area showing well known geographical
points for orientation within a one-half mile radius.
      6.   Date of preparation.
   B.   Existing Conditions.
   The preliminary plat shall have the following information concerning the
property in and surrounding the proposed subdivision:
      1.   The outside boundary lines of the subdivision clearly shown.
      2.   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision.
      3.   Approximate total acreage.
      4.   Location, right-of-way width and names of existing or platted
streets or other public ways, parks and other public lands, permanent buildings
and structures, easements and section and corporate lines within the
preliminary plat and to a distance of one hundred (100) feet beyond shall also
be indicated.
      5.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other
underground facilities within the preliminary plat area and to a distance of
one hundred (100) feet beyond. Such data as grades, locations of catch basins,
manholes, hydrants and street pavement width and type shall also be shown.
      6.   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land, within
one hundred (100) feet, identified by name and ownership, but including all
contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider.
      7.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two (2) feet except where the horizontal contour interval is one
hundred (100) feet or more, a one (1) foot vertical interval shall be shown.
Water courses, marshes, wooded areas, rock outcrops, power transmission poles
and lines, and other significant features shall also be shown.
      8.   National Geodetic Vertical Datum 1927 adjustment shall be used for
elevations and topographic mapping, unless deemed unnecessary by the Township.
The source of the topographic contours shall be given, whether done by survey
crew methods, aerial photography, or using existing topographical maps and then
only by identifying the source and date of such maps.
      9.   A copy of all proposed private restrictions (also known as
Protective Covenants).
      10.   Description of the soils on the site and soil test results
demonstrating the adequacy of the property for proposed development in terms of
ground water level, load bearing quality and percolation rate.
      11.   On all lakes, ponds, wetlands (including delineation required in
the Wetland Conservation Act), rivers and other waterways, present water
surface elevations, water depth, natural ordinary high water elevations and
proposed 100-year flood elevations (if available) shall be denoted.
   C.   Design features.
   The following design features of the proposed subdivision shall be shown on
the preliminary plat as follows:
      1.   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and proposed
names of streets. Street names shall conform to the Lent Township uniform
street naming and property numbering system as applicable.
      2.   Locations and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements.
      3.   Lot and block numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks
and area of each lot.
      4.   Minimum front, side and rear building setback lines, and including
setback lines from lake shores and river fronts.
      5.   Bluff lines and the minimum setback lines from the bluff line.
      6.   Location and size of proposed sanitary sewer lines and water mains
if applicable.
      7.   Gradients of proposed streets, sewer lines and water mains. Plans
and profiles showing locations and typical cross- sections of street pavement
including curbs, gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements, servitude right-of-
ways, manholes and catch basins.
      8.   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of such areas.
      9.   Grading and drainage plan for entire subdivision. The grading plan
shall identify existing vegetation and woodlands on the site and clearly
delineate areas where vegetation will be removed. If any fill or excavation is
proposed in a wetland or lake, approval must be obtained from the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, the Army Corps of Engineers and the Township,
if applicable. The drainage plan shall include the current rate storm water is
conveyed from the site and the receiving water for the runoff. The plan shall
reveal that there will be no net increase in the rate or quantity of runoff
leaving the site as a result of development.
      10.   Erosion and sediment control plan, incorporating Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency "best management practices."
      11.   In subdivisions where public water and sewer services are not
presently available, the Township may require the developer to submit a
preliminary resubdivision plan showing a potential and feasible way in which
the lot or lots may be re-subdivided in future years when public facilities may
be provided. The undeveloped lots may be conveyed to other persons or entities
and building development may be permitted on the previously undeveloped lots at
the setbacks described in the district in which it is located.
   D.   Other information.
   The following additional information shall be provided concerning the
proposed subdivision:
      1.   A statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwelling units; type of business or industry
so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards and
congestion of population.
      2.   Source of water supply.
      3.   Provisions for sewage disposal, surface water, drainage and flood
control.
      4.   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan for
the areas including dimensions.
      5.   Such other information as may be requested by the Zoning
Administrator, Engineer, Surveyor or Planning Commission.
      6.   Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for the subdivision, the Planning Commission may require that the
subdivider submit a preliminary plat of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions must be shown to relate well with
existing or potential adjacent subdivisions and land use.
   E.   Developer's Agreement.
   Where the subdivider has negotiated with the Town Board or Planning
Commission to dedicate public or private park land, trails, or other
specifically dedicated lands, or provide any public services or utilities, or
vacate, create, dedicate, modify or relocate a Township road, or make the
Township responsible for any other aspect of the development, use or operation
of the proposed subdivision, the subdivider shall enter into a Development
Agreement with the Township which fully sets forth all conditions, obligations,
specifications and responsibilities to be placed upon the developer and the
Township.
      1.   Any Developer's Agreement shall be considered to be an integral part
of the proposed subdivision and any actions taken by the Planning Commission
and Town Board shall include any associated Developer's Agreement.
      2.   The Town Board shall retain full discretion to accept, reject or
modify any or all provisions of any proposed Developer's Agreement reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission.
   F.   Environmental Review.
   An environmental review may be required for projects that may have the
potential for significant environmental effects. The Minnesota Environmental
Policy Act of 1973 and 6 MCAR 3.021 allows for the preparation of Environmental
Impact Statements and Environmental Assessment Worksheets for mandatory
development thresholds or discretionary environmental reviews ordered by the
responsible government unit.
      1.   No preliminary plat may be approved, nor may any land disturbance
activity be allowed, until such Environmental Assessment Worksheet or
Environmental Impact Statement, whether mandated by the State or ordered by the
responsible government unit, has been prepared, referred for review and acted
upon.
      2.   The Township or responsible government unit shall prepare, at the
developer's expense, any state mandated Environmental Assessment Worksheet or
Environmental Impact Statement for the project. The Township or responsible
government unit shall prepare, with the developer's input and assistance, any
discretionary Environmental Assessment Worksheet or Environmental Impact
Statement.
3.04   Review of Preliminary Plat
   Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, completed application form and
application fee, the Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the preliminary
plat as follows:
   A.   Seven (7) copies to the Planning Commission
   B.   One (1) copy to the Township Engineer
   C.   Two (2) copies to the Township Surveyor
   D.   One (1) copy to the Town Board
   E.   One (1) copy retained by the Zoning Administrator
   F.   If the proposed subdivision abuts any Federal or State trunk highway,
one (1) copy to the Minnesota Department of Transportation.
   G.   If the proposed subdivision abuts any County highway, one (1) copy to
the Chisago County Engineer.
   H.   The Zoning Administrator shall set a date for a public hearing on the
plat. The Planning Commission shall conduct the hearing and report upon the
findings. The Zoning Administrator shall cause notice of said hearing to be
published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing.
   I.   The Planning Commission shall have the preliminary plat on its agenda
at a regular meeting following referral. This meeting date may serve as the
public hearing date.
   J.   After the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall determine
whether the preliminary plat conforms to design standards set forth in this
Ordinance and conforms to the Comprehensive Guide Plan and the Zoning
Ordinance. The Commission shall recommend approval or denial of the preliminary
plat, or may recommend approval, subject to certain conditions, and forward its
findings to the Town Board.
   K.   The Town Board shall act on the preliminary plat within sixty (60) days
of the date on which the completed application was received, unless a delay is
consented to by the applicant in writing. If the report of the Planning
Commission has not been received in time to meet these requirements, the Town
Board may act on the preliminary plat without such a report.
   L.   If the preliminary plat is not approved, the reasons for such action
shall be recorded in the proceedings. If the preliminary plat is approved, such
approval shall not constitute final acceptance of the subdivision. Final
approval is not granted until all conditions of preliminary plat approval have
been met and the final plat is approved and recorded.
   M.   Should the subdivider desire to amend the preliminary plat as approved,
the amended plan must be resubmitted and shall repeat the same procedure. If in
the opinion of the Planning Commission, the modifications are incidental to the
original plat, the requirements for a public hearing and fees may be waived.
3.05   Preparing and Filing the Final Plat
   A.   After the approval and endorsement of a preliminary plat, the final
plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor who is registered in the State of
Minnesota and shall conform to all the requirements of State and County law.
   B.   Unless an extension of time is requested by the subdivider and granted
by the Town Board upon recommendation of the Planning Commission, the
subdivider shall within one (1) year, following approval of the preliminary
plat, submit to the Zoning Administrator twenty (20) copies of the final plat,
together with an up-to-date abstract of title or Certificate of Title, title
opinion by the subdivider's attorney and the surveyor's worksheet or
computation sheet for the subdivision. If the subdivider fails to submit the
final plat to the Zoning Administrator within the designated period without
requesting and receiving an extension of time, the approval and endorsement of
the preliminary plat, including any rezoning necessitated by the preliminary
plat, will be deemed void, and the subdivider shall initiate a new proceeding
in the manner provided in Section 3.02.
   C.   Extensions of the period in which to file the final plat may be granted
where the preliminary plat, because of its size, is to be developed in stages.
The subdivider must submit an estimated time schedule for future staging of the
platting and recording of each stage of the development. Final plats for the
portion of the approved plan which is proposed for immediate development,
conforming to all requirements of this Ordinance, must be filed within the
required time, and the final plat for each succeeding stage of the development
must be filed in accordance with the extensions granted by the Town Board. Each
final plat shall incorporate all changes, modifications and revisions of the
preliminary plat as recommended by the Planning Commission and approved by the
Town Board. Except as so modified, the final plats shall conform to the
preliminary plat. Where the subdivision is to be developed in stages, the final
plat may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the
subdivider proposes to record and develop at that time.
   D.   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 505.
   E.   The taxes on the parcels of land being platted must be paid in full in
the year the plat is recorded. Along with submission of the final plat, the
subdivider shall furnish proof of payment of these taxes.
   F.   The land surveyor shall certify on the plat that the plat is a correct
representation of the survey, that all the distances are correctly shown on the
plat, that all monuments have been correctly placed on the ground as shown,
that the outside boundary lines are correctly designated on the plat. The
surveyor shall also state on the plat if there are no wetlands or public
highways to be designated in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Section
505.02.
3.07 Review of the Final Plat
   A.   The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the final plat to the
Planning Commission and the Township Attorney. The Township Attorney shall also
receive an up-to-date abstract of title or a Certificate of Title and the
opinion of title prepared by the subdivider's attorney and addressed to the
Lent Township Board.
   B.   The following reports shall be submitted to the Town Board within
forty-five (45) days after the submission of the final plat to the Zoning
Administrator:
      1.   Before a final plat is filed, the applicant shall submit a letter
from an acceptable Registered Minnesota Land Surveyor stating the final plat
was checked for mathematical accuracy, conforms with Minnesota State Statutes,
Chapter 505, and conforms to the provisions of the Township Ordinances;
      2.   Before a final plat is filed, the applicant shall submit a letter
from an acceptable Registered Professional Engineer stating the final plat was
checked and the proposed improvements conform to all engineering standards,
including requirements of the Minnesota Department of Transportation, if
applicable;
      3.   Before a final plat is filed, the applicant shall submit a letter
from their attorney stating that the fee simple title to the platted property
is in the names of the subdividers;
      4.   The Zoning Administrator shall confirm that the final plat
substantially conforms to the preliminary plat as modified and approved by the
Town Board.
   C.   If any of the reports required by Section 3.07B cannot be made within
the prescribed period because of the non- conformity of the final plat to the
preliminary plat or the non-compliance with any applicable Statute or Township
ordinance, the Town Board shall refer the final plat to the Planning
Commission. Within forty-five (45) days after the final plat is received by the
Planning Commission from the Town Board, the Planning Commission shall report
its recommendations to the Town Board.
   D.   The Town Board shall act on the final plat within sixty (60) days of
the date on which it was accepted by the Zoning Administrator, except that if
the final plat is referred back to the Planning Commission pursuant to Section
3.07C, final action must be taken within sixty (60) days after the date on
which it was referred to the Planning Commission.
   F.   Prior to the approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall either
have installed all required improvements or executed agreement with the
Township for their installation. Required improvements shall conform to
standards set forth in this Ordinance or other applicable standards.
   G.   When the final plat is approved by the Town Board, the subdivider shall
submit hard copies of the final plat for recording and plat data in an
electronic format. In addition to one of the full size reproducible copies, a
transparent reproducible copy of a scale of one (1) inch to two hundred (200)
feet shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
   F.   The subdivider shall record the final plat in the office of the County
Recorder within one hundred twenty (120) days of its approval by the Town
Board. Any plat not recorded within the prescribed period shall be void.
SECTION 4. MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS
4.01   Land Requirements
   Each lot created through subdivision must be suitable in its natural state
for the proposed use with minimal alteration. No preliminary plat shall be
approved if the site is not suitable for the proposed purposes. Reasons for
rejecting a preliminary plat include, but are not limited to, potential
flooding, protected waters and wetlands, adverse earth or rock formations, poor
soil suitability, excessive slopes and inaccessibility. The following specific
requirements shall also apply to all proposed subdivisions:
   A.   A lot intended as a buildable site shall meet the minimum standards of
the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance and contain sufficient buildable area to
accommodate the construction of two standard on-site sewage treatment systems.
   B.   Land subject to hazards to life, health or property shall not be
subdivided for residential purposes until all such hazards have been eliminated
or unless adequate safeguards against such hazards are provided by the
subdivision plan.
   C.   Proposed subdivisions shall be compatible with existing land uses and
consistent with the Lent Township Comprehensive Plan.
   D.   Proposed land uses shall conform to the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance.
   E.   All development activities shall be constructed and maintained in a
manner consistent with area surface water management plans. The Township may
refer all construction plans to the local watershed management agency for
review and approval. Drainage and ponding requirements shall be consistent with
the Nationwide Urban Runoff Program standards and the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency's "Best Management Practices."
   F.   All construction plans shall include erosion control and sedimentation
control plan, which are consistent with the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency's "Best Management Practices." Plans shall identify locations of
temporary construction and earthen material stockpiles and the beginning and
ending dates of all construction and land disturbance activities.
   G.   All development activities involving wetlands shall be conducted in a
manner consistent with the Wetland Conservation Act of 1991, as amended.
4.02   Block Requirements
   Blocks shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Block size and dimensions within bounding streets shall accommodate the
size of residential lots required in the area by the Lent Township Zoning
Ordinance and shall provide for convenient access, circulation control and
safety of street traffic.
   B.   In residential areas, other than water frontage, blocks longer than one
thousand, three hundred twenty (1,320) feet in length measured along the
greatest dimension of the enclosed block area may be required to include future
street easements or rights-of-way to reduce excessive block length and
accommodate future access provisions, unless minor exceptions are necessitated
by topography or conformance with an adjoining plat.
   C.   Blocks for commercial and industrial areas may vary from the elements
of design contained in this section if the nature of the use requires other
treatment. In such cases, off-street parking for employees and customers shall
be provided along with safe and convenient limited access to the street system.
Space for off-street loading shall also be provided with similar access.
Extensions of right-of-way for road, railroads, and utilities shall be provided
as necessary.
   D.   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with a minimum
depth as required by the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance except when adjoining a
lake, stream, railroad or thoroughfare or where one tier of lots is necessary
because of topographic conditions.
4.03   Lot Requirements
   Lots shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight road
lines or radial to curved road lines or radial to lake or stream shores unless
topographic conditions necessitate a different arrangement.
   B.   Each lot shall front upon a public street for the minimum lot width
required, except as otherwise provided in this Ordinance.
   C.   No lot shall have less area or width than is required by zoning
regulations applying to the area in which it is located, except as herein
provided. In Conservation Subdivisions or Planned Unit Developments the lot
area requirements may be calculated to include the land areas to the centerline
of the platted road.
   D.   Lots designed for commercial or industrial purposes shall provide
adequate off-the-street service, loading and parking facilities.
   E.   Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel or stream shall
have an additional depth or width, as required to obtain the height necessary
to assure building sites that are not subject to flooding.
   F.   Lots with lakeshore frontage shall be designed so that the lot lines
extended shall maintain the closest approximation to riparian rights.
   G.   In the subdividing of any land, amenities such as tree growth, water
courses, historic spots or similar conditions, shall be preserved to the
maximum extent practicable.
   H.   No remnants of lots shall be permitted, unless a plan identifying a
legitimate future use of the remnant is approved by the Township.
   I.   In the case where a proposed plat is adjacent to a limited access
highway, other major highway or thoroughfare, there shall be no direct
vehicular access from individual lots to such streets and roads. In the
platting of small tracts of land fronting on limited access highways or
thoroughfares where there is no other alternative, a temporary entrance may be
granted. As neighboring land becomes subdivided and more preferable access
arrangements become possible, such temporary access permits shall become void.
   J.   Lots extending over political subdivision boundaries shall be
prohibited.
   K.   The lot size, width, shape and orientation shall be appropriate for the
proposed type of development and shall meet the minimum requirements of the
Zoning District according to the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance.
   L.   The depth of a lot shall not be greater than five (5) times the width.
4.04   Park Land Dedication
   In all new subdivisions, the subdivider shall make a park land dedication
prior to final approval of the subdivision. The following requirements shall
apply to all Park Land dedication:
   A.   Park land dedication shall be considered adequate if at least five (5)
percent of the total land area in the subdivision is dedicated for public park
or recreation purposes.
   B.   The Township shall determine, whether a land dedication or cash in lieu
of land is appropriate. Only buildable land shall qualify for dedication
purposes. The Township shall determine the location of any park land dedication
as a condition of subdivision approval. All land transfers shall be by warranty
deed.
   C.   If a cash contribution is made in lieu of land dedication, the amount
shall be as prescribed in the schedule of fees established by the Township for
actions and activities governed by Lent Township Land Use Regulations. Any
payment in lieu of park land dedication shall be made prior to final
subdivision approval.
   D.   All park land dedications, whether land or cash, shall be used solely
for park, trail and recreation purposes.
4.05   Street Plan
   Streets shall meet the following requirements:
   A.   Proposed streets shall conform to State, County and Township street
plans as have been prepared, adopted and/or filed as prescribed by law.
   B.   Streets shall be logically related to the topography to produce usable
lots and reasonable grades.
   C.   Access shall be given to all lots and portions of the tract in the
subdivision, and to adjacent unsubdivided territory unless the topography
clearly indicates that such connection is not feasible. Reserved strips and
land-locked areas shall not be created.
   D.   Minor streets shall be laid out to discourage their use by through
traffic, and where possible, thoroughfares shall be protected for use by
through traffic by marginal access streets, lots served by an interior street
or other means.
   E.   Half or partial streets will not be permitted, except where essential
to reasonable subdivision of a tract in conformance with the other requirements
and standards of these regulations and, in addition, satisfactory assurance for
dedication of the remaining part of the street can be secured.
   F.   Wherever a tract to be subdivided borders an existing half, or partial
street, the other part of the street shall be platted within such tract.
   G.   Dead-end streets, including cul-de-sacs, shall be prohibited, except as
stubs to permit future street extension into adjoining tracts.
   H.   Private streets and reserve strips shall be prohibited and no public
improvements shall be approved for any private street. All streets shall be
dedicated for public use except where otherwise exempted in this Ordinance.
   I.   The arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for
the appropriate continuation of the existing streets in adjoining areas.
   J.   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, but are suitable for future
subdivision, the arrangements of streets shall make provision for the proper
projection of streets into adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the
boundaries of the new subdivision at appropriate locations.
   K.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or planned right-of-
way of a major thoroughfare or railroad, the proposed new streets which
parallel the right-of-way may be required to be designed with adequate
separation from such thoroughfare or railroad. The service streets shall be
located at a distance suitable for appropriate use of the intervening land for
park purposes or for commercial or industrial purposes if in appropriate
districts. The distances shall be determined considering the requirements of
approach grades.
   L.   Street arrangements shall not cause hardship to owners of adjoining
property in platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
4.06   Street Design
   A.   The minimum right-of-way width for all Township roads shall be sixty-
six (66) feet.
   B.   The minimum roadway width for all Township roads shall be determined by
traffic needs.
   C.   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing street of inadequate
width, sufficient additional width shall be provided to meet the above
standards.
   D.   Additional right-of-way and roadway widths may be required to promote
public safety and convenience when special conditions require it or to provide
parking space in areas of intensive use.
   E.   Extensions of existing roads with lesser right-of-way than prescribed
above may be permitted exceptions in special cases.
4.07   Restriction of Access
   Access of private roads onto State highways, County roads and Township roads
shall not be allowed at intervals of less than 500 feet. The Planning
Commission may recommend and the Town Board may require that the right of
access from any portion or lot of platted land to any property in which the
public has or will have an interest, including, but not limited to public
roads, be dedicated to the Township. Where required, the plat shall contain a
full and accurate description of the dedication of the right of access, and
indicate thereon that said right of access has been dedicated to the Township.
The dedication shall thereafter become a condition of any transfer or
conveyance of a parcel or lot affected by the dedication.
4.09   Street Jogs
   Street jogs with center line offsets of less than five hundred (500) feet
shall be discouraged.
4.10   Deflections
   When connecting street lines deflect from each other at any point by more
than ten (10) degrees, they shall be connected by a curve with a center line
radius of not less than one hundred (100) feet.
4.11   Grades
   Centerline gradients shall not exceed the follows:
   Thoroughfares and collector streets   5% gradient
   Minor streets, marginal access streets   8% gradient
4.12   Vertical Curves
   Different connecting street gradients shall be connected with vertical
curves. Minimum length, in feet, of these curves shall be twenty (20) times the
algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the two adjacent slopes.
4.13   Intersections
   Intersections shall meet the following standards:
   A.   Angle of intersection: The angle formed by the intersection of streets
shall not be less than ninety (90) degrees.
   B.   Intersections of more than four corners shall be prohibited.
   C.   Constructed roadways of street intersections shall be rounded by a
radius of not less than fifteen (15) feet. Corners at the entrances to the
turnaround portions of cul-de-sacs shall be rounded by a radius of not less
than fifteen (15) feet.
4.14   Curb and Gutter on Urban Design Streets
   Curb and gutter may be required as a part of the required street surface
improvement under certain conditions.
4.15   Public Utilities
   A.   When available, extensions of the public water supply system shall be
designed so as to provide public water service to each lot.
   B.   When available, extensions of the public sanitary sewer system shall be
designed to provide public sewer service to each lot.
4.16   Drainage
   A A complete and adequate drainage system shall be required for the
subdivision and may include a storm sewer system or system of open ditches,
culverts, pipes and catch basins, or both systems. The subdivision shall be
designed to utilize existing natural flows and drainage routes. Storm water
ponds and conveyance systems shall be sized to ensure there is no net increase
in the rate of storm water runoff from the development consistent with
stormwater discharge volumes allowed by Chisago County. Where existing storm
water from adjacent areas naturally pass through a subdivision, adequate
provision shall be included in the subdivision to route the storm water through
the subdivision.
4.17   Ditch Crossings
   A.   Special culverts and permits are required for all streets or driveways
which cross a Public ditch.
   B.   Easements.
      1.   Easements shall be provided for utilities where necessary.
      2.   Where underground utilities are being installed, a ten (10) foot
wide front or side or rear yard easement may be required.
      3.   On residential streets a ten (10) foot wide front yard easement may
be required.
      4.   On State and Township Highways additional right-of-way width shall
be dedicated as deemed necessary by Minnesota Department of Transportation and/
or the Lent Township Engineer and no utility easement will be given adjacent to
the highway (whether on front, side or rear yard of any lot), unless approved
by the above-described agencies.
      5.   Easements shall be provided along each side of the center line of
any water course or drainage channel to a sufficient width to provide proper
maintenance and protection and to provide for storm water run-off and
installation and maintenance of storm sewers.
      6.   Utility and drainage easements shall be dedicated on the final plat
for the required use.
4.18   Vacation, relocation or modification of Township Roads
   A.   Where a subdivider seeks to have any existing Township road vacated,
relocated or modified, the subdivider shall be responsible for all costs
associated with such action, and shall be responsible to provide the Township,
in suitable legal form, any and all necessary petitions, resolutions,
signatures and other documents required for the Town Board to take action upon
the subdividers request. The subdivider shall also be responsible for all of
the Township's costs incurred in reviewing and considering the request,
including, but not limited to, legal, surveying, engineering, and consultant
costs. The Town Board shall retain full discretion in deciding to accept or
reject such a request, and shall not be obligated to approve a request
regardless of submission of appropriate documentation and/or payment of any
costs or fees by the subdivider.
   B.   The Town Board and the subdivider shall fully set forth the details of
any agreements and arrangements to vacate, relocate or modify any existing
Township road within any Developer's Agreement required pursuant to this
Ordinance.
4.19   Street Names
   Names of new streets shall conform to the Chisago County Street Naming and
Property Numbering System.
SECTION 5. IMPROVEMENTS
5.01   Required Improvements
   Prior to the approval of a plat by the Town Board, the subdivider shall
agree to install, in conformity with all applicable standards and ordinances,
the following improvements on the site:
   A.   Survey Monuments. All subdivision boundary corners, block and lot
corners, road intersection corners and points of tangency and curvature shall
be marked with survey monuments meeting the minimum requirements of state law.
All U.S., State, County and other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
their precise position unless a relocation is approved by the controlling
agency.
   B.   Grading. Streets shall be graded to secure proper drainage, prevent
erosion and prevent hazardous access to the public right-of-way.
   C.   Storm Water Drainage. A drainage system design shall be required, and
may include a storm sewer system or a system of open ditches, culverts, pipes,
catch basins and ponding areas, or both systems. Such facilities and easements
shall be installed so as to adequately provide for the drainage of surface
waters, as needed in the public interest for the purposes of flood control,
property drainage, prevention of erosion, pedestrian access to water bodies, or
other public purposes.
   D.   Street System. Streets must meet the minimum requirements set forth in
Section 4 of this Ordinance. Streets shall not be accepted until they have been
inspected and approved by the Town Board.
   E.   Trunk Facilities. Where a larger size water supply system, sewage and
wastewater treatment system, storm drainage system or similar facility is
required to serve areas adjacent to, but outside of the subdivision, the larger
facility must be constructed. Additional cost is to be borne by the owners of
benefiting properties, and the assessments shall be determined by the owner of
the facilities.
5.02   Areas served by public sewage treatment and water supply systems
   A.   Sewer Lines. No public sanitary sewer facilities shall be extended
which are not in conformance with the standards and requirements of the owner/
operator of the public sanitary sewer facilities.
   B.   Where adequate public sanitary sewer facilities are available, the
subdivider shall install sanitary sewers and connect such sanitary sewers to
trunk line sewers. Extensions of the public sewer system shall be designed to
provide public sewer service to each lot.
   C.   Water Mains. Where mains from a public water system are available, the
subdivider shall install water mains and connect such mains to the public water
system. Extensions of the public water supply system shall be designed to
provide public water service to each lot.
   D.   Where the subdivision is located within the service area of a public
water supply system, water mains not less than six (6) inches in diameter shall
be constructed throughout the entire subdivision in such a manner as to provide
all lots and tracts with connection to such public system together with shut-
off valves and fire hydrants at intervals in accordance with recommendations of
the Fire Insurance Underwriters Bureau.
   E.   When pipelines and buried transmission services exist within a
subdivision, plat easements, field monuments and signage shall be provided
according to State law or Township requirements.
5.03   Areas not served by public sewage treatment and water supply systems
   A.   Where lots cannot be connected with a public sewage treatment system,
provisions must be made for sanitary sewage facilities, consisting of a central
sewage treatment facility or individual on-site sewage treatment systems for
each lot. This does not mean that the installation of individual sewage
treatment systems shall be at the expense of the subdivider.
   B.   Any subdivision or lot to be served by an on-site water supply and/or
on-site sewage treatment system shall be subject to soil and percolation tests
to determine whether or not the proposed lot size will meet minimum standards
of health and sanitation due to limitations of soils. Such tests shall be made
at the expense of the subdivider after consultation with the Zoning
Administrator. The preliminary plat or a sketch map shall identify the specific
locations where tests were made. All individual on-site sewage treatment
systems shall comply with the standards of the Minnesota Department of Health,
and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   C.   All water supply systems shall be designed and constructed to meet the
regulations and standards of the Minnesota Department of Health.
   D.   Individual wells shall be constructed according to Minnesota Department
of Health standards.
5.04   Street Signs
   All street signs shall be provided and installed by the subdivider.
5.05   Miscellaneous Facilities
   Tree planting, traffic control signs, over-sized utility trunk lines,
pedestrian ways, and other improvements may be required and shall be installed
by the subdivider.
5.06   Payment for Installation of Improvements
   All improvements required by this Ordinance are to be furnished and
installed at the sole expense of the subdivider.
5.07   Development Contract Providing for the Installation of Improvements
   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior to approval
of the plat, the subdivider shall enter into a contract in writing with the
Township requiring the subdivider to furnish and construct said improvements at
his sole cost and in accordance with plans and specifications and usual
contract conditions. This shall include provisions for supervision of details
of construction by the Township and shall grant to the Township authority to
correlate the work to be done under said contract by any subcontractor
authorized to proceed thereunder and with any work being done or contracted by
the any other unit of government in the vicinity. The agreement shall require
the subdivider to make a cash escrow deposit in an amount and form determined
by the Town Board. In general, the surety shall represent no less than one
hundred and twenty-five (125) percent of the cost of the improvements,
including all inspections.
5.08   Special Approval Required for Subdividers Who Have Previously Defaulted
   No subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any other subdivision
without special approval of the Town Board if that subdivider has previously
defaulted on work or commitments.
5.09   Construction Plans and Inspection
   A.   Construction plans for the required improvements shall conform in all
respects with the standards and ordinances of the Township and shall be
prepared at the subdivider's expense by the appropriate professional engineer,
architect, land surveyor or landscape architect who is registered in the State
of Minnesota, and said plans shall contain such certification.
   B.   Such plans together with the quantities of construction items shall be
submitted to the Town Board for approval and for an estimate of the total costs
of the required improvement.
   C.   Upon approval, such plans shall become a part of the required contract.
   D.   Two (2) prints of approval plans shall be furnished to the Town Board
to be filed as a public record.
   E.   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed under
the provisions of this Ordinance shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the appropriate Township inspector.
5.10   Improvements Completed Prior to Approval of the Plat
   Improvements within a subdivision which have been completed prior to
application for approval of the plat or execution of the development contract
may be accepted as the required improvements, subject to the inspection,
approval and acceptance by the Town Board.
5.11   Alternate Installation and Incomplete Improvements
   A.   The Township may elect to install any or all of the required
improvements pursuant to a cash escrow agreement with the developer.
   B.   It is the policy of the Township that no certificates of compliance or
occupancy shall be granted to lots within the subdivision until full and
complete public improvements have been installed and terms of any Developer's
Agreement have been met.
   C.   In the event of default, the Town Board may elect to commence
assessment proceedings, utilize funds of any cash escrow, or otherwise move to
finance and install improvements when the subdivision is developed to the point
of warranting the improvements. Such improvements and procedures may be
required in order to protect the public health, safety, convenience and general
welfare.
5.12   Responsibility for Costs
   The subdivider shall be responsible to pay all reasonable costs incurred by
the Township or its agents in the review and inspection of the subdivision and
enforcement of this Ordinance, including but not limited to administrative,
planning, engineering and legal fees.
SECTION 6. OTHER TYPES OF DEVELOPMENT
6.01   Conservation Subdivision and Planned Unit Development
   A.   Upon receiving a report from the Planning Commission, the Town Board
may accommodate Conservation Subdivisions or Planned Unit Developments, as
defined in the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance, provided that the Town Board
shall find that the proposed development is fully consistent with the purpose
and intent of these regulations. This provision is intended to provide the
necessary flexibility for new land use planning and land development trends and
techniques.
   B.   A detailed plan shall be submitted for any proposed Conservation
Subdivision or Planned Unit Development, showing all proposed structures, uses,
trafficway, sidewalks, landscaping, off-street parking, common open spaces and
other features and facilities prior to approval by the Town Board. Conservation
Subdivisions or Planned Unit Developments shall include preliminary and final
plats and follow the subdivision platting process contained in this Ordinance.
The Planning Commission and Town Board may waive certain dimensional standards
in approving a Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development when
consistent with the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance.
6.02   [Reserved for future use]
SECTION 7. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
7.01   Administering Officer
   This Ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator who shall be appointed by the Town Board and have those
authorities, duties and powers granted pursuant to the this ordinance and the
procedures and requirements of Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations.
7.02   Permits and Certificates
   No building permit, other land use permit, or certificate of compliance or
occupancy shall be issued for the construction or use of any building,
structure or improvement on any land required to be subdivided by this
Ordinance until final subdivision approval has been granted and all required
improvements have been completed and accepted by the Town Board.
7.03   Fees and Administrative Charges
   In order to defray the costs associated with administrative requests and
actions, the Township shall charge fees and administrative costs for
applications and other administrative actions as established within this
Ordinance and Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations
7.04   Violations and Penalties
   A.   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine and/or imprisonment as provided by law.
   B.   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be guilty of an administrative offense and shall be
subject to the administrative penalties established in Chapter Six (6) of the
Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   C.   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   D.   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any of the terms
of this ordinance, the Township may take appropriate action to enforce this
Ordinance, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action to court if necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations.
   E.   Upon motion, the court may award costs, disbursements and reasonable
attorney's fees and witness fees, which costs and fees can be assessed against
the property.
7.05   Variances
   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall have the authority to grant
variances from the requirements of this Ordinance, subject to the procedures,
conditions and findings required by the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance and the
procedures and requirements of Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations.
7.06   Amendments
   The Town Board may amend, supplement or repeal the provisions of this
Ordinance, subject to the procedures, conditions and findings required by the
Lent Township Zoning Ordinance and the procedures and requirements of Chapter
Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
7.07   Repealer
   This Ordinance repeals all other subdivision regulations and ordinances
previously adopted or enacted by Lent Township, and all amendments thereto.
7.08   Validity
   Should any section, subdivision, or provision of this Ordinance be declared
by the courts to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
Ordinance as a whole or any part thereof than the part so declared to be
invalid.
7.09   Date of Effect
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its approval and
publication as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 16th day of    January, 2007, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors. Ordinance No. 2018-02 passed the 15th day of May of 2018.
   Ordinance No. 2019-04 passed the 16th day of July of 2019.
CHAPTER FOUR
SEWAGE AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT ORDINANCE
   An Ordinance relating to, and regulating the construction, design, location,
and use of on-site sewage treatment systems for the purpose of promoting and
protecting the public health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity, and
general welfare of Lent Township.
LENT TOWNSHIP does ordain as follows:
   Chapter 4 Subsurface Sewage and Wastewater Treatment
      1.   Adoption by Reference:
   A.   Subject to the amendments set forth in this chapter, Chisago County
subsurface sewage treatment system ordinance No. 10-1 as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference. A copy of the ordinance shall be kept on file in the
Township Offices.
   B.   The following references in Ordinance No. 10-1 are replaced:
      1.   Replace "Chisago County" with Lent Township".
      2.   Replace "Chisago County Board" with "Lent Township Board".
      3.   Replace "County attorney" with "Township attorney".
   C.   In the ordinance the following definitions shall apply:
      "Chisago County Director of Environmental Services/Zoning" means the
building official of Lent Township and designated agents.
      "Township" means Lent Township.
      "Shoreland/Floodplain Area" means those areas defined by Township
ordinance. (Ord. 2014-01).
   SEVERABILITY Should any section, subdivision, clause or other provision of
this Ordinance be held to be invalid in any court of competent jurisdiction,
such decision shall not affect the validity of the Ordinance as a whole, or of
any part hereof, other than the part held to be invalid.
   FINDINGS Findings for Amending the Lent Township Zoning Code by repealing
and replacing Chapter 4 of the Township Ordinance. In amending the Township of
Lent Township Code relating to sewage and wastewater treatment in Lent
Township, the Town Board of Lent Township finds that the amendment does not
create an excessive demand on existing parks, schools, streets and other public
facilities and utilities which serve or are proposed to serve the area, is
sufficiently compatible so that existing development will not be depreciated in
value and there will be no deterrence to development of vacant land, is in the
opinion of the Township to be reasonably related to the overall needs of the
Township, is consistent with the intent and purposes of the zoning ordinance,
and will not cause traffic hazards or congestions.
   Amendments
   Amendment 04-001 passed and approved August 21, 2007, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors. Amendment 04-002 passed and approved May 20, 2008, by the
Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
   Amendment 04-003 passed and approved December 18, 2018, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
CHAPTER FIVE
BUILDING CODE
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE. THIS ORDINANCE:
PROVIDES FOR THE APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE MINNESOTA
STATE BUILDING CODE BY REGULATING THE ERECTION, CONSTRUCTION, ENLARGEMENT,
ALTERATION, REPAIR, MOVING, REMOVAL, DEMOLITION, CONVERSION, OCCUPANCY,
EQUIPMENT, USE, HEIGHT, AREA, AND MAINTENANCE OF ALL BUILDINGS AND/OR
STRUCTURES IN THIS MUNICIPALITY; PROVIDES FOR THE ISSUANCE OF PERMITS AND
COLLECTION OF FEES THEREOF; PROVIDES PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION THEREOF; REPEALS
ALL ORDINANCES AND PARTS OF ORDINANCES THAT CONFLICT THEREWITH. THIS ORDINANCE
SHALL PERPETUALLY INCLUDE THE MOST CURRENT EDITION OF THE MINNESOTA STATE
BUILDING CODE WITH THE EXCEPTION OF THE OPTIONAL APPENDIX CHAPTERS. OPTIONAL
APPENDIX CHAPTERS SHALL NOT APPLY UNLESS SPECIFICALLY ADOPTED.
LENT TOWNSHIP does ordain as follows:
SECTION 1. APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
1.01.   Application.
   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall be in
accordance with Minnesota Rule Chapter 1300.
1.02.   Administrating Officer
   This Ordinance shall be administered by the Lent Township Building Inspector
who shall be designated by the Town Board and have those authorities, duties
and powers granted pursuant to the this Ordinance, the procedures and
requirements of Chapter Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations, and
Minnesota Statutes, Section 16B.65. The Township Building Inspector shall be a
Minnesota Certified Building Official pursuant to the requirements of Minnesota
Statutes, Section 16B.65.
1.03.   Enforcement.
   This Ordinance shall be enforced by the Lent Township Building Inspector who
shall have those authorities, duties and powers granted pursuant to this
Ordinance, the procedures and requirements of Chapter Six (6) of the Lent
Township Land Use Regulations, and Minnesota Statutes, Section 16B.65.
SECTION 2. ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE
   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, 16B.59 to 16B.75, including all of the referenced amendments, rules
and regulations, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the
optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this ordnance. The Minnesota
State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this ordinance and shall have the
same force and effect as if fully set out herein.
SECTION 3. PERMITS AND FEES
   A.   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in Minnesota Statutes, 16B.62, subdivision 1 and Chapter Six (6) of
the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   B.   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the Town Board pursuant to Chapter
Six (6) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations. In addition, a surcharge fee
shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in
accordance with Minnesota Statutes, Section 16B.70.
   C.   Expiration of Permits.
      1.   Every building permit issued by the building inspector shall expire
by limitation and become null and void if the building or work authorized by
such permit is not commenced within one hundred and eighty (180) days from the
date such permit was issued, or if the building or work authorized by such
permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a
period of one hundred and eighty (180) days. Before such work can be
recommenced, a new building permit shall be first obtained to do so, and the
fee therefore shall be one- half (½) of the amount required for a new permit
for such work, excluding any plan review fee, provided no changes have been
made in the original plans and specifications for such work.
      2.   The building inspector may grant, in writing, one or more extensions
of time, for periods not more than one hundred and eighty (180) days each. Such
extensions shall be requested in writing and shall demonstrate sufficient cause
or justification for granting the extension.
SECTION 4. SPECIAL PROVISIONS
4.01. Roof Repair and Replacement.
   In order to obtain final approval of a roof repair or replacement, in
addition to conformance with this Ordinance, photographs of ice and water
barrier installation must be submitted to the Township Building Inspector prior
to the final inspection.
SECTION 5. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
   A.   Any firm, person, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be subject to a fine and/or imprisonment as provided by law.
   B.   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this Ordinance shall be guilty of an administrative offense and shall be
subject to the administrative penalties established in Chapter Six (6) of the
Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   C.   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   D.   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any of the terms
of this ordinance, the Township may take appropriate action to enforce this
Ordinance, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action to court if necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations.
   E.   Upon motion, the court may award costs, disbursements and reasonable
attorney's fees and witness fees, which costs and fees can be assessed against
the property.
SECTION 6. DATE OF EFFECT
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its approval and
publication as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 16th day of January, 2007, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
   Gene Olson
   Gene Olson, Chairman
ATTEST:
   Roxanne Kahler
   Roxanne Kahler, Township Clerk
   Published in the Chisago County Press January 25, 2007.
   Published in the East Central Minnesota Post Review January 24, 2007.
   Amendments
   Amendment 05-001 passed and approved May 20, 2008, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
CHAPTER SIX
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND FEES
   An Ordinance relating to, and regulating administrative standards and
practices, provisions for appropriate fees, and enforcement procedures for the
administration and implementation of land use regulations within Lent Township
for the purpose of promoting and protecting the public health, safety, order,
convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of Lent Township.
LENT TOWNSHIP does ordain as follows:
SECTION 1. TITLE
   This Ordinance shall be known, cited and referred to as the LENT TOWNSHIP
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT FEES ORDINANCE except as referred to herein, where
it shall be known as "this Ordinance." The provisions of this Ordinance shall
apply to all lands, properties, buildings and other structures or use of land
within Lent Township, Chisago County, Minnesota.
SECTION 2. PURPOSE AND INTENT
   The purpose of this Ordinance shall be to establish uniform standards and
procedures for the administration and enforcement of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations, and to establish appropriate fees necessary to implement the
provisions of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations. It is the specific intent
of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations to effectuate the Lent Township
Comprehensive Plan in order for the citizens of the Township to enjoy a safe
and healthy environment that is sustained by a rational integration of diverse
land uses, orderly growth and the preservation and protection of unique
cultural and natural resources.
SECTION 3. ADMINISTRATION
3.01   Administrating Officers
   A.   Town Board.
   The Town Board shall retain and exercise all duties and responsibilities set
forth within the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations,
and shall exercise all of the authorities and powers granted pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes Section 462.537 and any other applicable Minnesota Statutes
and Rules.
   B.   Planning Commission.
   The Planning Commission shall carry out all duties and responsibilities set
forth within the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations,
and shall exercise all of the authorities and powers granted pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes Section 462.537 as follows:
      1.   The Planning Commission shall adopt rules for the transaction of its
business and shall keep public record of its transactions, findings, and
recommendations.
      2.   The Planning Commission shall cooperate with the Zoning
Administrator and other employees of the Township in preparing and recommending
to the Board for adoption, comprehensive plans and recommendations for plan
execution in the form of official controls and other measures, and amendments
thereto.
      3.   The Planning Commission shall provide assistance to the Town Board
and Zoning Administrator in the administration of this ordinance and shall
review, hold public hearings, and make recommendations to the Town Board on all
applications for zoning amendments and conditional use permits using the
criteria in the Township Ordinance.
   C.   Board of Adjustment and Appeals.
   The Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall carry out all duties and
responsibilities set forth within the various Chapters of the Lent Township,
and shall exercise all of the authorities and powers granted pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes Section 462.537 as follows:
      1.   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is an
error in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by an
administrative official in the enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance.
      2.   To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of this
Ordinance in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue
hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual property under
consideration.
   D.   Zoning Administrator.
   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Town Board and shall
carry out all duties and responsibilities set forth within the various Chapters
of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations. The duties and responsibilities of
the Zoning Administrator shall be delegated and divided as follows:
      1.   For the purposes of receiving applications, issuing and publishing
administrative documents such as permits, variances, appeals and notices,
receiving fees, scheduling inspections, distributing informational materials,
and other duties as assigned by the Town Board, the Zoning Administrator shall
be the Township Clerk or another designated employee of the Township.
      2.   For the purposes of evaluating applications, reviewing plans and
specifications, rendering determinations or interpretations for any of the
provisions and requirements of the Lent Township Land Use regulations,
enforcing, investigating, and reviewing all violations of the Lent Township
Land Use Regulations, and all other duties and responsibilities established
within the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use regulations, one of
the following individuals:
      a.   Township Planning Consultant
      b.   The Chair or Vice Chair of the Planning Commission; or
      c.   The Township Building Inspector
      3 . For the purposes of carrying out the duties and responsibilities of
the Zoning Administrator, those persons designated pursuant to this Section
shall be available as follows:
      a.   The Township Clerk, acting as the Zoning Administrator, shall be
available at all times that the Township Offices are normally open for
business;
      b.   Those individuals designated as the Zoning Administrator pursuant to
Section 3.01D.
   E.   Township Inspectors.
   Township Inspectors shall be designated and hired by the Town Board and
shall carry out all duties and responsibilities set forth within the various
Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations. The Township Building
Inspector shall be a Minnesota Certified Building Official pursuant to the
requirements of Minnesota Statutes, Section 16B.65. Township inspectors shall
only be available for inspections as scheduled with the Township Clerk, serving
as the Zoning Administrator.
3.02   Variances from Land Use Regulations
   All requests for a variance from any requirements or provisions of Chapters
Two (2) through Four (4) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations shall be
conducted according to the procedures established in Section 8.06 of the Lent
Township Zoning Ordinance, Chapter Two (2), Lent Township Land Use Regulations,
and any additional requirements or procedures set forth in the specific Chapter
under which the variance is being requested.
3.03   Appeals from Land Use Regulations
   All appeals from administrative actions or decisions rendered pursuant to
the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations shall be
conducted according to the procedures established in Section 8.07 of the Lent
Township Zoning Ordinance, Chapter Two (2), Lent Township Land Use Regulations,
and any additional requirements or procedures set forth in the specific Chapter
from which an appeal is being requested.
3.04   Amendments to Land Use Regulations
   All requests to amend any requirements or provisions of the various Chapters
of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations shall be conducted according to the
procedures established in Section 8.08 of the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance,
Chapter Two (2), Lent Township Land Use Regulations, and any additional
requirements or procedures set forth in the specific Chapter for which an
amendment is being requested.
SECTION 4. FEES
4.01   Fees and Administrative Charges
   A.   To defray the costs associated with administrative requests and
actions, the Township shall charge fees and administrative costs for
applications and other administrative actions as established within the various
Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations. Such fees and
administrative charges shall be established in Chapter Ten (10), Appendix A of
the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   B.   In order to defray the additional cost of processing applications for
amendments, conditional uses, variances, or appeals, all applicants shall pay
the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent exclusively in producing
materials for the applicant's request, and all materials for said request.
      1.   "Materials" shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings, etc., and all printing or reproduction of same.
      2.   "Staff and/or Consulting Time" shall include any time spent in
either researching for or actual production of materials.
      3.   The hourly rate for "staff and/or consulting time" shall be
established and made available to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator
prior to production of any materials and the applicant shall be given a
reasonable estimate of project time and/or materials costs.
   C.   All fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with the
Zoning Administrator and are not refundable unless an application is withdrawn
prior to referral to the Planning Commission. The refund will be less any
expenses incurred prior to withdrawal. A deposit to cover staff or consulting
time and special materials shall be established by the Town Board of
Supervisors as provided herein, and shall be payable at the time the base fee
is paid.
   D.   Surety.
      1.   The Town Board shall have the authority to require a letter of
credit, cash or other security when it is deemed necessary and appropriate for
the administration and enforcement of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   E.   Review costs.
      1.   Initial Escrow Funds. In addition to the application fees, the
applicant shall also deposit initial escrow funds with the Township as
estimated and determined by the Town Board or other Authorized Agent. The
initial escrow funds shall be used to pay any and all out-of-pocket expenses
the Township incurs in employing Professional Consultants who review and
process the applicant's petition or petitions.
      2.   Replenishment of Depleted Escrow Funds. The applicant must deposit
additional escrow funds as directed by the City to replenish the depletion of
the initial escrow funds prior to the Township's final action on the
applicant's petition or petitions, or prior to final inspection and issuance of
certificates of occupancy, unless otherwise determined by the Town Board or
other Authorized Agent.
      3.   Applicant Responsibility for Outstanding Out-of-Pocket Expenses. The
applicant must pay any and all outstanding out-of- pocket expenses in excess of
deposits of the initial escrow funds and the additional escrow funds within
thirty (30) days of the applicant's receipt of billings from the Township. The
applicant is responsible for all out-of-pocket expenses the City incurs. The
Township will return to the applicant any amount of initial escrow funds /
additional escrow funds remaining after the Township's final billing of its
out-of-pocket expenses.
      4.   Town Board Authority and Discretion to Stop Professional Consultant
Work. The Town Board shall have the authority and discretion to order the
Township's Professional Consultants to not begin or to stop work on any
petition either before or after depletion of the initial escrow funds, or
before or after the depletion of additional escrow funds in order to avoid or
minimize the Township's accrual of unpaid out-of-pocket expenses.
4.02   Fee Schedule
A schedule of fees shall be established in Chapter Ten (10), Appendix A of the
Lent Township Land Use Regulations. Copies of the schedule of fees shall be
available at the Township Offices located in the Township Hall and on the
official Lent Township Website at: http://www.lenttownship.com
SECTION 5. ENFORCEMENT
5.01   Enforcement Officer and Citation Powers
   A.   Those individuals designated as the Zoning Administrator pursuant to
this Ordinance shall be fully empowered to investigate any violations of the
requirements or provisions of the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land
Use Regulations and recommend appropriate enforcement action to the Town Board.
   B.   Upon approval of the Town Board, the Chair of the Town Board shall
authorize, in writing, the appropriate enforcement action.
   C.   When approved by the Town Board and authorized by the Chair of the Town
Board, the Chisago County Sheriff's Department shall be requested to serve all
criminal citations upon any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the
provisions of the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   D.   When approved by the Town Board and authorized by the Chairman of the
Town Board, any of the individuals designated as the Zoning Administrator
pursuant to this Ordinance, shall be empowered to serve all administrative
citations upon any firm, person, organization or entity who violates any of the
provisions of the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
   E.   Violation Notice Procedures
      1.   Courtesy Notice - The Township shall send the property owner an
informational notice regarding Township ordinances and current violations.
      2.   First Notice of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the courtesy notice, the Township shall send the first notice of
violation.
      3.   Second Notice of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the first notice, the Township shall send the second notice of
violation.
      4.   Third Notice of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the second notice, the Township shall send the third notice of
violation.
      5.   Fourth Notice of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the third notice, the Township shall send the fourth notice of
violation as well as a civil citation in accordance with the Townships annual
fee schedule.
      6.   Fifth Notice of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the fourth notice, the Township shall send the fifth notice of
violation as well as a civil citation in accordance with the Townships annual
fee schedule.
      7.   Sixth Notice of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the fifth notice, the Township shall send the sixth notice of
violation as well as a civil citation in accordance with the Townships annual
fee schedule.
      8.   Additional Notices of Violation - If the violation remains 30 days
following the sixth notice, the Township shall send a monthly notice of
violation as well as a civil citation in accordance with the Townships annual
fee schedule until the violation is cleared.
      9.   Repeat Violation - If a property is found to have violated, cleared,
and then again violated the same ordinance within a 12 month period then the
Township shall begin its enforcement actions with the Fourth Notice of
Violation and civil citation in accordance with the Township annual fee
schedule.
      10.   The Township reserves the right to pursue any criminal penalty
under Section
5.02 of this Chapter upon any firm, person, organization or entity who violates
any of the provisions of the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations.
5.02   Criminal Penalty
   A.   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations, shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine and/or
imprisonment as provided by law.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   C.   All criminal citations issued pursuant to this Section shall be
referred to the County Attorney for prosecution as provided under Minnesota
Statutes Chapter 609.
   D.   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any of the
provisions of the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations,
the Township may take appropriate action to enforce this Ordinance, including
application for injunctive relief, action to compel performance or other
appropriate action to court if necessary to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
such violations or threatened violations.
   E.   Upon motion, the court may award costs, disbursements and reasonable
attorney's fees and witness fees, which costs and fees can be assessed against
the property.
5.03   Administrative Penalty
   A.   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations, shall be guilty
of an administrative offense and shall be subject to the administrative
penalties established in this Section.
   B.   Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
separate offense.
   C.   Order to correct; administrative citation
      1.   Upon the reasonable belief that an administrative offense has
occurred, the Zoning Administrator shall serve on the violator an order to
correct the violation.
      2.   If compliance is not achieved by virtue of an order to correct, the
Zoning Administrator is authorized to issue an administrative citation pursuant
to this Section.
      3.   An administrative citation shall be presented in person or by mail
to the person responsible for the violation.
      4.   The citation shall state the date, time, and nature of the offense,
the name of the official issuing the citation, the amount of the scheduled
civil fine, and the manner for paying the fine or appealing the citation by
requesting a hearing before the Board of Adjustment.
   D.   Civil Fine
      1.   An administrative offense shall be subject to a civil fine. The
amount of a civil fine may not exceed the amount of the maximum fine allowed if
each violation had been prosecuted as a misdemeanor.
      2.   The Township Board of Supervisors shall adopt by resolution a
schedule of civil fines for administrative offenses for which a citation has
been issued. The Zoning Administrator shall adhere to this schedule of fines in
issuing administrative citations pursuant to this Section.
      3.   The person responsible for the violation shall either pay the
scheduled civil fine or request a hearing before the Board of Adjustment within
twenty-five (25) days after issuance of the administrative citation. The Board
of Adjustment has sole authority to uphold the full enforcement of the citation
and civil fine, or dismiss the citation and/or waive the scheduled civil fine.
   E.   Fee for late payment of civil fine; recovery of costs
      1.   A late payment fee of ten percent (10%) of the civil fine amount
shall be imposed if the person responsible for the violation fails to pay the
civil fine within twenty-five (25) days after issuance of the administrative
citation or fails to request a hearing pursuant to this Section.
      2.   If a civil fine is not paid within the time specified and no request
for a hearing is received, the nonpayment of the civil fine shall constitute a
personal obligation of the violator that may be collected by any appropriate
legal means. If the action warranting the fine requires corrective measures to
bring the action into full compliance with Lent Township Land Use Regulations,
the Township may undertake such corrective measures on its own accord and
assess the applicable property for the full cost of carrying out such measures.
   F.   Nothing in this Section shall be construed to limit the Township's
other available legal remedies for any violation of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations, including the prosecution of criminal, civil, or injunctive
actions against the offender.
5.03 Prosecution of Violations
   All criminal and administrative citations issued pursuant to the provisions
of the various Chapters of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations and Sections
5.01 and
5.02 of this Ordinance shall be referred to the Township or County Attorney for
prosecution as provided under Minnesota Statutes Chapter 609.
SECTION 6. DATE OF EFFECT
10.01   Date of Effect.
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its approval and
publication as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 16th day of January, 2007, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
SECTION 7. SPECIAL EVENTS
7.01   Purpose
   The following sections govern the time, place and manner of holding certain
special events on Township streets, on Township property and on private
property when an event's impact upon the health, fire, law enforcement,
transportation or other services exceeds those regularly provided to that
property. This section is enacted in order to promote the health, safety and
welfare of the residents and visitors of the Township by ensuring that special
events do not create disturbances, become nuisances, menace or threaten life,
health and property, disrupt traffic or threaten or damage private or public
property. It is not the intent of the Town Board by enacting this article to
regulate in any manner the content of speech or infringe upon the right to
assemble, except for regulating the time, place and manner of speech and
assembly and this article should not be interpreted or construed otherwise.
7.02   Definitions
   For the purposes of this article, the terms defined have the following
meanings given to them:
   Applicant - Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, society
or group seeking and/or receiving a special events license from the Township.
   License - A license issued by the Township to allow a special event. Outdoor
Activity - conducted outside of a permanent structure or building.
   Person - Any person, association, partnership, firm, business trust,
corporation or company.
   Special event - Any temporary, outdoor privately sponsored event open to the
general public and held on public or privately owned property including, but
not limited to, a concert, parade, fair, show, festival, carnival, rally,
party, run, street dance, bike-athon, race, walk, athletic event, block party
or other attended outdoor entertainment or celebration that is to be held in
whole or in part upon publicly owned property or public right-of-way, or if
held wholly upon private property, will nevertheless affect or impact the
ordinary and normal use by the general public of public property or public
rights-of-way within the vicinity of the event.
7.03   License Required
   Any person or organization desiring to conduct or sponsor a special event in
the Township shall first obtain a special event license from the Township. A
special event license is not required for the following types of events:
      1.   Any permanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field, arena,
theatre, auditorium, or fairs conducted pursuant to Minn. Stats. ch. 38.
      2.   Special events or activities permitted or licensed by other state
laws or regulations of the Township of Lent, including publicly sponsored
activities in the local park system.
      3.   Family gatherings, including family reunions, graduation parties,
baptisms, confirmations, weddings, funerals, under 100 people.
      4.   Garage sales.
      5.   Nonrecurring auctions.
      6.   Events held in or on the grounds of any school, place of worship,
athletic field, arena, auditorium or other place of assembly used for regularly
established assembly purposes.
      7.   An annual reoccurring event that has no change, and at staff
discretion.
7.03   Permit Application
   Any person or organization desiring to sponsor a special event that is not
exempted by this article must apply to the Township for a special event permit.
This application must be filed not less than 45 days in advance of the date in
which the event is to occur, or at staff discretion. Special event permit
applications must include the following information:
      1.   Type and description of the special event and a list of all
activities to take place at the special event.
      2.   The names and addresses of the person(s) responsible for conducting
the event.
      3.   Proposed date(s) of the special event, together with the beginning
and ending times for each date.
      4.   Proposed location of the special event, including a map of the
proposed area to be used which shows any barricades, street route plans or
perimeter/security fencing.
      5.   Estimated number of special event staff, participants and
spectators.
      6.   Whether the premises are owned by the applicant or, if not owned,
the written permission from the owner or agent having authority to permit the
use of such premises.
      7.   Any crowd control, solid waste disposal, parking and traffic control
and insurance information required in section 50-304.
      8.   Whether food or alcohol is to be served or sold at the special
event. The licensee is responsible for obtaining all necessary food licenses
from the state and county.
      9.   Signature of the applicant.
      10.   If the event is an event planned within an area in which a street
is to be closed, the applicant must collect and submit with the application a
list of signatures from all properties whose vehicular access to their
properties will be affected consenting to the street closure.
      11.   Certificate of liability insurance covering the dates of the
special event.
      12.   Upon submission of an application for a special event license,
Township staff will review the request and advise the applicant of the need for
additional information, if any.
7.04   Requirements For Issuance of License
   A.   The following standards shall apply to all special events:
      1.   Maximum number of people. The licensee shall not sell tickets nor
permit attendance at the license location of more than the maximum number of
people stated in the special event license.
      2.   Sound equipment. Sound producing equipment, including, but not
limited to, public address systems, radios, phonographs, musical instruments
and other recording devices, shall not be operated on the premises of the
special event so as to be unreasonably loud or be a nuisance or disturbance to
the peace and tranquility of the citizens of Lent Township.
      3.   Sanitary facilities. In accordance with Minnesota State Board of
Health regulations and standards local specifications, adequate sanitary
facilities must be provided which are sufficient to accommodate the projected
number of persons expected to attend the event.
      4.   Security. The licensee shall employ, at his own expense, such
security personnel as are necessary and sufficient to provide for the adequate
security and protection of the maximum number of persons in attendance at the
special event and for the preservation of order and protection of property in
and around the event site. Security personnel shall generally be off-duty
licensed police officers. No license shall be issued unless the County Sheriff
is satisfied that such necessary and sufficient security personnel will be
provided by the licensee for the duration of the event. If deemed appropriate,
the County Sheriff may recommend that the Town Board authorize alternate
security personnel other than off-duty officers.
      5.   Fire protection. The licensee shall, at his own expense, take
adequate steps to ensure fire protection as determined by the County Sheriff.
      6.   Duration of special event. The licensee shall operate the special
event only on those days and during the hours specified on the license, which
shall not be for more than seven days.
      7.   Cleanup plan. The licensee is responsible for cleanup. Any
extraordinary clean up required by the Township will be charged to the
licensee. Any Township service that requires overtime will be at the expense of
the applicant.
      8.   Waiver. The Town Board may grant a waiver from the requirements of
this article in any particular case where the applicant can show that strict
compliance with this article would cause exceptional and undue hardship by
reason of the nature of the special event or by reason of the fact that the
circumstances make the requirement of this article unnecessary.
   Such waiver must be granted without detriment to the public health, safety
or welfare and without impairing the intent and purpose of these regulations.
      9.   Miscellaneous. Prior to issuance of a license, the Town Board may
impose any other conditions reasonably calculated to protect the health, safety
and welfare of persons, attendant or of the citizens of Lent Township.
   B.   The following standards shall apply to special events with an expected
attendance of over 100 persons or as the Town Board recommends:
      1.   Crowd control. A fence or barrier shall be constructed that
completely encloses the proposed location and shall be of sufficient height and
strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible number from
entering the event. The fence or barrier shall have sufficient entrances and
exits to allow easy movement into and out of the special event and provide
traffic control onto established public road systems. This requirement may be
waived if the Town Board determines that a fence will not be necessary for
crowd control.
      2.   Solid waste disposal. A sanitary method of disposing of solid waste,
in compliance with state and local laws and regulations, shall be provided and
shall be sufficient to dispose of the solid waste production anticipated for
the maximum number of people allowed by the license. Plans shall include a
provision for holding and collecting all such waste at least once each day,
sufficient trash containers and sufficient personnel to perform such tasks.
      3.   Parking and traffic control. A parking and traffic control plan for
the number of persons projected to attend the event must be submitted. Such
plan must be sufficient to ensure a free flow of traffic and make available
rapid access for emergency vehicles. Further, the applicant shall provide
adequate off-street parking facilities on the site or within 1,500 feet thereof
to accommodate the projected number of persons expected to attend the event.
      4.   Medical facilities. Medical or first aid facilities shall be
provided which are sufficient to accommodate the projected number of persons to
attend the event.
      5.   Lighting. The licensee shall provide electrical illumination of all
occupied areas sufficient to ensure the safety and comfort of all attendees.
The license's lighting plan shall be approved by Township staff.
      6.   Potable water supply. Potable water, meeting all federal and state
requirement for sanitary quality and sufficient to provide drinking water for
the maximum number of people allowed at the special event, shall be provided.
7.05   Permit Review
   The Town Board, at any regular or special meeting, may grant a license under
this article upon due and proper application made therefore if, in the judgment
of the Town Board, the application meets the standards of this article.
   The Town Board, after recommendation from the Planning and Zoning
Commission, may deny a license if, in the judgment of the Town Board, the
granting of a license would adversely affect the safety, health and welfare of
the citizens of Lent Township. The applicant shall be notified of such denial
and may appear before the Town Board to appeal such denial.
   Criteria for denial of an application for a special event license may
include, but not be limited to:
      1.   The information contained in the application or supplemental
information requested from the applicant is false or nonexistent in any
material detail.
      2.   The applicant fails to supplement the application after having been
notified by the Township of additional information or documents needed.
      3.   The applicant fails to agree to abide or comply with all of the
conditions and terms of the special event permit.
      4.   The time, route, hours, location or size of the special event will
unnecessarily disrupt the movement of other traffic within the area of the
special event.
      5.   The special event is of the size or nature that requires the
diversion of too many law enforcement officers to properly police the event,
site and contiguous areas that allowing the special event would unreasonably
deny law enforcement protection to the remainder of the Township and its
residents.
      6.   Another special event license has already been approved to hold
another special event at the same time and place requested by the applicant or
so close in time and place as to cause undue hardship, undue traffic
congestion, or the Township is unable to meet the needs to provide for law
enforcement and other Township or County services for both special events.
      7.   The location of the special event would cause undue hardship for
adjacent businesses or residents.
      8.   The location of the special event will substantially interfere with
any construction or maintenance work scheduled to take place upon or along
public property or right-of-way.
      9.   The special event would endanger public safety or health.
      10.   The special event would seriously inconvenience the general
public's use of public property, services or facilities.
      11.   The applicant fails to comply with the liability insurance
requirements or the applicant's insurance lapses or is canceled.
      12.   The special event would create or constitute a public nuisance.
      13.   The special event would be likely to cause significant damage to
public property or facilities.
7.06   Permit Conditions
   The Town Board may condition the issuance of a license by imposing
reasonable conditions concerning the time, place and manner of the special
event, and such conditions are necessary to protect the safety of persons and
property, and the control of traffic; provided that such conditions shall not
unreasonably restrict the right of free speech. Such conditions may include,
but are not limited to:
      1.   Alteration of the date(s), time(s), route or location of the special
event proposed.
      2.   Elimination of an activity at the special event which cannot be
mitigated to a point as to ensure public safety and welfare, or which causes
undue liability to the Township.
      3.   Requirements concerning the area of assembly and disbanding of a
parade or other events occurring along a route.
      4.   Requirements concerning the accommodation of pedestrian or vehicular
traffic, including restricting the event to only a portion of the street right-
of-way.
      5.   Requirement for the use of traffic cones or barricades, and shall be
in accordance with the current Minnesota Manual on Uniform Traffic Control
Devices (MMUTCD) and any other requirements of the roadway authority that has
jurisdiction over the affected street.
      6.   Requirements for the use of Township or County personnel and
equipment.
      7.   Requirements for the provision of first aid or sanitary facilities
at the special event.
      8.   Compliance with animal protection ordinances and laws.
      9.   Requirements for the use of garbage containers and cleanup and
restoration of any public property.
      10.   Restriction on the use of amplified sound and compliance with noise
ordinances, regulations and laws.
      11.   Requirements to provide notice of the special event to surrounding
property owners.
      12.   Restrictions on the sale or consumption of food and alcohol.
7.07   Permit Issuance
   The Township clerk shall issue the special events permit once the
application has been approved by the Town Board and the applicant has agreed to
comply with the terms and conditions of the permit as well as the requirements
of this article.
7.08   Indemnification Agreement And Liability Insurance Requirements
   All applicants must agree to indemnify and hold harmless the Township of
Lent and its employees against any and all losses, claims, damages or liability
to which the organization, participants, or the Township of Lent may become
subject in connection with the conduct of any activity on the premises by the
authorized organization. Organizations must agree to reimburse the Township of
Lent and its agents, attorneys, and employees in connection with defending any
actions relating thereto. All users of the facilities that are legally
established within the State of Minnesota are required to furnish a yearly
certificate confirming liability insurance, with the Township named as an
additional insured, in the minimum amounts of
$1,000,000.00 for bodily injury and property damage. The Township reserves the
right to require adjusted insurance amounts and other applicants may be
required to supply liability insurance as the Township deems necessary.
7.09   Insurance Requirements
   A.   Liability insurance required. The applicant or sponsor of the special
event must possess or obtain liability insurance to protect against loss from
liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injury or property
damage arising from the special event. A certificate of insurance must be filed
with the Township prior to issuance of the special events permit. The
certificate of insurance must name the Township, its officials, employees and
agents as additional insured. Insurance coverage must be maintained for the
duration of the special event.
   B.   Minimum limits. Insurance coverage must be a commercial general
liability policy. The minimum limits must be at least
$1,000,000.00. If alcoholic beverages are to be sold or distributed at the
special event, the policy must also include an endorsement for liquor
liability. The Town Board may require additional endorsements depending upon
the type of special event and proposed activities.
   C.   Waiver or reduction of required limits. The Town Board may waive or
reduce the insurance requirements of this section under the following
circumstances:
      1.   The applicant or officer of the sponsoring organization signs a
verified statement with documentation from a recognized insurance company that
the insurance coverage requirements required by this section is impossible to
obtain; or
      2.   The Town Board determines that the insurance requirements are in
excess of the reasonable risk presented by the proposed special event.
7.10 Revocation of Permit
   Any permit issued pursuant to this section may be summarily revoked by the
Township's law enforcement officer at any time when, by reason of disaster,
public calamity, riot or other emergency, the law enforcement officer
determines that the safety of the public or property requires such revocation.
The Township clerk may also summarily revoke any special event permit issued
pursuant to this article if he or she finds that the permit has been issued
based upon false information or when the permittee exceeds the scope of the
permit. Notice of such action revoking the permit shall be delivered in writing
to the permittee by personal service or certified mail at the address specified
by the permittee in its application.
7.11 Violations
      1.   Unlawful to sponsor a special event without a permit. It is unlawful
for any person to sponsor or conduct a special event requiring a permit
pursuant to this article unless a valid special event permit has been issued
for the event.
      2.   Unlawful to exceed the scope of the permit. The special event permit
authorizes the special event permittee or sponsor to conduct only such a
special event as is described in the permit, and in accordance with the terms
and conditions of the permit. It is unlawful for the permittee or sponsor to
willfully violate the terms and conditions of the permit.
      3.   Misdemeanor. Any person convicted of violating this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine or imprisonment as
specified by state statues. Each day in which a violation continues to occur
shall constitute a separate offense. Violation of any provision of this article
shall also be grounds for revocation of the special event permit.
   Amendment 06-001 passed and approved May 20, 2008, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors. Amendment Ordinance 2018-02 passed and approved May 15,
2018, by the Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
   Amendment Ordinance 2021-03 passed and approved April 20, 2021, by the Lent
Township Board of Supervisors.
LENT TOWNSHIP CHISAGO COUNTY, MINNESOTA
ORDINANCE 2014-01
   An Ordinance Amending the Lent Township Code of Ordinances Establishing
Chapter Seven Floodplain Management
   The Town Board of the Township of Lent, Chisago County, Minnesota, does
hereby ordain as follows:
ESTABLISHMENT OF CHAPTER 7 OF THE LENT TOWNSHIP LAND USE REGULATIONS,
FLOODPLAIN MANAGMENT.
   That the Lent Township Land Use Regulations are amended, and is hereby ADDED
as follows: "Chapter Seven: Floodplain Management"
SECTION 1. STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION
   The legislature of the State of Minnesota in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 103
and Chapter 394 has delegated the responsibility to local government units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. This Ordinance is being
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations Parts 59 - 78, as
amended, so as to
maintain Lent Township's eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
SECTION 2. PURPOSE AND INTENT
   The development of the flood hazard areas within Lent Township, Chisago
County, could result in the potential loss of life and property, create health
and safety hazards, and lead to extraordinary public expenditures for flood
protection and relief. Since development of these areas is not essential to the
orderly growth of Lent Township, and since these lands are suitable for open
space uses that do not require structures, fill, obstructions, or most other
forms of development as defined in Section 7 of this Ordinance, the Lent
Township Board of Supervisors does ordinance as follows:
SECTION 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF FLOOD DISTRICT MAP
   The Official Flood District Map, together with all materials attached
thereto, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
Ordinance. The attached materials shall include the Flood Insurance Study,
Chisago County, Minnesota and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels therein
numbered 27025C0250D, 27025C0255D, 27025C0260D and 27025C0275D all documents
being dated April 17, 2012 and prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. The Official Flood District Map shall be on file in the Lent Town Hall
and at the Office of the Chisago County Auditor. The official Flood District
Map shall be considered a separate overlay map and as such, not part of the
Official Zoning Map contained in the Lent Township Zoning Ordinance.
SECTION 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT OVERLAY
   The Floodplain District jurisdiction of this Ordinance shall pertain to all
lands within the 100-year flood areas designated as Zone A as established on
the Official Flood District Map, as defined in Section 3 of this Ordinance. As
defined below, portions of the Flood Plain District are within the floodway and
flood fringe. This ordinance shall be consistent with, and as restrictive as,
the Chisago County Floodplain Ordinance.
SECTION 5. DEFINITIONS
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this Ordinance
shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common
usage and so as to give this Ordinance its most reasonable application.
   Basement: means any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.
   Development: any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate
including, but not limited to, buildings, manufactured homes, and other
structures, recreational vehicles, mining, dredging filling, grading, paving,
excavation, drilling operations, or storage of materials or equipment.
   Flood: a temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   Flood Fringe: the portion of the floodplain located outside of the floodway.
The flood fringe shall comprise those Zone AE areas shown on the Flood
Insurance Rate Map Panels adopted in Section 3.0 of this ordinance that are
located outside of the delineated floodway. The flood fringe boundary and the
regulatory flood protection elevation for Zone A and Zone AE areas without a
delineated floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels adopted in Section 3
of this Ordinance shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by Lent Township
in accordance with the criteria spelled out in Minnesota Regulations, Parts
6120.5000-6120.6200 and 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 65.
   When determining the flood fringe boundaries for lakes, wetlands, and other
basins, Lent Township can determine the area below the 100-year flood elevation
and the area above the ordinary high water level as defined in Minnesota
Statutes, Section 103G.005, subdivision 14 to be flood fringe.
   Floodplain: the areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   Floodway: the bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge. The floodway shall include those
areas delineated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels adopted in
Section 3 of this Ordinance. Floodway boundaries and the regulatory flood
protection elevation for Zone A and Zone AE areas without a delineated floodway
on the Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels adopted in Section 3 of this Ordinance
shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by Lent Township in accordance with
the criteria spelled out in Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.5000- 6120.6200
and 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 65. When determining the floodway
boundaries
for lakes, wetlands, and other basins, Lent Township can determine the area at
or below the ordinary high water level as defined in Minnesota Statutes,
Section 103G.005, Subdivision 14 to be floodway.
   Lowest Floor: the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area, including the
basement.
   Manufactured Home: a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufacture home" does not include the term "recreational vehicle."
   Obstruction: any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood plain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   Recreational Vehicle: a vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck, and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling by as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. For the
purposes of this Ordinance, the term recreational vehicle shall be synonymous
with the term travel trailer/travel vehicle.
   Regional Flood: a flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100 year
recurrence interval. Regional flood is synonymous with the term "base flood"
used in the Flood Insurance Study.
   Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation: The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   Structure: anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground, including, but not limited to buildings, accessory buildings, pole
barns, factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, and
other similar items.
   Substantial Damage: means damage of any origin sustained by a structure
where the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would
equal or exceed 50 percent of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
   Substantial Improvement: within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the market value of the structure before
the "start of construction" of the improvement. This term includes structures
that have incurred "substantial damage," regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however include:
a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations
of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have
been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are the
minimum necessary assure safe living conditions.
b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure" provided that the alteration will
not preclude the
structure's continued designation as a "historic structure." For purpose of
this Ordinance, "historic structure" shall be as defined in 44 Code of Federal
Regulations, Part 59.1.
SECTION 6. ADMINISTRATION
6.1   Development Approvals
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8 of this Ordinance for
nonconformities, no person shall erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
improve, move, or demolish any building or structure within the Flood Plain
District. No mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation,
obstruction, drilling operation or other form of development as defined herein
Section 4 of this Ordinance shall be allowed. These activities are currently
not allowed within the Flood Plain District and would only be allowed if this
Ordinance is amended to allow such activities in the future with appropriate
specified flood protection performance standards and the issuance of
development permits.
6.2   Interpretation of District Boundaries
   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the Official Flood District Map and the attachments thereto. Where
interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the
district as shown on the Official Flood District Map and the attachments
thereto, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped
boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal appeal of the
decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment shall make the
necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on elevations on the
regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that existed on the
site at the time Lent Township adopted its initial floodplain ordinance or on
the date of the first National Flood Insurance Program map showing the area
within the 100-year floodplain if earlier, and other available technical data.
Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be given a
reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board of Adjustment and to
submit technical evidence for determining the 100-year flood elevation the
floodway and flood fringe boundaries pursuant to Section 8.07 of the Lent
Township Zoning Ordinance, and consistent with the definitions of floodway and
flood fringe in Section 4.0 of this Ordinance.
6.3   Variances
   The Planning and Zoning Commission of Lent Township, that has been assigned
the duties of the Township's Board of Adjustment, shall submit by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
variances sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at
least ten days notice of the hearing. A copy of all decisions granting
variances shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources
within ten (10) days of such action. No variance shall have the effect of
allowing any use prohibited in
the Flood Plain District, permit a lower degree of protection than the
regulatory flood protection elevation of permit standards lower than those
required by state law. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for
a variance that: 1) The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the 100-year flood elevation will result in increased insurance premium rates
for flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance
coverage; and 2) such construction below the 100-year flood elevation increases
risk to life and property. The community shall maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and report such
variances issued in its annual or biennial report submitted to the
Administrator of the National Flood Insurance Program. The following additional
variance criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
6.3.1   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
6.3.2   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon 1) showing of good
and sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the variance
would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a determination
that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or conflict with
existing local laws or ordinances.
6.3.3   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance
is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
6.4   Amendments
   All amendments to this Ordinance must be submitted to and approved by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to adoption.
6.5   Detachments
   The Official Flood District Map and Flood Insurance Rate map panels adopted
by reference into Section 3 of this Ordinance will include floodplain areas
that lie inside the official unincorporated Township boundary. If any of these
floodplain land areas are detached and incorporated into a
SECTION 7. PERMITTED USES IN THE FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT
7.1   The following uses have low flood damage potential and do not obstruct
flood flows. These uses shall be permitted within the Flood Plain District
without a permit to the extent that they are not prohibited by any other
ordinance and provided they do not require structures, fill, obstructions,
excavations, drilling operations, storage of materials or equipment or any
other form of development as defined herein Section 4 of this Ordinance; except
for recreational vehicles as permitted in Section 7.1.6.
7.1.1   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing, forestry,
sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
7.1.2   Industrial-commercial uses such as parking areas and airport landing
strips.
7.1.3   Private and public recreational uses such as tennis courts, driving
ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas,
parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, shooting preserves, target
ranges, trap and
skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or multiple purpose
recreational trails.
7.1.4   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
7.1.5   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens parking areas, and play areas.
7.1.6   Recreational vehicles. There shall be no new recreational vehicle parks
or campgrounds located within the Flood Plain District. Recreational vehicles
will be allowed on existing lots or parcels of record if they meet the
following standards:
7.1.6.1   They have current licenses for highway use;
7.1.6.2   They are highway ready, meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect utilities commonly
used in campgrounds and recreation vehicle parks;
7.1.6.3   Except for at-grad patios, there shall be no new development on the
lot or parcel associated with the recreational vehicle including, but not
limited to, such activities as decks, storage buildings, garages, gazebos, fuel
storage tanks, and room additions.
7.1.6.4   There shall be no development allowed on the lot or parcel that would
hinder the removal of the recreational vehicle to a flood free location should
flooding occur.
7.1.6.5   They conform with Section 4.12(B) of the Lent Township Zoning
Ordinance.
7.1.7   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8 for nonconformities, all
other uses and all uses that require structures, fill, obstructions,
excavations, drilling operations, storage of material or equipment or any other
form of development as defined herein Section 4 of this Ordinance shall be
prohibited.
SECTION 8. NONCONFORMITIES:
A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before the
passage or amendment of this Ordinance but which is not in conformity with the
provisions of this Ordinance may be continued subject to the following
conditions:
8.1   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a way
that increases its nonconformity. There shall be no expansion to the outside
dimension of a nonconforming structure in the floodplain.
8.2   Any structural alteration to a nonconforming structure or nonconforming
use in the floodplain which would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation in accordance with any of the flood proofing techniques
(i.e. FP-1 thru FP-4 flood proofing classifications) allowable in the State
Building Code, except as further restricted in 8.4 below.
8.3   If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in Section 4 of this Ordinance, it shall not be reconstructed unless it
is located in the flood fringe portion of
the floodplain and is reconstructed in accordance with the standards found in
Section 8.5 of this Ordinance.
8.4   If a substantial improvement occurs, as defined in Section 4 of this
Ordinance, from any rehabilitation, reconstruction, alteration, or other
improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing nonconforming structure,
then the existing nonconforming structure must be located in the flood fringe
portion of the floodplain and meet the requirements of Section 8.5 of this
Ordinance. A nonconforming structure shall not be substantially improved if
said structure is located in the floodway.
8.5   The following standards and procedures apply to nonconforming structure
that have been substantially damaged or substantially improved in the flood
fringe portion of the floodplain:
8.5.1   All structures, including manufactured homes, must be elevated on fill
so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for structures shall be
no lower than one (1) foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and
the fill shall extend at such elevation at least fifteen (15) feet beyond the
outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
8.5.2   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
8.5.3   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system here a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map Panels adopted in Section 3 of this
Ordinance.
8.5.4   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
8.5.5   On-site Sewage Treatment and Water Supply Systems: where public
utilities are not provided: 1) On-site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and
discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the State's current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this Section.
8.5.6   A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in conformity with the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be secured prior to the commencement of
construction.
8.5.7   Application for a permit shall be made in duplicate to the Zoning
Administrator on forms furnished by Lent Township and shall include the
following: plans in duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location,
dimensions, and elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill,
or storage of materials, and the location of the foregoing in relation to the
stream channel.
8.5.8   Prior to granting a permit, the Zoning Administrator shall determine
that the applicant has obtained all necessary county, state and federal
permits.
8.5.9   Certification: The applicant shall be required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill, building elevations or flood proofing measures
were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
8.5.10   Record of First Floor Elevation: The offices of Lent Township and the
Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) of all new structures and alterations to existing
structures in the floodplain. The offices of Lent Township and the Zoning
Administrator shall also maintain a record of the elevation to which structures
or alterations to structures are flood proofed.
SECTION 9. WARNING OF DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY
   This Ordinance does not imply that areas outside the Flood Plain District or
land uses permitted within the district will be free from flooding or damages.
This ordinance shall not create liability on the part of Lent Township or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this Ordinance or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
SECTION 10. ENFORCEMENT
   Violation of the provisions of this Ordinance or failure to comply with any
of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances) shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law. Each additional day that
lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this Ordinance and shall be
prosecuted accordingly.
SECTION 11. SEVERABILITY
   If any section, clause provision, or portion of this Ordinance is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this Ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
SECTION 12. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance takes effect upon its adoption and publication according to
law.
   Whereupon said Ordinance was declared passed adopted this    day of    ,
2014, by the Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
   Gene Olson, Chairman
   Attest: Laura LeVasseur, Town Clerk
CHAPTER TEN
APPENDICES TO OFFICIAL LAND USE REGULATIONS
APPENDIX A. SCHEDULE OF FEES
   An Ordinance relating to, and establishing fees and administrative charges
necessary for the administration and implementation of land use regulations
within Lent Township for the purpose of promoting and protecting the public
health, safety, order, convenience, prosperity, and general welfare of Lent
Township.
LENT TOWNSHIP does ordain as follows:
SECTION 1. ESTABLISHMENT OF FEE SCHEDULE
   The following Schedule of Fees is hereby established pursuant to Chapter 6,
Section 4.01 of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations and shall be placed in
effect for all actions, activities and transactions pursuant to Chapters Two
(2) through Five (5) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations.
SECTION 2. SCHEDULE OF FEES FOR ACTIONS AND ACTIVITIES GOVERNED BY LENT
TOWNSHIP REGULATIONS
2.01   Application Fees.
   The following fees shall apply to all applications for an action or activity
pursuant to Chapters Two (2) through Five (5) of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations:
Application Fee for: Fee to be charged:
Application Fee for:                                         Fee to be charged:
Amendment to Land Use Regulations (includes re-zoning)       $1,000.00
Appeal from an Action or Decision                            $300.00
Building Permit                                              See Section 2.03
Civil Fines                                                   
   First Offense                                          $200.00
   Second Offense                                         $400.00
   Per Offense After 2 Offenses                           $500.00
Driveway Permit (aprons & culverts)                          $300.00
Right-of-Way Permit                                          $50.00
Solar Site Permit                                            $125.00
Platting
   Lot-Block Subdivision (Preliminary Plat) 1-3 lots      $500.00
   Lot-Block Subdivision (Preliminary Plat) >3 lots       $500.00
                                                             +$35/lot
Conservation Subdivision or Planned Unit Development         $450.00
(Preliminary Plat)
Note: Preliminary Plat Fee includes one site visit per lot
for groundtruthing of soils. Any additional trips will be    $75.00 per trip
charged.
Preliminary Plat compliance fee                               
   w/o proposed road                                      $150.00 flat fee
   With proposed road                                     $100.00 per flat
Lot-Block Subdivision (Final Plat)                           $500.00
Development (Final Plat)                                     $1600.00 per lot
EAW Processing Fee                                           $500.00
Final Plat                                                   $500.00 +
                                                             recording fees
Park Fee                                                     $1,600.00 per lot
Septic Fees
Sewage Treatment System                                       
   Permits: Individual Single-Family                      $300.00
   Residential                                             
   Individual Two-Family Residential)                     $350.00
   Individual Commercial Use                              $750.00
   Community Residential Use                               
      for each Septic Tank or Holding Tank to be used  $150.00
      for first 750 gallons per day of waste generated $300.00
      for each additional 750 gallons per day of waste $100.00
generated
   Community Commercial Use                                
      for each Septic Tank or Holding Tank to be used  $150.00
       for first 750 gallons per day of waste generate$500.00
      for each additional 750 gallons per day of waste $150.00
generated
   Install or Replace Septic Tank or Holding Tank only    $100.00
Zoning Fees
Sign Permit                                                  $75.00
Administrative Permit                                        $125.00
Site Permit (for agricultural-use structures only)           $75.00
Variance/Appeal                                              $500.00
Lot Line Adjustment Permit                                   $200.00
Single Lot Metes and Bounds Subdivision                      $250.00
Park Fee for Single Lot Metes and Bounds Subdivision         $500.00
Conditional Use Permit (minor use)1                          $500.00
Conditional Use Permit (major use)2                          $1,025.00
Interim Use Permit (minor use)1                              $500.00
Interim Use Permit (major use)2                              $1,025.00
Administrative Gravel Mining Permit (for public projects)    $525.00
Rezoning                                                     $525.00
Grading & Filling                                            $125.00
Mineral Extraction Permit (per acre of land where extraction $250.00
takes place)
1   Shall include: Home Occupations and Residential Kennels.
2   Shall include: Conservation subdivisions or planned unit developments,
commercial uses which are not a home occupation, commercial recreation
facilities, mineral extraction, communication towers, pipelines, transmissions
lines and associated towers, and any other conditional use not included as a
Minor Conditional Use.
3   Preliminary Plat fee includes one site visit per lot for verification of
soils. Any additional inspections necessary shall be charged at the standard
rate for inspections listed below.
4   See Chapter 3, Lent Township Subdivision Ordinance, Section 4.04
Any Permit Issued "After-the-Fact"                           Double the
                                                             Applicable Fee
 
2.02   Inspection and Service Fees
   The following fees shall apply to all inspections or other services provided
pursuant to Chapters Two (2) through Five (5) of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations:
Inspection or Other Service Provided: Fee to be charged:
Inspection or Other Service Provided: Fee to be charged:
Inspections:
Sewage Treatment System Compliance    $200.00
(complete system)
Sewage Treatment System Compliance    $100.00
(septic or holding tank only)
Sewage Treatment System Site Review   $75.00 (per lot trip)
(verification of soil borings)
Sewage Treatment System Re-inspection $100.00 (per lot trip)
All Other Inspections for Land Use    $75.00 (per lot trip)
Regulations
Administrative Services:
Computer Generated Lists/Files (per   $1.00
page or per file)
Copying Charge (per copy)             $0.25
Document Charge (per page)            $1.00
File/Record Search & Other Staff      $25.00 per hour
Services                              (plus all associated Copy/Document/Mail
                                      charges)
Special Public Meetings Requested by  $1,000.00
Individuals or Organizations          (Other than Township Officials)
 
2.03   Building Permit Fees.
   The following fees shall apply to all building permits pursuant to Chapter
Five (5) of the Lent Township Land Use Regulations. All fees for building
permits shall be determined after a review of plans and specifications
submitted by the applicant. Building permit fees shall be based upon the
estimated "valuation" as established by the most recent Building Valuation Data
Report published by the Minnesota Department of Labor and Industry.
   A.   Fees based on type and valuation of structure or improvement.
   The following fee schedule shall apply to all structures or improvements
that are not specifically identified under the "fixed fee" schedule set forth
in Section 2.03.C of this Ordinance:
Total Valuation of Structure or Improvement: Fee to be charged:
Total Valuation of Structure or Fee to be charged:
Improvement:
$1.00 to $500.00                $23.00
                                $23.50 for the first $500.00 plus $3.05 for
$501.00 to $2,000.00            each additional $100.00, or fraction
                                thereof, to and including $2,000.00.
                                $69.25 for the first $2,000.00 plus $14.00
$2,001.00 to $25,000.00         for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction
                                thereof, to and including $25,000.00.
                                $391.25 for the first $25,000.00 plus $10.10
$25,001.00 to $50,000.00        for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction
                                thereof, to and including $50,000.00.
                                $643.75 for the first $50,000.00 plus $7.00
$50,001.00 to $100,000.00       for each additional $1,000.00, or fraction
                                thereof, to and including $100,000.00.
$100,001.00 to $500,000.00      $993.75 for the first $100,000.00 plus $5.60
                                for each additional
                                $3,233.75 for the first $500,000.00 plus
$500,001.00 to $1,000,000.00    $4.75 for each additional $1,000.00, or
                                fraction thereof, to and including
                                $1,000,000.00.
                                $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000.00 plus
$1,000,001.00 and up            $3.15 for each additional $1,000.00 or
                                fraction thereof.
 
   B.   Plan Review Fees.
   The following fees shall be charged for reviewing all plans and
specifications submitted in order to obtain a building permit pursuant to
Section 2.03.A.
   Commercial and Residential Plan Review   65% of Building Permit Fee
   C.   Fixed fees based on type and/or value of structure or improvement.
   A schedule of fixed fees shall apply to the following listed types of
structures or improvements, based on the specified limiting criteria and
provided the estimated cost of the Project does not exceed 50% of the estimated
replacement cost of the structure. Any remodeling in excess of 50% of the
estimated replacement cost of the structure shall require the issuance of a
building permit pursuant to Section 2.03.A of this Ordinance:
Structure or Improvement: Limiting Criteria: Fee to be charged:
Structure or Improvement:   Limiting Criteria:        Fee to be charged:
Demolition, Commercial      Partial or complete       $250.00 & $1.00 surcharge
                            demolition
Demolition, Residential     Partial or complete       $100.00 & $1.00 surcharge
                            demolition
Fireplace (Gas or Wood)     Commercial or Residential $80.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Gas Piping (not part of     Commercial                $150.00 & $1.00 surcharge
HVAC installation)
Gas Piping (not part of     Residential               $50.00 & $1.00 surcharge
HVAC installation)
Heating, Ventilation or Air
Handling Installation       Commercial                $150.00 & $1.00
surcharge                                             
(includes Air Conditioning)                           
Heating, Ventilation or Air Residential               $50.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Handling Installation
(includes Air Conditioning)
Interior Remodeling,        No plumbing alterations   $150.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Commercial
Interior Remodeling,        No plumbing alterations   $100.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Residential
Plumbing (up to 10          Commercial                $150.00 & $1.00 surcharge
openings)
Plumbing (more than 10      Commercial                $150.00, plus $1.00 per &
openings)                                             $1.00 surcharge
Plumbing (up to 10          Residential               $80.00 & $1.00 surcharge
openings)
Plumbing (more than 10      Residential surcharge     $100.00 & $1.00
openings)
Residential Appliance/      See M.S. §16B.665        $15.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Fixture*
Roof Replacement,           No structural alterations $150.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Commercial
Roof Replacement,           No structural alterations $75.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Residential
Siding Replacement,         No structural alterations $150.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Commercial
Siding Replacement,         No structural alterations $100.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Residential
Window/Door Replacement,    Using existing opening    $150.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Commercial
Window/Door Replacement,    Using existing opening    $100.00 & $1.00 surcharge
Residential
 
* applies to the improvement, installation or replacement of a residential
appliance or fixture that:
   1.   Does not require modification to electric or gas service;
   2.   Has a total installation cost of $500 or less, excluding the cost of
the appliance or fixture; and
   3.   Is improved, installed or replaced by the homeowner or a licensed
contractor.
   D.   Other Inspection Fees.
   The following fees will be charged for additional or special services
required to complete the review and/or processing of a building permit:
Additional or Special Service required: Fee to be charged:
Additional or Special Service required:                     Fee to be charged:
Inspections outside of normal business hours                $47.00 per hour *
Re-inspection fees assessed under appropriate provisions of $47.00 per hour *
the Lent Township Land Use Regulations
Inspections for which no fee is specifically indicated      $47.00 per hour *
(minimum charge - one-half hour)
Additional plan review required by changes, additions       $47.00 per hour *
or revisions to plans                                        
Use of outside consultants for plan checking and            Actual costs**
inspections, or both.
* Or the total hourly cost to the jurisdiction, whichever is the greatest.
This cost shall include supervision, overhead, equipment, hourly wages and
fringe benefits of the employees involved.
** Actual costs include administrative and overhead costs.
 
2.04   Fees not refundable.
   A.   All fees paid to the Township for applications, inspections, services,
or any other activity or transaction pursuant to the provisions of the Lent
Township Land Use Regulations shall be non-refundable.
   B.   Any bond, cash, letter of credit, or other surety offered in order to
ensure compliance with the requirements of the Lent Township Land Use
Regulations shall only be redeemed or refunded upon full compliance with the
conditions established for the required action or transaction.
2.05   Incomplete Applications or Changes to Submitted Applications.
   A.   Any incomplete application shall be returned to the applicant for
completion and an additional fee of $25.00 shall be required to re-submit the
application. For the purposes of this Section, an incomplete application shall
be any application lacking any or all of the following information:
      1.   Full name, mailing address, and daytime telephone number of the
Applicant;
      2.   Full legal description of the property or site for which an
application is submitted;
      3.   Specific indication of the permit or action for which an application
is submitted;
      4.   All data, descriptions, legal documentation, plans, specifications,
and any other information required under the applicable provisions of the Lent
Township Land Use Regulations in order to evaluate and act upon the
application.
   B.   Where an applicant requests to make a substantial change to any
application already undergoing review, an additional fee of $50.00 shall be
submitted before the requested changes shall be considered.
2.06   Withdrawn Applications.
   A.   Where an applicant requests that their application be withdrawn from
consideration and review before the application has been submitted to the
Township Building Inspector or Planning Commission, all applicationfees shall
be refunded, less any expenses incurred by the Township prior to withdrawal.
   B.   Where an applicant requests that their application be withdrawn from
consideration and review after the application has been submitted to the
Township Building Inspector or Planning Commission, all applicationfees shall
be forfeited to the Township.
2.07   No application or action required.
   In the event that no approval, administrative action or permit is required
for a proposed activity or action under the Lent Township Land Use Regulations
any fees submitted to the Township shall be refunded.
SECTION 3. DATE OF EFFECT
3.01   Date of Effect.
   This Ordinance shall be in full force and effect after its approval and
publication as provided by law.
   Passed and approved this 16th day of January, 2007, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors. Gene Olson, Chairman Attest: Roxanne Kahler, Township
Clerk
   Published in the Chisago County Press January 25, 2007.
   Published in the East Central Minnesota Post Review January 24, 2007.
Amendments
   Amendment 10-001 passed and approved April 17, 2007, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
   Amendment 10-002 passed and approved May 20, 2008, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
   Amendment 10-003 passed and approved September 15, 2009, by the Lent
Township Board of Supervisors.
   Amendment 10-004 passed and approved August 17, 2010, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
   Amendment 10-005 passed and approved February 15, 2011, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors.
   Ordinance 2018-02 passed and approved May 15, 2018, by the Lent Township
Board of Supervisors. Published in the North Branch Post Review May 24, 2018
and the Chisago County Press May 23, 2018. Rick Keller, Chairperson. Attest:
Kelly Wood, Town Clerk Ordinance 2020-01 passed and approved January 21, 2020,
by the Lent Township Board of Supervisors.
 
