CITY OF ST. CHARLES, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 668, passed 11-26-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE #509
AN ORDINANCE ENACTION A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF ST. CHARLES,
MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING
CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE
OF ORDINANCE, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes Section 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of St. Charles, Minnesota,
ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised
updated, codified and compiled in the book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of St. Charles." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
   I. Streets, Easements and Public Ways
   II. Grants, Franchises and Agreements
   III. Annexations
   IV. Zoning
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
on the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting
or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall this repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances. All fees
established in prior ordinances codified in this Code shall remain in effect
unless amended in this code or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinance to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of the
Code of Ordinances shall marked and be kept on the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City and shall be received in evidences as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
Passed and adopted by the Council of the City of St. Charles, Minnesota this
12th day of June, 2007.
                                              
William J. Spitzer, Mayor
Attest:                                    
Janell Dahl, Deputy City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION;
GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.21   Statutory rules adopted
   
10.22   Hearings
   
10.90   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
   AppendixI:   Resolution to adopt a schedule of offenses and voluntary
administrative penalties
   AppendixII:   Notice of code violation
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted.
   (B)   Code title, chapter and section headings do not constitute any part of
the law as contained in the code.
   (C)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.”
   (D)   Sections may be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed
by the number, such as “§ 10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other
than the title, chapter and section numbers are employed for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY when used in this code may also be used to refer to
the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Winona County.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
       PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the Deputy
Clerk for public inspection. The Deputy Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for
a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city's Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the Deputy Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Deputy Clerk or City Council shall have
the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The Deputy Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   (1)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the Deputy
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property.
      (2)   This warrant shall be only to determine whether the provisions of
this code enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are
being complied with and to enforce these provisions only, and no criminal
charges shall be made as a result of the warrant.
      (3)   No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue
the warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause
does not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular
property.
   (E)   (1)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the Deputy Clerk or any other authorized city
officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions.
      (2)   Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance to the
property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits, licenses or
city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of the property, stating the grounds
for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or other person in
control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear before the
Deputy Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to appeal
of the Deputy Clerk's decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.21 STATUTORY RULES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The definitions and construction of words, phrases and laws contained
in M.S. Chapter 645, as it may be amended from time to time, are adopted by
reference and made a part of this code, except where those provisions are in
conflict with this code.
   (B)   As so adopted, references in that chapter to laws and statutes mean
provisions of this code and references to the legislature mean the Council.
(1987 Code, § 101.03)
§ 10.22 HEARINGS.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise provided in this code, or by law, every
public hearing required by law, ordinance or resolution to be held on any
legislative or administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Notice. Every hearing shall be preceded by 10-days’ mailed notice to
all persons entitled thereto by law, ordinance or regulation unless only
published notice is required, or unless a different notice requirement is
specified. The notice shall state the time, place and purpose of the hearing.
Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not invalidate the
proceedings of a good faith effort has been made to comply with this division.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. At the hearing, each party in interest shall have
an opportunity to be heard and to present evidence that is relevant to the
proceeding. The Council may adopt rules governing the conduct of hearing,
records to be made and other matters as it deems necessary.
   (D)   Record. Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the Council
shall have prepared a written summary of its findings and decisions and enter
the summary in the official Council minutes.
(1987 Code, § 101.05)
§ 10.90 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Purpose. Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to
this chapter are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal,
cost effective, and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be
voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with administrative
offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative penalty as is
provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from participation in the
procedures; in which event the city may bring criminal charges in accordance
with the law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate
an administrative offense and may bring criminal charges in the first instance.
In the event a party participates in the administrative offense procedures but
does not pay the monetary penalty which may be imposed, the city may seek to
collect costs of the administrative offense procedures as part of a subsequent
criminal sentence in the event the party is charged and is adjudicated guilty
of the criminal violation.
   (B)   Administrative offense defined. An ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE is a
violation of a provision of this code and is subject to the administrative
penalties set forth in the schedule of offenses and penalties referred to in
division (H), hereafter.
   (C)   Notice. The City Administrator, an officer of the Police Department,
or any other person employed by the city, and authorized in writing by the City
Administrator, as having authority to enforce this code; may upon determining
that there has been a violation, notify the violator, or in the case of a
vehicular violation, attach to the vehicle a notice of the violation. Said
notice shall set forth the nature, date and time of the violation, the name of
the official issuing the notice, and the amount of the scheduled penalty.
   (D)   Payment. Once such notice is given, the alleged violator may, within
14 days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth on the
schedule of penalties for the violation, or may request an informal conference
with the City Administrator in writing, as is provided for hereafter. The
penalty may be paid in person or by mail. Payment shall be deemed to be an
admission of the violation.
   (E)   Informal conference. Any person contesting an administrative offense
pursuant to this chapter may, within 14 days of the time of issuance of the
notice, request an informal conference with the City Administrator. The City
Administrator shall have authority to dismiss the violation or reduce or waive
the penalty. If the violation is sustained, the alleged violator shall pay the
entire or reduced penalty within 7 days from the conference date.
   (F)   Failure to pay. In the event a party is charged with an administrative
offense and fails to timely pay the penalty; a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor
charge may be brought against the alleged violator in accordance with the city
code.
   (G)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
chapter shall be paid to the city's Deputy Clerk and may be deposited in the
city's general fund.
   (H)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses which may be charged as
administrative offenses, and the penalties for such offenses, may be
established by ordinance or resolution of the City Council from time to time.
Copies of such offenses and penalties shall be maintained at City Hall and
shall be available to the public during regular business hours.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses. In the event a party is charged with a subsequent
administrative offense violation of the same provision within a 12-month
period, the subsequent administrative penalty may be doubled.
(Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
APPENDIX I
RESOLUTION TO ADOPT THE PROVISIONS OF
MINNESOTA BASIC CODE § 10.98 AND A SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES AND VOLUNTARY
ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
   WHEREAS, the City Council wishes to adopt the provisions of Minnesota Basic
Code § 10.98, establishing a procedure for requesting the voluntary payment of
administrative penalties for certain violations of the code; and
   WHEREAS, the provisions of Minnesota Basic Code § 10.98 authorize the City
Council, by a resolution adopted by a majority of its members, to identify
administrative offenses and establish penalties for these offenses;
   NOW THEREFORE, be it resolved by the City Council as follows:
   The City Council hereby adopts the provisions of Minnesota Basic Code §
10.98 and adopts the following administrative penalties:
   Offense      Code Section    Amount of Administrative Penalty
   All offenses for which an administrative penalty may be established under
this code, other than those specified below:
   EFFECTIVE DATE: The effective date of the resolution is the date of its
passage by a majority of the members of the City Council. Passage of this
resolution implements the provisions of city code § 10.98.
Mayor:                                                          
Attest:                                                           
      City Clerk
APPENDIX II
NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the city code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the city code relating to
                                     .
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate criminal proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate criminal
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash or money
order to the City Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   EMPLOYMENT
      
32.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
33.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
34.   FEES AND ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Quorum and voting
   
30.06   Amendments, motions and the like
   
30.07   Committees
   
30.08   Boards and commissions
   
30.09   Office of Deputy Registrar
   
30.10   Compensation of Mayor and Council members
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings.
      (1)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Tuesday
of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m.
      (2)   Any regular meeting falling on a holiday shall be held on the next
business day at the regular time and place.
      (3)   All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall be
held in the City Hall unless other notice is given.
   (B)   Initial meeting. At the first Council meeting on the first business
day in January of each year, the Council shall do the following:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of the city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose 1 of the Council members as acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the Mayor's disability or absence from the city
or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has been
appointed; and
      (4)   Appoint officers and employees and members of boards, commissions
and committees as may be necessary.
   (C)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings and meetings of Council committees and boards shall be open to the
public.
(1987 Code, § 201.01)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure prescribed below and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with the rules
stated in the Minnesota Mayor's Handbook, January 2010; at Appendix B.
   (B)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may second motions
or speak on any question except that on demand of any Council member, the
presiding officer shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily. The presiding officer must vacate the chair to make a
motion.
(1987 Code, § 201.02) (Am. Ord. 537, passed 7-13-2010)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps.
      (1)   Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the City
Administrator. In the City Administrator's absence, the presiding officer shall
appoint a Secretary Pro Tem.
      (2)   Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in
the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the City Administrator
and can be accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval.
      (1)   The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten form
and signed by the City Administrator; copies shall be delivered to each Council
member as soon as practical after the meeting.
      (2)   At the next regular Council meeting, following delivery, approval
of the minutes shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read
aloud, but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections.
      (3)   If there is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it
may be made without a vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the
Council shall vote upon the addition or correction. If there are no additions
or corrections, the minutes shall stand approved.
(1987 Code, § 201.03)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
appointed time and place. Council business shall be conducted in the following
order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Appointment of a Secretary Pro Tem if the City Administrator is
absent;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Approval of minutes;
      (5)   Petitions, complaints, visitors;
      (6)   Reports of officers, boards and committees:
         (a)   Standing committee;
         (b)   Special committee; and
         (c)   Administration officer.
      (7)   Notices and communications;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Miscellaneous, announcements; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer, but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing.
   (C)   Agenda.
      (1)   An agenda for each regular Council meeting shall be prepared and
filed in the City Administrator's office not later than 2 working days before
the meeting.
      (2)   The agenda shall be prepared in accordance with the order of
business and copies shall be delivered to each Council member, and others as
appropriate as far in advance of the meeting as possible.
      (3)   No item of business shall be considered unless it appears on the
agenda for the meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda by a unanimous
vote of the Council members present.
(1987 Code, § 201.04)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. A majority of the combined Council members and Mayor shall
constitute a quorum to do business. A simple majority of any Board or Committee
shall constitute a quorum for that Board or Committee to do business.
   (B)   Voting.
      (1)   The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any manner
which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of the
members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes.
      (2)   The vote of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of
money, except for payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute.
If any member is present but does not vote, the minutes shall indicate that
member abstained.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all Council members shall be
necessary for approval of any modification of or addition to this code unless a
larger number is required by statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute
or this code, a majority vote of a quorum shall prevail in all other cases.
(1987 Code, § 201.05)
§ 30.06 AMENDMENTS, MOTIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Writing requirement. Amendments to this code and resolutions shall be
in writing and presented and adopted in accordance with the provisions of Ch. 3
of the Home Rule Charter.
   (B)   Motions, petitions, communications.
      (1)   Every motion shall be stated in full before it is submitted to a
vote by the presiding officer and shall be recorded in the minutes.
      (2)   Every petition or other communication addressed to the Council
shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council
unless the Council dispenses with the reading.
      (3)   Each petition or other communication shall be recorded in the
minutes by title and filed with the minutes in the Deputy Clerk’s office.
(1987 Code, § 201.06)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
      (A)   Creation. The Council may create by resolution committees, standing
or special, and boards as it deems necessary to administer city affairs.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   Each committee shall consist of Council members. The members shall
be designated by the Mayor.
      (2)   Each committee member shall serve as appointed unless excused by a
majority of the Council members.
      (3)   Committee meetings shall be given the same notice as for special
meetings of the Council.
   (C)   Referral and reports.
      (1)   Any matter brought before the Council for consideration may be
referred by the presiding officer to an appropriate committee or to a special
committee appointed by the presiding officer.
      (2)   The committee shall submit a written report and recommendation
before the matter is considered by the Council as a whole.
      (3)   Each committee shall act promptly and faithfully on any matter
referred to it.
   (D)   Compensation. Any member of a Board, Commission or Committee shall
receive, as compensation for services rendered to the city, the right to attend
an annual dinner.
(1987 Code, § 201.07) (Am. Ord. 650, passed 1-24-2023)
§ 30.08 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   The following boards shall exist:
   (A)   Communications and Technology.
      (1)   (a)   Performance monitoring of the cable TV franchise shall be
accomplished by the accomplished by the Cable TV Board.
         (b)   Board members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by the Council, and shall consist of at least 3 and not more than
7 members who advise the Council of the franchisee's performance at least
annually.
         (c)   Each member shall serve without compensation.
         (d)   A report shall be submitted to the franchise and the Minnesota
Cable Communications Board and shall contain recommendations regarding
upgrading the system to meet current standards.
      (2)   In addition to the annual reports described in division (A)(1)
above, the Board shall submit a report 24 months prior to expiration of a
franchise and to the expiration of a certificate of confirmation, and the
report shall include the following:
         (a)   Written appraisal of franchisee's performance over the entire
length of the franchise with regard to the provisions of the franchise; and
         (b)   Recommendations for revised or additional provisions for the
franchise, considering:
            1.   Channel capacity;
            2.   Channels for access cable casting;
            3.   Facilities and staff assistance for cable casting;
            4.   Two-way capability; and
            5.   Need for further service to be extended within franchised
area.
      (3)   A copy of the report shall be sent to the Council, the franchisee
and the Minnesota Cable Communications Board within 10 days of its submission.
   (B)   Park and Recreation Board.
      (1)   The Park and Recreation Board shall consist of 9 members. Each
member shall serve without compensation shall be appointed by the Council, and
shall serve a term of 3 years.
      (2)   The Board shall, with the consent of the Council, have general
supervision, management and control of all work, improvements and programs on
or in any public park, parkway or recreational facility, and shall make
recommendations to the Council to hire or replace employees and to prescribe
duties and fix the compensation of all park employees.
      (3)   The Board may promulgate rules and regulations for the use of park
and recreational facilities as it deems necessary and proper to promote the
public use and preservation of the park lands. All rules and regulations must
be adopted by a majority of the Board members and shall be published
periodically in the city's official newspaper and shall be posted prominently
in park areas.
      (4)   Any violations of Board rules and regulations shall be a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed $300 or 90 days in
jail or both.
   (C)   Public Safety Advisory Commission.
      (1)   The St. Charles Public Safety Advisory Commission shall advise the
Council on matters involving the City Police, Fire and Ambulance Departments.
Subject to the limitations of the Charter, the Commission may investigate and
make recommendations to the Council regarding any matter of public safety as
may come before the Commission.
      (2)   The St. Charles Public Safety Advisory Commission shall consist of
7 members. Two shall be Council members, each with a 1-year term; 2 shall be
non-Council citizen members who reside within the city corporate limits each
with a 3-year term; and 3 shall be members of the St. Charles Ambulance
Department, the St. Charles Fire Department and the St. Charles Police
Department.
      (3)   The St. Charles Public Safety Advisory Commission shall assume the
duties and responsibilities granted in § 206.02.
(1987 Code, § 201.08)
§ 30.09 OFFICE OF DEPUTY REGISTRAR.
   (A)   Appointment and qualifications. The Council may seek to have appointed
a Deputy Registrar for motor vehicles pursuant to M.S. § 168.33, as it may be
amended from time to time, if the public interest and convenience so require.
   (B)   Duties. The Deputy Registrar shall have those duties, which are
assigned by the State Registrar of Motor Vehicles or Minnesota Statutes, or
both.
(1987 Code, § 201.09)
§ 30.10 COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   Annual compensation. Pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, as amended, the annual
salary of the Mayor shall be $4,800 per year, and the annual salary of each
individual City Council member shall be $3,600 per year.
   (B)   Payment period. The salaries established above in this section shall
be paid on a monthly basis and shall cover all City Council meetings and
activities for the calendar year, except as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   Additional compensation.
      (1)   A $35 per diem shall be paid to City Council members and the Mayor
for attending out-of-town meetings in their official capacity for the good of
the city. No per diem shall otherwise be paid when attending meetings within
city limits.
      (2)   Each member of the City Council and Mayor shall receive an annual
technology stipend in the amount of $1,200 for tools necessary for
communication and aiding in the work of a Council member and Mayor.
(Ord. 571, passed 10-28-2014)
CHAPTER 31: EMPLOYMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Scope
   
31.02   Employment
   
31.03   Outside employment
   
31.04   Residency requirement
   
31.05   On-call
   
31.06   Seniority
   
31.07   Transfers
   
31.08   Work periods and pay days
   
31.09   Overtime pay
   
31.10   Holidays
   
31.11   Vacation
   
31.12   Sick leave
   
31.13   Leave of absence and the like
Specific Provisions
   
31.25   Retirement
   
31.26   Resignation
   
31.27   Temporary employment benefits
   
31.28   Layoffs
   
31.29   Discipline
   
31.30   Grievance policy
   
31.31   Computer use policy
   
31.32   Miscellaneous provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   The Council intends this personnel policy to be uniform and equitable
and within the laws of the state and the Charter of the city.
   (B)   The following rules, regulations and policies shall apply to all city
employees under the direct and indirect jurisdiction of the Council.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.02 EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Equal employment opportunity.
      (1)   The policy and intent to the city is to provide equal employment
opportunity to all persons regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin, marital status and political affiliation, status with regard to public
assistance, disability, sex, sexual preference or age.
      (2)   This policy applies to all aspects of full, part-time and seasonal
employment practices including selection, promotion, transfer, compensation,
benefits, layoffs and termination.
      (3)   Equal employment opportunity problems should be brought to the
attention of the City Administrator, who will address the problem according to
the procedures outlined in the city’s Equal Employment Policy/Affirmative
Action Program.
   (B)   Personnel covered. Except as otherwise specifically provided, this
policy applies to all employees of the city except the following:
      (1)   All elected officials;
      (2)   The City Attorney and health officer;
      (3)   Members of city boards, commissions and committees;
      (4)   Volunteer firefighters, ambulance crew and other volunteer
personnel;
      (5)   Emergency employees; and
      (6)   Other employees not regularly employed in permanent positions.
   (C)   Probationary period.
      (1)   (a)   The first 6 months of employment of a permanent employee
shall be probationary. During this period, the employee will be helped to
effectively adjust to the position, the employee's work will be observed and
evaluated, and employees who do not meet the required standards will be
removed.
         (b)   An employee who has completed the probationary period and who
has not received, before completion of that period, a written notice from the
department head that the employee's services are terminated, shall have
successfully completed the probation period and attained the status of a
permanent employee. The probationary period may be extended by written notice
to the employee from the City Administrator or department head.
      (2)   Vacation and sick leave benefits shall be earned during a
probationary period, but may not be used until after its completion.
Probationary employees shall not be entitled to leaves of absence. If
employment is terminated during a probationary period, no sick leave, vacation
or other benefits are due.
      (3)   The requirements for a probationary period shall not be applied to
veterans.
   (D)   Background investigations.
      (1)   (a)   Authority to conduct. At the request of the City
Administrator or designee, the Police Department shall conduct background
investigations on the applicants for the following positions within the city,
unless the city's hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is
not needed: Finalists for regular, part-time, and volunteer city positions of
employment or independent contractor status, that have:
            1.   Applied for liquor or gambling licenses or permits to operate
an adult-only business;
            2.   Direct access to, or management of, public funds;
            3.   Substantial contact with juveniles in a setting where other
adults are not always present;
            4.   The task of entering private property on a regular basis;
            5.   The applicant will have supervisory responsibilities.
         (b)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation, the
Police Department is authorized to access data maintained in the State of
Minnesota's computerized criminal history information system in accordance with
state policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired must be maintained at the
Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement
official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized
criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to the
appointing authority and other city staff involved in the hiring process.
      (2)   Procedures. The City Administrator or designee may not request
information about potential firefighting personnel, who are governed by
different procedures under state law. The City Administrator or designee must
obtain the consent of the finalists before requesting the data, but an
applicant's failure to provide consent may disqualify the applicant from the
prospective position. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions
of state law regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information.
The city may reject an applicant for employment or volunteer position on the
basis of the applicant's prior criminal conviction, only if the city complies
with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 364.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003; Am. Ord. 535, passed 3-9-2010)
§ 31.03 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   The Council does not encourage outside work by city employees. Each
department shall be responsible for regulating its employees outside work in
accordance with the following policy:
   (A)   Employees may not engage in any occupation, employment or business
that hinders the impartial or objective performance of their public duties,
embarrasses the city government, is incompatible with their city employment or
impairs their efficiency on the job; and
   (B)   Outside work shall be regarded as work secondary to regular city
employment and shall not interfere with the availability of employees for
emergency or on-call duty. There shall be no worker's compensation or sick
leave payments to any individual injured in the course of outside work.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.04 RESIDENCY REQUIREMENT.
   All full-time city employees in the Police, Electric, Water, Sewer and
Street Departments who are in job classifications; (a) subject to the on-call
provisions of §
31.05 of this code, or (b) required for emergency response related to their job
duties must reside within a 30 minute response time to city limits. The City
Council finds that the job classifications covered by the foregoing requirement
provide essential services to the city in times of emergency, catastrophe or
other critical events and must be available for callback to the city to
maintain these essential services and for the protection of the public health,
safety and welfare. The City Council, in its discretion, may by duly adopted
resolution provide a longer response time than contained in this section, on
either a temporary or ongoing basis, for a job classification covered by this
requirement for purposes of recruitment or retention of employees in a key job
classification or where it finds reasonable based on available communications
technology.
(Am. Ord. 451, passed 11-14-2000; Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003; Ord. 563, passed
5-28-2013)
§ 31.05 ON-CALL.
   (A)   All city employees employed in the Electric, Water, Sewer and Street
Departments are required to be on-call according to a schedule established by
the Public Works Superintendent. When on-call, they shall be on-call for 1 week
and compensation shall be determined by resolution. The amount of compensation
may change from year-to-year as determined by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   Employees are required to arrive at the building or facility to
which they normally report to work as soon as possible but no later than 30
minutes from the time they were first contacted. In the event that 1 of the
holidays recognized and granted to employees for holiday pay shall fall within
the week of on-call, the employee shall be given additional compensation of in
an amount to be determined by resolution.
      (2)   It shall not be necessary that any of the on-call hours be worked
in order to be eligible for the compensation. In the event the hours are
worked, the employee shall be paid or granted compensatory time off in addition
to the on-call compensation. The employee shall be credited with a minimum of 2
hours worked for each separate occasion that he or she is called out.
      (3)   In the event it becomes necessary due to illness or other reasons,
that the employee on standby duty cannot fulfill their week of on-call, that
employee must arrange with someone else to fill in their time and the pay will
go to the employee with whom the arrangement was made. The Public Works
Superintendent, however, must approve this arrangement.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.06 SENIORITY.
   (A)   Benefits.
      (1)   Seniority as a city employee shall be considered in determining
benefits that are based on total length of service, such as vacation and sick
leave.
      (2)   Time employed for more than 1 city department is cumulative unless
there is an interruption in employment when the employee transfers from one
department to another.
   (B)   Vacancies. Seniority in a particular department shall be considered
when filling vacancies in higher paying jobs. Qualifications will be determined
by the department head and confirmed by the proper board or council.
   (C)   Lay-offs.
      (1)   Seniority in a job classification shall be considered, but shall
not be binding in the event of a lay-off. The last employee hired in a job
classification may be the first to be laid off and the last employee laid off
may be the first rehired.
      (2)   Employees promoted from jobs shall have the right to resume lesser
jobs in the event of lay-offs, providing they have more department seniority
than the worker being displaced. An employee may exercise job classification
seniority only within the department in which the employee currently works.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.07 TRANSFERS.
   When an employee transfers from one city department to another, the transfer
shall not be regarded as permanent until a 6-month trial period in the new
department has been completed. The employee may use sick leave, vacation and
other benefits during the trial period. If the work and adjustment of the
transferred employee is not satisfactory, the new supervisor may request that
the employee return to the former department.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.08 WORK PERIODS AND PAY DAYS.
   (A)   Regular workday and week. Except for employees in the Police
Department, the full-time regular work week shall be 40 hours, generally with
at least 2 consecutive days off each week, and the regular work day generally
shall be 8 working hours. Management personnel shall work additional hours
necessary to satisfactorily fulfill the duties of the other position.
   (B)   Full-time service. Full-time service is working the number of hours
that make up the regularly scheduled week or other service period in a
particular classification, exclusive of leave with pay.
   (C)   Prorate basis. When permanent employees work for a period of less than
the regularly established number of hours per day, days per week or weeks per
month, the amount paid shall have the same relationship to the full-time rate
for the classification as the time actually worked has to the required for
full-time service.
   (D)   Pay days. All employees are to be paid weekly. Should a pay day fall
on a holiday, the pay day will be the preceding business day. No advances will
be made before the regular pay day except in an emergency, and then only with
the approval of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.09 OVERTIME PAY.
   (A)   Compensatory time.
      (1)   Compensatory time off shall be the usual method of overtime
payment. Employees will receive their normal pay, with all hours in excess of
the regular work credited to the employee's overtime account.
      (2)   Hours worked in excess of 40 per week shall be credited at a rate
of 1-1/2-hours’ credit for each hour of overtime worked. This overtime will
then be used as time off at a time mutually agreeable to the employee and
supervisor or during periods of work shortage.
      (3)   The above procedure will permit the city to provide each permanent
employee with a full paycheck throughout the year and to avoid interruptions in
insurance and other benefits resulting from unpaid lay-offs in departments with
seasonal work.
   (B)   Use and carryover. Compensatory time off shall be used as soon as it
is practical. Not more that 80 hours of comp time shall be carried over from 1
fiscal year to the next. Also, not more than 40 hours of vacation shall be
carried over from 1 fiscal year to the next. No employee will be allowed to
accrue more than 120 hours of comp time during the year unless emergency
conditions or approval has been granted by the Public Works Director or City
Administrator.
   (C)   Compensatory payment. Compensatory payment for all public works
employees for overtime will be paid for each hour of overtime worked up to a
maximum of 80 hours per calendar year at the employee's regular hourly rate.
Where applicable, the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act shall apply. The minimum
number of hours that may be cashed in per week is 20.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.10 HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   (1)   Holidays shall include New Years Day, Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day, President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day,
Thanksgiving Day, day after Thanksgiving and Christmas Day.
      (2)   When a holiday falls on a Sunday, the following day shall be
considered the holiday, and when any holiday falls on a Saturday, the day
before is a holiday, in accordance with national protocol.
   (B)   Employees required to work on a holiday shall receive in lieu of the
holiday, time and 1/2 for work where otherwise stated in this policy.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.11 VACATION.
   (A)   Employees eligible.
      (1)   Permanent full-time salaried employees, permanent full-time hourly
employees and permanent part-time employees who are regularly scheduled to work
at least 30 hours per week on a year-round basis shall be eligible for an
annual vacation paid at their regular rate of pay.
      (2)   Permanent part-time employee's vacation is calculated on a pro rata
basis for actual hours worked. Only work time while the employee is so
classified shall count toward vacation eligibility and benefits. Employees are
eligible for vacation only after completing their probationary employment
period.
   (B)   Employees not eligible. Employees regularly scheduled to work less
that 30 hours per week, as well as temporary or seasonal employees, shall not
be eligible for vacation benefits.
   (C)   Calculating vacations.
   (D)   Vacation scheduling.
      (1)   Vacation leave shall be credited and available on an annual basis
on January 1 of each year. The department head shall approve the time at which
the vacation leave may be taken. The department heads will establish working
and vacation schedules with first consideration given to the efficient
operation of the department and second consideration to the employee's wishes.
Senior employees shall be given schedule preference.
      (2)   In no case will any time be taken as vacation without advance
approval by the department head. Unauthorized time off will result in a payroll
deduction.
   (E)   Employment ends. Upon leaving employment with the city, employees are
paid accumulated vacation computed to the nearest hour base on their hourly
wage at the time of termination.
   (F)   Waiver. Vacation is granted for the purpose of employee recreation. No
employee shall be permitted to waive vacations for the purpose of receiving
double pay except where unusual circumstances exist at the discretion of the
Council.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.12 SICK LEAVE.
   (A)   Eligibility. Employees shall be eligible for sick leave on the
following basis:
      (1)   Permanent full-time salaried employees, permanent full-time hourly
employees and permanent part-time employees who are regularly scheduled to work
at least 30 hours per week throughout the year, shall be eligible for sick
leave at their regular rate of pay, with the latter on a pro rata basis. Only
work time while the employee is so classified shall count toward sick leave
eligibility and benefits; and
      (2)   Employees regularly scheduled to work less than 30 hours per week
and temporary or seasonal employees, shall not be eligible for sick leave
benefits.
   (B)   Conditions. Sick leave may be granted under the following conditions:
      (1)   Sick leave with pay will be granted for bona fide personal illness
or injury, medical examinations, medical treatment, legal quarantine, dental
appointments or for other sickness prevention measures or in case of a work-
related injury;
      (2)   When the worker is eligible for worker's compensation, the worker
may choose to be paid his or her regular wage with the excess of the regular
wage over the worker's compensation payment being the amount charged in time
against the employee's sick leave account. When the sick leave account is
exhausted, the employee will receive worker's compensation only;
      (3)   Sick leave may be used in case of death or serious illness in the
immediate family, and shall be for the actual time required, not to exceed a
reasonable time at the discretion of the Council or department head. The time
will be charged against the employee's sick leave account. Immediate family
shall mean the employee's brothers, sisters, parents, children, spouse,
spouse's parents, spouse's brothers or sisters, sons-in-law or daughters-in-
law, grandparents or grandchildren;
      (4)   Employee sick leave may be used for the birth or adoption of a
child;
      (5)   No sick leave shall be granted to an employee during the first 6
months of employment, but leave shall accrue from the start of employment and
may be used after the completion of the 6-month probationary period; and
      (6)   It is the intention of this policy to be fully compliant with the
Family and Medical Leave Act (FMLA), and in no case will this policy precede
the FMLA.
   (C)   Accrual. One workday of sick leave shall be granted for each calendar
month of employment or major fraction thereof. Addition to or deductions from
each employee's sick leave account shall be made monthly. Unused sick leave
shall accrue until 120 days have accumulated.
   (D)   Considered working. Employees using earned sick leave shall be
considered to be working for the purpose of accumulating additional vacation
leave or sick leave except that the total consecutive sick leave used may not
exceed the maximum accumulation allowed. Only days that an employee would
normally have worked will be charged against his or her sick leave account.
   (E)   Proof required. An employee claiming sick leave may be required to
file competent written evidence that the absence was authorized. If the
employee has been incapacitated, the employee may be required to provide
evidence of physical ability to perform work duties.
   (F)   Privilege. Sick leave is a privilege designed for the purposes stated
herein. Each employee and department head shall be held accountable for the
reasonable, prudent and bona fide use of sick leave privileges.
   (G)   Personal time. Employees may use up to 16 hours annually of sick time
as personal time.
   (H)   Penalty. Claiming sick leave when physically fit, except as provided
in this section, may be cause for disciplinary action, including cancellation
of sick leave benefits, suspension, demotion or termination. The employee must
notify the department head of the need for leave at the earliest possible
moment and preferably before the start of the scheduled working hours. Failure
to make diligent effort to give notification may result in payroll deduction
for the time taken.
   (I)   Employment ends. Upon leaving employment with the city, employees are
paid accumulated sick time computed in the following manner:
      (1)   With at least 5 years of employment: accumulated time multiplied by
$1.50, not to exceed $1,000; and
      (2)   With at least 10 years of employment: accumulated time multiplied
by $3, not to exceed $1,000.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.13 LEAVE OF ABSENCE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Approved absences. Department heads or Boards or Commissions may, at
their discretion and with the concurrence of the Council, approve the absence
of an employee, without pay, not to exceed 30 calendar days. Any absence of
more than 30 days, whether with or without pay, shall be approved by the
Council in advance. Where appropriate, the Council will grant an official leave
of absence in order to preserve the employee's status as a public employee and
his or her benefit rights in the Public Employees Retirement Association
(P.E.R.A.)
   (B)   Jury duty. When an employee has been absent from work because of jury
duty, the employee shall be paid the employee's regular salary by the city,
with the understanding that upon the completion of jury service, the employee
shall show the jury check to the department head and the amount of the jury
check, less the amount for traveling expenses, shall be deducted from the
employee's next regular pay check.
   (C)   Military leave. Permanent employees, who have completed their
probationary period, shall be entitled to the following:
      (1)   Employees ordered by proper authority to National Guard or Reserve
Military Service not exceeding 15 days in any calendar year shall be entitled
to leave of absence without loss of status. The employees shall receive
compensation equal to their regular pay rate; and
      (2)   Employees called and ordered by proper authority to active military
service shall be entitled to leave of absence without pay during that service.
Upon completion of service employees shall be entitled to the same or similar
employment of like seniority, status and pay as if the leave had not been
taken, subject to the specific provisions of M.S. Chapter 192, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Maternity, paternity and adoption leave. This policy will be
consistent with the FMLA.
   (E)   School conferences and activities leave. An employee may take unpaid
leave or compensatory time off to attend school conferences or classroom,
activities related to the employee's child, provided the conference or
classroom activities cannot be scheduled during non-working hours.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
SPECIFIC PROVISIONS
§ 31.25 RETIREMENT.
   (A)   Age. The city cannot require retirement prior to age 70. An employee
with at least 1 year of service may retire at age 65. An employee with at least
20 years of service may retire between ages 58 and 65, but with reduced
annuity. An employee with at least 30 years of service may retire at age 62
with no reduction of annuity.
   (B)   State law. A copy of M.S. Chapter 181, as it may be amended from time
to time, shall be available in the City Administrator's office.
   (C)   Extensions in special cases. In special cases, the City Council may
grant work extensions to employees after the age of 70 on a year-to-year basis.
      (1)   An extension will be granted only when it is in the city's best
interest.
      (2)   Extension requests will be dealt with on an individual basis. Any
employee requesting an extension shall demonstrate physical fitness to perform
the required work by way of an annual physical examination. In addition,
recommendations by the department head, governing boards or commissions shall
be considered together with any pertinent facts in determining extension
requests.
      (3)   An employee desiring a work extension shall submit the request to
the Council in writing not less than 30 days prior to the employee's seventieth
birthday.
      (4)   In the absence of a Council-approved work extension, employees
shall retire from city employment by their seventieth birthday.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.26 RESIGNATION.
   (A)   Notice. Two weeks shall constitute proper notice for an employee who
is planning to resign in good standing, except supervisors who shall give 30-
days’ notice.
   (B)   Unauthorized leave. An unauthorized leave of absence by an employee
for 3 consecutive workdays may be considered by the department a voluntary
resignation.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.27 TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS.
   Temporary employees, seasonal employees and permanent part-time employees
shall not be entitled to benefits described in this employment policy.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.28 LAYOFFS.
   (A)   On the City Administrator's recommendation, the Council may lay off
permanent employees because of work or fund shortages, abolition of positions
or other reasons, 14 calendar days after written notice has been given to the
affected employees.
   (B)   On the City Administrator's recommendation, the Council may lay off
temporary employees with minimal notice. Permanent employees shall not be laid
off while there are temporary or probationary employees serving in the same
positions for which permanent employees are qualified, eligible and available.
Length of service in the same position classification shall be considered, but
shall not be binding.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.29 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   Measures. Employees may be warned, reprimanded, suspended, demoted,
dismissed or subject to other disciplinary measures.
   (B)   City Superintendent. Superintendent may, upon his or her own motion or
upon the recommendation of a department head, discipline employees of all
departments under their jurisdiction by using oral or written warnings and
reprimands or by recommending suspension, demotion or dismissal to the City
Administrator.
   (C)   By the City Administrator. The City Administrator may, upon his or her
own motion or upon the recommendation of the City Superintendent discipline
employees.
   (D)   Procedure. In all cases of disciplinary action other than oral
reprimand, a dated written notice of the proposed disciplinary action shall be
presented to the employee.
   (E)   Dismissal. Employees subject to the provision of this chapter may be
dismissed from municipal service by the Council as recommended by the City
Administrator as a result of any of the following:
      (1)   Incompetence or ineffective performance of duties;
      (2)   Conviction of a criminal offense involving moral turpitude;
      (3)   Insubordination;
      (4)   Violation of any lawful or official rule, regulation or order or
failure to obey any lawful direction made and given by a superior;
      (5)   Intoxication on duty or the consumption of alcoholic beverages
while on duty;
      (6)   The use of drugs or under the influence of drugs while on duty
except where described by a licensed physician;
      (7)   Intentional violation of safety rules;
      (8)   Theft of the city's or an employee's property;
      (9)   Misuse of city property;
      (10)   Use of abusive language;
      (11)   Excessive absence or tardiness;
      (12)   Excessive use of telephone for personal calls;
      (13)   Immoral conduct;
      (14)   Illegal acts;
      (15)   Non-compliance with all occupational safety and health standards,
rules or regulations;
      (16)   Physical or mental defect which, in the judgment of the appointing
authority, incapacitates the employee to an extent so as to materially
interfere with the proper performance of the employee's duties; an examination
by a licensed physician may be required and imposed by the appointing
authority;
      (17)   Wanton use of offensive conduct toward the public, municipal
officers, superiors or fellow employees;
      (18)   Inducing or attempting to induce a city officer or employee to
commit an unlawful act or to act in violation of any unlawful and reasonable
official regulation or order;
      (19)   Soliciting or accepting any gift, gratuity, loan, reward,
discount, valuable favor or any thing of value which is sought or offered on a
basis reasonably considered to be related to city employment and not generally
available to the public;
      (20)   Deliberately filing or making a false report or official
statement;
      (21)   Proven dishonesty in the performance of duties;
      (22)   Violations of the provisions of this employment policy (Chapter
31);
      (23)   Holding any other public office or employment which is
incompatible with city employment responsibilities, as determined by the City
Administrator;
      (24)   Failure to report any interest with respect to any relationship
which may create a substantial conflict of interest with respect to official
duties for the city; or
      (25)   Carelessness or negligence in handling or controlling city
property.
   (F)   Sexual harassment.
      (1)   For purposes of this personnel policy, sexual harassment shall be
defined as unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, verbal or
physical conduct of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to the conduct is made either explicitly or
implicitly a term or condition of an individual's employment or submission to
or rejection of the conduct is used as the basis for employment decisions; and/
or
         (b)   The conduct has the purpose or affect of substantially
interfering with the individual's work performances or creating intimidating,
hostile or offensive working environment.
      (2)   Sexual harassment by 1 city employee against another city employee
will not be tolerated and will be grounds for dismissal. Similarly, retaliatory
action taken against an employee who has made complaints or sexual harassment
will not be tolerated and will be grounds for dismissal.
      (3)   Any employee who feels they have been sexually harassed shall
report the incidents immediately to the department head and the City
Administrator and/or the City Attorney who shall immediately investigate all
complaints.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
   (G)   Employee at closed session. The employee will be invited to Council
closed session to discuss any and all allegations.
§ 31.30 GRIEVANCE POLICY.
   (A)   The city will deal promptly and fairly with grievances arising out of
terms and conditions of employment.
   (B)   (1)   Any employee claiming a grievance shall submit those grievances
to the employee's immediate supervisor who shall consider and examine the
grievances and attempt to resolve it to the extent of the supervisor's
authority.
      (2)   If the grievance is not satisfactorily resolved at that level, the
employee may present the grievance in writing to the City Administrator for
disposition.
   (C)   Any employee who has followed the above procedure and who feels the
dispute is still not satisfactorily resolved may present the grievance in
writing to the Council for consideration.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.31 COMPUTER USE POLICY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this policy is to protect the quality and
integrity of the city's information system and to provide employees with
standards of behavior when using the computer system.
         (a)   The system is vital to performing city functions. The underlying
goal is to further enhance the ability of employees to be effective in their
job while maintaining system security and reliability.
         (b)   Achieving this goal is a task shared by all system users. All
employees are expected to read and comply with this policy.
      (2)   Data management and protection.
         (a)   Management of files. Although large, the storage capacity of the
system does have a limit and all users are responsible for deleting outdated
files. This includes data files and e-mail messages.
         (b)   Portable files. To facilitate off-site work, appropriate files
may be copied to and from diskettes including word processing, spreadsheets and
presentation graphic files. No other files or information may be copied to or
from St. Charles computers.
         (c)   Computer files. All information developed in or introduced to a
city computer system is the property of the City of St. Charles. All
information developed by a St. Charles employee on computers outside of the
city offices, if in conjunction with their employment with the city, is the
property of the City of St. Charles.
         (d)   Virus protection. Users shall not change their system's
configuration or take other steps to defeat virus protection devices or
systems.
            1.   System users are responsible for virus protection and may
contact the City Administrator for assistance.
            2.   Users are responsible for scanning all floppy disks prior to
their use. This includes all disks brought in from home, newly purchased
software, downloaded files or software and disks from other agencies.
            3.   If a virus is detected, the user shall suspend all use of the
system computer and shall immediately contact the City Administrator or backup.
   (B)   Installation of hardware and software.
      (1)   Installations. Installing or reconfiguring a workstation may cause
unexpected data loss. Therefore, the installation of hardware or software
should be limited.
      (2)   Configuration. City computers are set up to operate in a complex
environment. Users may not change their individual workstation's setup files.
Users who believe their setup files are incorrectly configured should contact
the City Administrator.
      (3)   Licensed software.
         (a)   City employees may not duplicate licensed software. Any like
duplication may subject employees and/or the city to both civil and criminal
penalties under the U.S. Copyright Act.
         (b)   Personal software may be installed only with the approval of the
appropriate department head.
         (c)   City-owned software may not be loaded on external systems unless
the license agreement allows; the software may be used only for city business,
and with the approval of the department head.
         (d)   The City of St. Charles complies with all software copyrights
and terms of all software licenses.
      (4)   Recreational software. Recreational software (i.e. games) are
prohibited except when approved by the department head.
   (C)   Security.
      (1)   User access controls. Computer users shall identify themselves to
the system by signing on with their assigned user name. All users shall
maintain passwords, and passwords may only be shared with other persons with a
legitimate business reason to know them. Users who are away from their computer
for long periods of time (or overnight) should log-off the system to prevent
unauthorized use.
      (2)   Control of security. Users shall not add additional security to
their workstations or their files. To facilitate proper emergency shut down
procedures the City Administrator must have access to additional security.
Users who believe they have security needs beyond current standards should
contact the City Administrator. The exception to this rule is a password
protected screen saver.
      (3)   Access to data. The user's ability to view, create or modify
information files is based on standard access rights configured by the City
Administrator. These can be changed as needed. Contact your department head or
City Administrator to request changes to user access rights.
   (D)   Personal use. The city offers employees the privilege to use
computers, software, printers and other devices for personal use. Personal use
must be done on the employee's own time, however. Abuse will be cause for
discipline. At no time is an employee allowed to use the computer system for
profit or illegal use.
   (E)   E-mail.
      (1)   While electronic files that store e-mail are the city's property,
the city will not access any employees e-mail without consent unless for a
legitimate business purpose. Users may not knowingly eavesdrop or view other
user's e-mail. However, data stored may be subject to government data practices
statutes that make the text accessible to the public. Therefore, sensitive or
personal messages should no be sent via e-mail.
      (2)   E-mail use is limited to that which is business appropriate and
employees are expected to exercise good judgment when responding or forwarding
e-mail. Inappropriate use of e-mail includes, but is not limited to, forwarding
jokes of sexual nature or sexually explicit material or that a reasonable
person would find in bad taste.
      (3)   Electronic communications, including the internet, should be for
business purposes. Employees should use the same care when creating electronic
communications, as they would use with oral or other written communication.
      (4)   Existing policies regarding employee behavior apply to all
electronic communication.
   (F)   Internet.
      (1)   The primary function of the computer system is to assist in service
delivery to our residents and customers.
      (2)   Department heads will determine which employees in their
departments should have internet access and should coordinate installation with
the City Administrator.
      (3)   Internet use is limited to that which is business appropriate and
employees are expected to exercise good judgment when accessing web sites, chat
rooms and the like.
      (4)   Some examples of inappropriate sites include adult entertainment,
sexually explicit material and web sites promoting violence, terrorism or
illegal drug use.
      (5)   An employee who accesses a web site that is not appropriate should
notify his or her supervisor. Any user who witnesses another employee accessing
an inappropriate site should inform their department head.
      (6)   Users should be aware that the city, as well as individuals outside
the St. Charles organization, has the ability to track the internet sites
accessed.
      (7)   Department heads are responsible for compliance with these
guidelines as well as to arrange for appropriate training on the use of the
Internet.
      (8)   The City Administrator will assist with coordination of training
when requested.
      (9)   Any employee who has internet access and allows another employee to
use his or her PC must supervise the use of the PC.
      (10)   If employees are in high traffic areas, or have reason to believe
that other employees without supervision will use their PC, they must password
protect their PC by choosing a screen saver with a password.
   (G)   Consequence of violation. Violation of this policy may constitute just
cause for discipline up to and including discharge. Additional definitions are
attached to the end of this policy.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 31.32 MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Health and life insurance.
      (1)   The city provides to employees who are regularly scheduled for work
at least 30 hours per week a comprehensive hospital and major medical group
health insurance plan providing major medical benefits. The city pays the full
cost of single coverage for all like employees.
      (2)   If the employee requests dependent coverage, the city will pay 100%
of the employee coverage and 50% of the cost of dependent coverage. The
remaining cost is paid by deductions from the employee's paycheck.
         (a)   If any employee terminates employment with the city for any
reason, the employee may continue to participate in the group health care
program, single or family coverage at the employee's own expense, until the
employee secures new coverage or for a period of 18 months after termination.
         (b)   Employees on unpaid leaves of absence may retain insurance
coverage at their own expense.
         (c)   If the employee retires from the city at the age of 55 or older,
the employee may continue to participate in the group health care program,
single or family coverage at the employee's own expense, until the employee
secures new coverage or until the employee reaches the age of 65.
   (B)   Safety.
      (1)   The city shall at all time provide the safest working conditions
possible. Each department supervisor has the duty to establish safety
regulation and to instruct workers in accident prevention. Workers shall be
expected to adhere strictly to all safety requirements.
      (2)   Safety suggestions will be welcomed from all employees.
         (a)   When an employee is injured on the job, the employee shall
report the injury to the supervisor immediately.
         (b)   The supervisor shall first acquire medical aid for the injured
employee. Then the supervisor shall file promptly an accident report with the
City Administrator describing the full details of the accident.
   (C)   Payroll deductions.
      (1)   The city is required to deduct from employees' checks federal and
state income taxes and social security tax.
      (2)   The city serves as the collection agency and passes the money on to
the state and federal governments. The city is also required to deduct for
contribution to the Public Employees Retirement Association for eligible
employees.
      (3)   If an employee selects dependent coverage under the group health
insurance plan, the employee's share of the premium will be deducted.
      (4)   Any other deductions, unless requires by law, must be requested in
writing by the employee and will be made only at the Council's discretion.
   (D)   Public relations. Every employee shall be courteous to the public.
Favorable impressions created by courteous public relations develop citizens'
good will and support for the city as a whole.
      (1)   Employees: Must comply with all occupational safety and health
standards, rules, regulations and orders issued under the act that apply to
their own actions and conduct on the job.
      (2)   Right to refuse work: An employee acting in good faith has the
right to refuse to perform tasks or work under conditions which the employee
reasonably believes present an imminent danger of death or serious physical
harm to the employee.
(Ord. 491, passed 4-22-2003)
CHAPTER 32: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
32.01   Policy and purpose
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.05   Local emergencies
   
32.06   Emergency regulations
   
32.07   Emergency management a government function
   
32.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 32.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with those
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. 
      (1)   The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of nature or from
sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material mishaps.
      (2)   These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred
to as CIVIL DEFENSE functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency
management organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the
City Emergency Management Director, called the Director.
   (B)   The Director shall be appointed by the City Council for an indefinite
term and may be removed by the Council at any time. The Director shall serve
with a salary as established by the City Council and shall be paid his or her
necessary expenses.
   (C)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Council.
§ 32.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for
the emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the
Council for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be
the duty of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city
to perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved.
      (2)   The plan may be modified in like manner from time to time. The
Director shall coordinate the emergency management activities of the city to
the end that they shall be consistent and fully integrated with the emergency
plans of the federal government and the state and correlated with emergency
plans of the county and other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   (1)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable.
      (2)   The officers and personnel of all city departments and agencies
shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and extend services
and facilities to the city's emergency management organization and to the
Governor upon request.
      (3)   The head of each department or agency in cooperation with the
Director shall be responsible for the planning and programming of those
emergency activities as will involve the utilization of the facilities of the
department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of 3 days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the Deputy Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the Deputy Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at
the Deputy Clerk's office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the
city hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected
area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the
Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   (1)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions
of M.S. § 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster.
      (2)   The city may exercise these powers in the light of the exigencies
of the disaster without compliance with the time-consuming procedures and
formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and materials,
limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation and expenditure of public
funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions, publication
of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules, provisions relating
to low bids and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
CHAPTER 33: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Organizations
   
33.01   Ambulance Association
   
33.02   Planning Commission
Police Department
   
33.15   General
   
33.16   Chief of Police
   
33.17   Duties of police
   
33.18   Police reserve
Fire Department
   
33.30   General
   
33.31   Selection
   
33.32   Duties of Chief
   
33.33   Records
   
33.34   Fees
   
33.35   Assistant Chief
   
33.36   Firefighters
   
33.37   Relief association
   
33.38   Interference with Department
   
33.39   By-laws
GENERAL ORGANIZATIONS
§ 33.01 AMBULANCE ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   Volunteer ambulance association. There is hereby in this city a
Volunteer Ambulance Association. This organization shall operate as a separate
association under the jurisdiction of the Council.
   (B)   Officers. The following, and other officers as the Association shall
determine necessary shall be the Association's elected officers.
      (1)   Director. The Director shall preside at the regular meetings,
special meetings and meetings of the Board of Directors. The Director shall
coordinate all activities of the Association and assign duties to the members
if necessary.
      (2)   Assistant Director. The Assistant Director shall fulfill the duties
of the Director in the Director's absence or upon the Director's request.
      (3)   Secretary-Treasurer. The Secretary-Treasurer shall keep all records
of all proceedings, regular meetings, special meetings and Board of Director
meetings. The Secretary-Treasurer shall keep an account of all money received
and distributed by the Association. A committee of 3 members appointed by the
Board of Directors will audit the financial records of the Association and
report to the Association membership at its February meeting.
      (4)   Training Officer. The Training Officer shall coordinate all
training activities of the Association.
   (C)   Board of Directors. The Board of Directors shall be composed of the
Association's elected officers.
   (D)   By-laws. The Ambulance Association shall adopt and present to the
Council a set of by-laws, which shall govern the Association's operation. The
Council shall approve or modify the by-laws by resolution and, upon adoption,
they shall carry the force and effect of law.
   (E)   Part-time employees. The members of the St. Charles Volunteer
Ambulance Association are part-time employees of the City of St. Charles
subject to the rules and regulations set forth in the St. Charles Employment
Policy.
   (F)   Employment policy. The members of the St. Charles Volunteer Ambulance
Association are part-time employees of the City of St. Charles subject to the
rules and regulations set forth in the St. Charles Employment Policy.
(1987 Code, §§ 204.01, 204.02, 204.03, 204.04 and 204.05) (Am. Ord. 437, passed
9-8-1998)
Cross-reference:
   For St. Charles Employment Policy, see
Ch. 31
§ 33.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Commission. The Commission shall be a city planning agency authorized
by M.S. § 462.354, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Composition.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of 5 members. All 5 members
shall be appointed by the Council, and at least 1 appointee must be a Council
member.
      (2)   Board members may be removed by a 4/5 vote of the Council.
      (3)   Members shall be appointed for terms of 3 years. Appointees shall
hold offices until their successors are appointed and qualified. The terms of
ex-officio members shall correspond to their respective official tenures.
      (4)   Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Council for the
unexpired portion of the term. Upon appointment to the Commission each member
shall take an oath to faithfully perform the duties of the office.
   (C)   Meetings.
      (1)   Organization. The Commission shall elect someone as chair from
among the appointed members for a term of 1 year. The Commission may create and
fill other offices as it may determine. The City Administrator shall act as
secretary of the Planning Commission, but shall not be a member.
      (2)   Meetings and reports. The Commission shall hold at least 1 regular
meeting each month if there is business that needs to take place. It shall
adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a public record of
its resolutions, transactions and findings.
   (D)   Zoning plan. The Planning Commission, upon instructions by the
Council, shall prepare a revised zoning plan for the city. Before recommending
the plan to the Council, the Commission shall hold at least 1 public hearing
thereon after published notice.
   (E)   Plats.
      (1)   Filing required. Every proposed plat of land within the city or
within 2 miles of the city limits and not within a town which itself requires
the approval of the plats, shall be submitted to the Council before being
filed. No plat of land shall be filed unless and until first approved by the
Council.
      (2)   Penalty. Any person who violates this provision or who sells land
or offers land for sale or contracts for the sale of land by reference to or by
other use of any plat before the plat has been approved by the Planning
Commission and the Council in accordance with the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Before acting on the plat the Council shall
submit the plat to the Planning Commission for its recommendations.
(1987 Code, §§ 205.01, 205.02, 205.03, 205.04 and 205.05) (Am. Ord. 454, passed
1-9-2000; Am. Ord. 651, passed 3-14-2023)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.15 GENERAL.
   The Department head shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of
additional police officers, together with their ranks and titles, shall be
determined by the Council. The compensation to be paid to Department members
shall be fixed by the Council.
(1987 Code, § 202.01)
§ 33.16 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members.
   (B)   The Chief shall conduct the Department and act according to the
directions given by the Council and pursuant to any job descriptions
promulgated by the Council.
   (C)   The Chief shall report administratively to the City Administrator.
Every member of the Department subordinate to the Chief shall obey the
instructions of the Chief and any superior officer.
   (D)   The Chief and the Council shall also prepare and promulgate an
official policy for the regular operation of the Department.
   (E)   The Chief and police officers shall follow this official policy.
(1987 Code, § 202.02)
§ 33.17 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   (A)   Department members shall enforce the laws applicable to the city,
bring violators before the district court, and make complaints for offenses
coming to their knowledge. Department members shall serve processes on behalf
of the city and shall serve notices as may be required by the Council or other
authority.
   (B)   When the city is not a party to the proceedings involved in the
process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as provided by M.S.
§ 157.12, as it may be amended from time to time, for town constables. All fees
shall be paid into the city treasury.
   (C)   The Council, along with the Chief, shall promulgate job descriptions
for the Chief and police officers, and they shall be guided by these
descriptions in performing their duties.
(1987 Code, § 202.03)
§ 33.18 POLICE RESERVE.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   The City Council has the power to create within the Police
Department a police reserve unit, which shall consist of a number of volunteer
members as the Council deems necessary.
      (2)   The police reserve shall be under the control and supervision of
the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
      (3)   Members shall be appointed by the Chief and may be removed by it at
any time.
      (4)   They shall serve under the direction of the superior officers of
the regular police force and others as the Chief may appoint from their own
number.
   (B)   Duties. When assigned to duty by the Chief, each member shall perform
duties as described by the Chief.
   (C)   Oath, insignia. Each police reserve member shall take the oath
prescribed by M.S. § 12.43, as it may be amended from time to time. Each member
shall be issued a badge, suitable items of clothing and insignia or evidence of
identification as the Chief may prescribe. Upon termination of membership, a
member shall surrender to the Department all city property.
   (D)   Personnel rules. Personnel ordinances and rules applicable to regular
employees of the city do not apply to police reserve members, but each member
shall be covered as a city employee under the workers' compensation insurance
policy of the city.
   (E)   Other restrictions.
      (1)   No member of the police reserve shall exercise any authority over
the persons or property of others without displaying identification as a
member. No person except a police reserve member shall use identification or
otherwise represent himself or herself to be a member of the police reserve.
      (2)   No police reserve member shall carry any firearm while on duty.
Members of the police reserve shall serve with compensation as determined by
the Council.
(1987 Code, § 202.04)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 33.30 GENERAL.
   There is hereby in this city a Volunteer Fire Department consisting of a
Chief, an Assistant Chief and other officers as the Department shall determine
are necessary.
(1987 Code, § 203.01)
§ 33.31 SELECTION.
   (A)   The Chief and other officers shall be elected annually by the
Department members, subject to confirmation by the Council. Each shall hold
office for 1 year and until a successor has been duly elected, except that the
Chief may be removed by the Council for cause after a public hearing.
   (B)   Firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the
Department members, subject to confirmation by the Council.
   (C)   Firefighters shall continue as Department members during good behavior
and may be removed by the Council only for cause after a public hearing.
(1987 Code, § 203.02)
§ 33.32 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall have control of all firefighting apparatus and shall
be solely responsible for its care and condition.
   (B)   The Chief shall make an annual report to the Council at its September
meeting, including the equipment condition and department needs.
   (C)   The Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations at any
Council meeting.
   (D)   The Chief shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline
of the Department members, and may suspend any member for refusal or neglect to
obey orders pending final action by the Council on that members' discharge or
retention.
   (E)   The Chief shall report each suspension of a Fire Department member at
the first meeting of the Council following the suspension.
   (F)   The Chief shall be charged with the enforcement of all parts of this
code aimed at fire prevention.
   (G)   The Chief shall have full authority to inspect all premises and to
cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
(1987 Code, § 203.03)
§ 33.33 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all
fires.
   (B)   This record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire,
cause of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and/or tenant,
purpose for which building was occupied, value of building and contents,
members of the Department responding to the alarm and other information as the
Chief may deem advisable or as may be required from time to time by the Council
or State Fire Marshal or Commissioner of Public Safety.
(1987 Code, § 203.04)
§ 33.34 FEES.
   The St. Charles Volunteer Fire Department, for fire calls within the City of
St. Charles and within the fire contracted areas, will charge the property
owner a fee for services for the firefighting and rescue equipment, with fees
to be established by Council resolution.
(Ord. 419, passed 9-12-1996)
§ 33.35 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all functions and exercise all authority of the Chief.
(1987 Code, § 203.06)
§ 33.36 FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be able-bodied and not less
than 18 years of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only
after a 6-month probationary period.
   (B)   The Council may require that each candidate, before becoming a
probationary firefighter, satisfy certain minimum requirements of height,
weight, education and any other qualifications, which may be specified by the
Council. Each candidate must satisfactorily pass a physical examination.
(1987 Code, § 203.07)
§ 33.37 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department may organize a Firefighters'
Relief Association in accordance with M.S. Chapter 69, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(1987 Code, § 203.08)
§ 33.38 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall give or make, or cause, to be given or made, a fire alarm
without probable cause, or neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of
the Chief at a fire, or interfere with the Fire Department in the discharge of
its duties.
(1987 Code, § 203.09)
§ 33.39 BY-LAWS.
   The Fire Department shall adopt and present to the Council a set of by-laws
which shall govern the operation and policies of the Fire Department. The
Council shall approve or modify the by-laws by resolution and, upon adoption,
they shall carry the force and effect of law.
(1987 Code, § 203.10)
CHAPTER 34: FEES AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
   
34.01   Administrative schedule of fees
§ 34.01 ADMINISTRATIVE SCHEDULE OF FEES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically stated in State of Local Laws, the
following fees are established and deemed appropriate for use by the Chief
Administrative Official of the City of St. Charles.
Copy Machine
Interoffice                                    $.05 per copy
General public                                 $.25 per copy
Faxes
Interoffice                                    $.25 per page
General public                                 $1 per page
Maps
Size: 1 inch equals 800 feet                   $3
Size: 1 inch equals 400 feet                   $5
Size: 1 inch equals 200 feet                   $20
Books and Manuals
Comprehensive plan                             $25 per copy
City budget documents                          $25 per copy
Capital improvement plan                       $10 per copy
Zoning ordinance                               $10 per copy
Subdivision regulations                        $10 per copy
City Charter                                   $10 per copy
Police/accident reports                        $5 per copy
Digital media copy (DVD/CD)                    $30 per initial copy
   Additional copy of DVD/CD                $5 per additional copy
Zoning and Subdivisions
Conditional use permit; home occupation        $250
permit; variance and zoning amendments
Preliminary plat application
   A)   Application without prior sketch $925
   B)   Application with prior sketch pla$675
   C)   Plus each lot in subdivision     $25
   D)   Security deposit                 $3,000
Final plat application
   A)   Application                      $925
   B)   Each lot in subdivision          $25
   C)   Security deposit                 $3,000
Minor subdivision
   A)   Application                      $250
   B)   Security deposit                 $500
Subdivision variance (per project)
   A)   Application                      $250
   B)   Security deposit                 $500
Sketch plan                                     
   A)   Application                      $250
   B)   Security deposit                 $1,000
City Day Labor and Equipment - Per Hour
Day labor per person (minimum 1 hour)          $100
Day labor per person (nights/weekends)         $140
Bulk water rate (per project)
   Base rate                                $20
   Per 1,000 gallons (minimum 1,000 gallons)$5
Equipment: pickup, water tap                   $75 per hour
Equipment: dump truck, flatbed, tractor        $100 per hour
Equipment: grader, loader, sweeper, boom       $120 per hour
truck, digger derrick
City Storage Per Day
Outdoor - per 200 sq. ft. (minimum 200 sq.     $25
ft.)
Indoor - per 200 sq. ft. (minimum 200 sq. ft.) $50
Goods and Materials
Goods and materials                            Cost/postage + 10%
Copperhorn                                     Cost + 10%
Meter spuds                                    Cost + 10%
Remote water meter                             Cost + 10%
Water valve extension and cover                Cost + 10%
Meter bottom                                   Cost + 10%
Sand and salt mixture                          Cost + 10%
Replacement key                                $5 + administrative expenses
Meals Per Diem
Breakfast                                      $10
Lunch                                          $15
Dinner                                         $20
Mileage
City car available                             80% 2025 IRS rate
City car unavailable                           2025 IRS rate
Pet License (2-year)
Regular license fee                            $20
Neutered/spayed                                $10
Late fee                                       $15
Multiple pet permit                            $20
Replacement tag                                $0
Chicken License (1-year)
Chicken license                                $25
Subdivision Inspection Fees
Street and utility inspection fee              $4,500 up to 15 lots
   Additional lot inspection fee (16+ lots) $300 per additional lot
Parkland Dedication Fee
Per residential lot                            $650
Per commercial/industrial acre                 $250
Hook-Up Fees
Sanitary district connection fee - single-     $2,640
family
Sanitary district connection fee - multi-      $2,115
family without individual laundry
Sanitary district connect fee - multi-family   $1,980
without garbage disposal or dishwasher
Sanitary district connect fee - multi-family
laundry facilities, without garbage disposals  $1,580
or dishwasher
Water hook-up fee                              $700
Sewer hook-up fee                              $800
Temporary/permanent electric hook-up           $50
Water and Sewer Impact Fee
Water $1,350/Sewer $2,500                      $3,850 per acre
Water Disconnection/Reconnection Fee
Water disconnection/reconnection               $50
Electrical Disconnection/Reconnection Fee
Single phase - Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m. $75
to 5:00 p.m.
Single phase - holidays and outside business   $200
hours
Three phase - Monday through Friday 8:00 a.m.  $150
to 5:00 p.m.
Three phase - holidays and outside business    $275
hours
Meter Deposit
Residential owner occupied                     $50
Residential tenant                             $75
Commercial                                     $100
Solar Application Fee
<20 kW                                         $100
20 - 39.9 kW                                   $250
Pre-application/electrical engineer review     $300
Dance Permit Fees
Dance                                          $10
Officer (4 hours)                              $250 per officer
Additional officer hours                       $60 each additional hour
Community and Pavilion Center Rental
Monday through Friday                          $25/hour ($15/hour non-profit)
   Non-profit rate                          $20/hour
Saturday through Sunday                        $200 + $20/hour
Kitchen charge (weekend only if available)     $20 ($10 paid to Senior Center)
Pavilion rental charge                         $30 per 5 hour increment
                                               $50 (7:00 a.m. to noon; noon to
Pavilion deposit charge                        5:00 p.m.; 5:00 p.m. to 10:00
                                               p.m.)
Church property rental (including deck)
   Base rate (3 hour rental)                $210
   Per additional hour                      $70
   Rental deposit                           $200
Specialty Licenses
ATV permit fee (2-year)                        $25
Building Permit Fees
                                              Fee
Value: $1 to $500                              $25
                                               $25 for the first $500 plus
Value: $501 to $2,000                          $1.75 for each additional
                                               hundred or fraction thereof, to
                                               and including $2,000
                                               $51.25 for the first $2,000 plus
Value: $2,001 to $25,000                       $4.30 for each additional
                                               thousand or fraction thereof, to
                                               and including $25,000
                                               $150.15 for the first $25,000
Value: $25,001 to $50,000                      plus $3.65 for each additional
                                               thousand or fraction thereof, to
                                               and including $50,000
                                               $241.40 for the first $50,000
Value: $50,001 to $100,000                     plus $2.45 for each additional
                                               thousand or fraction thereof, to
                                               and including $100,000
                                               $363.90 for the first $100,000
Value: $100,001 +                              plus $1.75 for each additional
                                               thousand or fraction thereof
Plan check fee                                 75% of building permit fee
State surcharge                                Valuation multiplied by .0005
Water/Sewer inspection fee                     $57
Plumbing fee                                   $50
Mechanical fee                                 $50
 
Administrative Fines/Fees
Statute/Ordinance          Description                Administrative Fine/Fee
                          Building Code violation    $50
                           (various)
                          Failure to license animals $25
                          Various offenses; animals  $25
                          Public nuisance (various)  $50
                          Snowmobile violations      $50
                          Failure to license ATV     $50
                          Garbage refuse scavenging  $25
                          Vehicle on bike path       $25
                          Loud music/party (certain  $50
                           hours)
                          Unauthorized service/meter $50
                           tampering
                          Snow parking (§           $25
                           70.10)
                          Storage of seized property $25/day - maximum of 30
                                                      days
                          Firearms storage           $5/month
                          Digital video evidence     $25
§                         Pet sanitation violation   $25
92.014
Cannabis and Lower-Potency Hemp
                          Registration               Renewal
Cannabis retailer          $500                       $1,000
Cannabis microbusiness     $250                       $1,000
Cannabis mezzobusiness     $500                       $1,000
Medical cannabis retailer  $125                       $0
Medical cannabis           $500                       $1,000
combination business
Lower-potency hemp edible  $100                       $100
retailer
Temporary cannabis event - $50                         
per day
 
   (B)   Areas not covered herein may require a fee payment which shall be
determined at the discretion of the City Administrator.
(Ord. 490, passed 12-27-2005; Am. Ord. 504, passed 12-26-2006; Am. Ord. 513,
passed 1-2-2008; Am. Ord. 527, passed 7-14-2009; Am. Ord. 534, passed 1-4-2010;
Am. Ord. 536, passed 3-9-2010; Am. Ord. 542, passed 1-3-2011; Am. Ord. 551,
passed 2-14-2012; Am. Ord. 560, passed 1-8-2013; Am. Ord. 567, passed 12-10-
2013; Am. Ord. 575, passed 12-23-2014; Am. Ord. 583, passed 1-12-2016; Am. Ord.
591, passed 12-13-2016; Am. Ord. 598, passed 1-23-2018; Am. Ord. 607, passed 1-
8-2019; Am. Ord. 615, passed 1-2-2020; Am. Ord. 626, passed 8-25-2020; Am. Ord.
629, passed 12-22-2020; Am. Ord. 632, passed 5-26-2021; Am. Ord. 653, passed 4-
11-2023; Am. Ord. 658, passed 12-12-2023; Am. Ord. 659, passed 2-13-2024; Am.
Ord. 665, passed 11-12-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PUBLIC WORKS PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   RECYCLING, GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
54.   ELECTRICITY
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PUBLIC WORKS PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Departments established
   
50.02   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
50.03   Applications for service
   
50.04   Meters
   
50.05   Charges for service connections
   
50.06   Account, billing and collecting
   
50.07   Winter disconnect
   
50.08   Protection of public and city
   
50.09   Water and sewer access charge
   
50.10   Storm water drainage; storm sewer use
 
   
50.98   Violations
§ 50.01 DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   There are hereby established the following departments for furnishing
utilities services:
      (1)   Water Department;
      (2)   Sewer Department; and
      (3)   Electrical Department.
   (B)   Each department shall be under the supervision of the Public Works
Superintendent. These departments shall be responsible for the management,
maintenance, care and operation of its respective area.
(1987 Code, § 301.01)
§ 50.02 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any public utility service installation
connected to the city public utility system except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(1987 Code, § 301.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for service and owner-customer responsibility.
      (1)   Application for water, sewer and electric utility service shall be
made to the City of St. Charles on forms prescribed by the city and furnished
by the city.
      (2)   A separate application for utility service may be required for each
class of service to an applicant at a separate address or location.
      (3)   Every applicant for utility service from the city, and every owner
of property for which application is made, shall be deemed by application to
consent to all ordinances, rules, regulations and policies of the city relating
to the municipal water, sewer, and electric systems.
      (4)   Application for service and establishment of a utility account may
be made by the property owner, the owner’s representative, or the tenant of a
commercial property, unless provided herein. Tenants of residential, multi-unit
buildings with separate metering may apply for services if the owner or owner’s
representative gives written permission and agrees to continue to provide
utility services to all unoccupied units between tenant occupancies, if any
unit in the building is occupied.
   (B)   Application for service installation. Application for a service
installation shall be made by the property owner or by the owner’s
representative. The property owner shall pay the city the fees or deposit
required for the service connection installation as provided in this chapter
when making application.
   (C)   Conditions of service.
      (1)   The utility service supplied by the city is supplied upon the
express condition that the product becomes the customer’s property after it
passes the water main, sewer main or electrical primary, and the city shall not
in any event be liable for loss or damage to any person or property, resulting
directly or indirectly from the use, misuse or presence of the utility service
on the customer’s premises, or elsewhere, after it passes the point of delivery
to the customer. Each of the parties shall hold the other free and harmless of
and from all liability, damages, actions and causes of action caused by or
through the ownership, maintenance or operation of its utility property and
equipment, and the liability division point shall be the point of delivery as
herein defined or as stated in a specific contract between city and customer.
      (2)   Customers are responsible for securing information from the city
pertaining to service availability at a specific location. The city shall be
notified of the service connections and metering equipment. The customer is
advised to secure this information prior to installation of interior wiring to
assure service at a mutually agreeable time and location.
      (3)   The parties understand and agree that a signed agreement shall be
binding upon and inure to the benefits of the successors, legal representatives
and assigns of the respective parties, but no assignment by the customer of any
agreement shall be binding upon the city unless the city consents to the
assignment in writing. Any agreements are subject to the approval of the City
Council.
      (4)   The term of any signed agreement may be stated in the agreement,
and service after the term’s expiration shall be continued on a month to month
basis until terminated according to §
50.06(G), unless other specific cancellation or continuation stipulations are
made a part of the signed agreement.
(1987 Code, § 301.03) (Am. Ord. 639, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 50.04 METERS.
   (A)   Meters required.
      (1)   Except for extinguishing fires, no person other than an authorized
city employee shall use water from the city water supply system or permit water
to be drawn unless the water passes through a meter supplied or approved by the
city.
      (2)   No person not authorized by the Public Works Superintendent shall
connect, disconnect, take apart or in any manner change or interfere with any
meter or its use.
   (B)   Installation cost. Five-eighths-inch meters shall be installed by
plumbers at customer’s expense at cost plus 10%; meters larger than 5/8-inch
shall be billed to the customer at cost plus 10%. Each property owner shall
additionally pay a connection fee per installed meter as stated in §
50.05 below.
   (C)   Maintenance.
      (1)   The city shall maintain and repair at its expense any meter that
has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace it if
necessary.
      (2)   Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act or neglect of
the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, the city expense shall be a
charge against and collected from the consumer, and service may be discontinued
until the cause is corrected and the amount charged is paid.
   (D)   Complaints; meter testing.
      (1)   When a customer complains that the bill for any past water service
period is excessive, the customer may have the meter reread on request. If the
customer remains dissatisfied, the customer may, upon written request and a
deposit of at least $50, have the meter tested. If the meter is found to be
accurate within 5% of the water consumed, the actual cost of the test will be
charged to the customer, and the deposit shall be applied to this charge. If
the meter is found not accurate, a new meter shall be installed and the bill
shall be adjusted accordingly. An adjustment shall not extend back more than 1
billing period from the date of the written request.
      (2)   Upon written request and the deposit of at least $50 by a customer,
the city shall test the electric meter serving the customer, but tests need not
be made more than once in 12 months.
         (a)   The city will notify the customer in advance of the time and
date of the test so the customer, or the customer's representative, may be
present when the meter is tested. Unless the meter needs to be sent in to be
tested.
         (b)   If the meter is found accurate within 2%, the actual cost of the
meter test will be charged to the customer and the deposit shall be applied to
this charge.
         (c)   If the meter is found not accurate within 2%, the city will pay
for the test. The test results will be given or mailed to the customer within a
reasonable time after completion.
         (d)   All billing adjustments based on meter testing results shall be
in accordance with rates in effect at the time of the error. The adjustment
shall not extend back more than 1 month from the date of the written request.
   (E)   Meters property of city. Meters shall be city property and may be
removed or replaced as to size and type when deemed necessary.
   (F)   Meter reading and inspection. Authorized meter readers shall have free
access at reasonable hours of the day to all parts of every building, structure
or lot connected with the city utilities to read meters and make inspections.
(1987 Code, § 301.04) (Am. Ord. 550, passed 11-22-2011; Am. Ord. 639, passed 6-
28-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Electrical service connection permit and fees.
      (1)   Connection may be made to the city electric utility only after
electrical affidavit is received by city and Electric Superintendent approves
application.
      (2)   The City Council shall adopt a schedule of fees for electrical
service connection permits from time to time.
      (3)   For electrical service connection fees, see §
54.09.
   (B)   Sewer and water service connection fees.
      (1)   The City Council shall adopt a schedule of fees for sewer and water
service connection from time to time.
      (2)   When a sewer or water connection requires installing a service line
from the main to the property line the applicant shall provide for the service
line installation in accordance with city specifications, including all costs
for installation, street repairs, curb repair, and property landscaping.
   (C)   Determination of adequacy.
      (1)   No connection to any city utility shall proceed until the Public
Works Director has determined that adequate utility service exists serving the
property, or that proper provisions for installing adequate service have been
made.
      (2)   An assessment project or bond by a contractor is required to ensure
the project will be completed. Adequacy of main service shall be determined
according to the main extension policies the Council adopts by resolution.
(1987 Code, § 301.05) (Am. Ord. 639, passed 6-28-2022)
Cross-reference:
   For definition of sewer connection, see §
52.01
§ 50.06 ACCOUNT, BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Temporary interruption of service fee (disconnect/reconnect). If a
customer or property owner requests a temporary interruption of service, a fee
of $50 per meter shall be paid in advance. The fee shall cover one disconnect
and subsequent reconnection.
   (B)   Billing. Utility service shall be billed to the party contracting for
the service.
      (1)   All municipal utilities shall be billed monthly or quarterly and a
utilities statement or statements shall be mailed by the city to each consumer.
      (2)   Statements for total water, sewer and electric charges for the
preceding billing period shall be mailed by the city to each customer no later
than three days after the beginning of the next billing period.
      (3)   The amount listed on the statement shall be due on or before the
fifteenth day of the billing period. All utilities charges shall be delinquent
if they are unpaid at the close of business on the thirtieth day following such
billing, provided, that if the thirtieth day shall fall on a Saturday, Sunday,
or legal holiday, the time shall be extended to the close of business on the
next succeeding day on which business is normally transacted. A penalty in the
amount of 10% of the delinquent amount shall be added to all delinquent
charges. If service is suspended due to delinquency it shall not be restored at
that location until any disconnect charges have been paid for each utility and
all amounts owed for service and penalties have been paid.
   (C)   Meter deposits. At the time of filing an application for utility
service, any applicant who does not have a 12-month history of payment for
utility service with the city is required to pay a meter deposit.
      (1)   The meter deposit shall be established annually per the
administrative fines and fees ordinance.
      (2)   The deposit shall be refunded after 12 consecutive months of prompt
payment or upon prior termination of service with all bills paid.
      (3)   Deposits shall bear an interest rate that will be adjusted annually
in accordance with the Department of Commerce from the date of deposit to the
date of refund.
   (D)   Interest payable.
      (1)   The rate of interest payable by the city on its security deposits
will be simple interest as established annually by the Department of Commerce
from the date of deposit or January 1, 1975, whichever is later or as otherwise
specified from time to time by appropriate state law.
      (2)   Payment of interest to the customer may be made at the time the
deposit is returned.
      (3)   The deposit shall cease to draw interest when any of the following
occur:
         (a)   The deposit is returned;
         (b)   The customer’s account becomes delinquent;
         (c)   Notice is sent to the customer’s last known address that the
deposit is no longer required; or
         (d)   Service is disconnected.
   (E)   Refund of deposits. The deposit plus interest, if any, is to be
refunded under any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Upon customer’s request after 12 consecutive months of the
customer’s bill being paid on time;
      (2)   After the customer has paid the final bill upon termination of
service; or
      (3)   If the service is discontinued and there are charges due the city
for service to the customer, the cash deposit plus interest will be applied to
the charges, and the remaining balance of the deposit plus interest, if any,
will be returned to the customer together with a statement of charges, credits
and balance. If there is a balance due or credit of less than $1, no refund or
billing shall be made.
   (F)   Shut-off for non-payment.
      (1)   (a)   The city shall endeavor to collect delinquent accounts
promptly. In any case where satisfactory arrangements for payment have not been
made, the St. Charles Utility Department may discontinue service to the
delinquent customer after the procedural requirements of division (F)(2) below
and, if applicable, the Winter Disconnect Rule, have been satisfied.
         (b)   When service to any premises has been discontinued, service
shall not be restored except upon payment of all delinquent amounts due or the
establishment of a satisfactory payment arrangement plus a fee for
disconnection and reconnection as established annually by the administrative
fines and fees ordinance.
      (2)   (a)   Service shall not be shut off under division (F)(1) above
until a mailed and a delivered notice have been given to the customer.
         (b)   The final delivered notice shall state that if payment is not
made by a certain date, the service to the premises will be shut off.
         (c)   The final notice shall clearly inform the customer of the amount
of the past due bill, the options available to the customer and shall identify
the telephone number, address and officer who will handle the customer’s
complaint.
   (G)   Collection with taxes.
      (1)   Delinquent water, sewer and electric charges shall be certified to
the City Administrator who shall prepare an assessment roll each year providing
for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective properties
served.
      (2)   The assessment roll shall be delivered to the City Council for
adoption bi-annually during the first regular meeting of July and October of
each year.
      (3)   Upon adoption, the Deputy Clerk shall certify the assessment roll
to the County Auditor for collection with taxes.
(1987 Code, § 301.06) (Am. Ord. 524, passed 4-14-2009; Am. Ord. 539, passed 10-
12-2010; Am. Ord. 550, passed 11-22-2011; Am. Ord. 639, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 50.07 WINTER DISCONNECT.
   (A)   Application; notice to residential customers. The St. Charles Utility
Department will not disconnect the utility service of a residential customer if
the disconnection affects the primary heat source for the residential unit and
if a mutually agreeable payment schedule has been established when the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The disconnection would occur during the period between October 15
and April 15;
      (2)   The customer has declared inability to pay on forms provided by the
utility;
      (3)   The household income of the customer is less than 185% of the
federal poverty level, as documented by the customer to the utility; and
      (4)   The customer's account is current for the billing period
immediately prior to October 15 or the customer has entered into a payment
schedule and is reasonably current with payments under the schedule.
   (B)   Notification. The St. Charles Utility Department will notify all
residential customers of the provisions of division (A) above.
   (C)   Notice to residential customers facing disconnection. Before
disconnecting service to a residential customer during the period between
October 15 and April 15, the St. Charles Utility Department will provide the
following information to a customer:
      (1)   A notice of proposed disconnection;
      (2)   A statement explaining the customer's rights and responsibilities;
      (3)   A list of local energy assistance providers;
      (4)   A form on which to declare inability to pay; and
      (5)   A statement explaining the available time payment plans and other
opportunities to secure continued utility service.
   (D)   Restrictions if disconnection necessary.
      (1)   (a)   If a residential customer must be involuntarily disconnected
between October 15 and April 15 for failure to comply with the provisions of
division (A) above, the disconnection must not occur on a Friday or on the day
before a holiday.
         (b)   Further, the disconnection must not occur until at least 20 days
after the notice required in division (B) above has been mailed to the customer
or 15 days after the notice has been personally delivered to the customer.
      (2)   (a)   If the customer does not respond to a disconnection notice,
the customer must not be disconnected until the utility investigates whether
the residential unit is actually occupied.
         (b)   If the unit is found to be occupied, the utility must
immediately inform the occupant of the provisions of this section. If the unit
is unoccupied, the utility must give 7-days’ written notice of the proposed
disconnection to the local energy assistance provider before making a
disconnection.
      (3)   If, prior to disconnection, a customer appeals a notice of
involuntary disconnection, the utility must not disconnect until the appeal is
resolved.
(1987 Code, § 301.07)
§ 50.08 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC AND CITY.
   (A)   The owner shall bear the costs and expenses incident to installing and
connecting the building sewer or extending water service to private property.
The owner shall indemnity the city for any loss or damage directly or
indirectly caused by the installation and connection.
   (B)   To the extent deemed necessary, the City Administrator shall establish
rules and regulations for the proper implementation of these requirements
which, when adopted by City Council resolution, shall govern installing and
connecting building sewers and extending water service to private property.
(1987 Code, § 301.08)
§ 50.09 WATER AND SEWER ACCESS CHARGE.
   (A)   Reestablishment of water and sanitary sewer utilities. Pursuant to
M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time to time, the city has previously
established a water utility and a sanitary sewer utility and authorizes the
imposition of just and reasonable charges for the use and availability of these
facilities.
   (B)   Findings and determinations.
      (1)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city
has constructed, operated and maintained a water and sanitary system (the
system). This section is adopted in further exercise of the authority and for
the same purposes.
      (2)   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and paid
for through the imposition of special assessments, the acceptance of public
improvements installed by private developers and ad valorem taxes. It is now
necessary and desirable to provide an additional method of recovering some or
all of the future costs of improving, maintaining and operating the system
through the imposition of charges as provided in this section.
   (C)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   A water access charge is established which must be paid by the
owner of a parcel of property at the time the city's public water system is
available to serve the property. The amount of this fee, computed on the basis
of the actual land area of the parcel shall be at a rate as set out in the St.
Charles fee schedule.
      (2)   A sanitary sewer access charge is established which must be paid by
the owner of a parcel of property at the time the city's sanitary sewer system
is available to serve the property.
      (3)   The amount of this fee, computed on the basis of the actual land
area of the parcel shall be in an amount as set out in the St. Charles fee
schedule.
(Ord. 479, passed 2-24-2004)
§ 50.10 STORM WATER DRAINAGE; STORM SEWER USE.
   (A)   Establishment of storm water drainage utility. Pursuant to M.S. §
444.075, as it may be amended from time to time, the city hereby establishes a
storm water drainage utility and authorizes the imposition of just and
reasonable charges for the use and availability of storm sewer facilities.
   (B)   Findings and determinations.
      (1)   In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to
promote the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city
has constructed, operated and maintained a storm sewer system (the system).
This section is adopted in further exercise of the authority and for the same
purposes.
      (2)   The system, as constructed, heretofore has been financed and paid
for through the imposition of special assessments, the acceptance of public
improvements installed by private developers and ad valorem taxes. It is now
necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of recovering some or
all of the future costs of improving, maintaining and operating the system
through the imposition of charges as provided in this section.
   (C)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   Residential customers will be billed $8.77 per month.
      (2)   Commercial customers will be billed $17.03 per month.
      (3)   Industrial customers will be billed $28.53 per month.
   (D)   Exemptions. Public street rights-of-way, city-owned properties and
unimproved, vacant parcels with no impervious surfaces are exempt from storm
water drainage charges.
   (E)   Utility fund.
      (1)   There is hereby created a storm water drainage utility fund into
which all utility charges when collected shall be placed, together with all
monies received from the sale of any equipment, facilities or products from the
utility system.
      (2)   Expenses and costs incurred by the city in the operation,
maintenance and improvement of the storm drainage utility system shall be paid
out of the fund to the extent monies exist therein.
   (F)   Establishment of tax lien. Any past due storm water drainage fees in
excess of 90 days past due on October 1 of any year may be certified to the
County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes in the following year
pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to
time. In addition, the city shall have the right to bring a civil action or to
take other legal remedies to collect unpaid charges.
(Ord. 477, passed 12-9-2003; Am. Ord. 502, passed 10-10-2006; Am. Ord. 518,
passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 573, passed 12-9-2014; Am. Ord. 581, passed 12-22-
2015; Am. Ord. 594, passed 12-12-2017; Am. Ord. 643, passed 11-22-2022)
§ 50.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Correction. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
part shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time period for satisfactory correction.
The offender shall permanently cease all violations within the time period
stated in the notice.
   (B)   Continued violations. Any person who shall continue a violation beyond
the time period for correction shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in
which any violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Liability. Any person violating any of this part's provisions shall be
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage incurred by the city due to
the violation.
   (D)   Violations. The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty
under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
(1987 Code, § 301.09) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   General regulations
   
51.02   Plumbing regulations
   
51.03   Water rates
   
51.04   Regulating non-essential water usage upon critical water deficiency
§ 51.01 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs or upon notice as provided
in §
50.06(G), for nonpayment of charges or violations of rules and regulations
affecting utility service, or to remedy leaks as described in division (D)
below.
   (B)   Supply from 1 service.
      (1)   No more than 1 dwelling or building that is not a mobile home or
manufactured home shall be supplied from 1 service connection except by special
permission of the Council.
      (2)   When 2 or more parties are supplied from 1 pipe connected to a
service main, each building or part of building separately supplied shall have
a separate stop box and a separate meter.
      (3)   Where the unit to be served is constructed pursuant to a single-
family attached provision, service may be from a single line without Council
permission provided other requirements of §§
152.40 through
152.49 are met.
   (C)   Turning on water, tapping mains. No person except an authorized city
employee shall turn on any water supply at the stop box or tap any distributing
main or pipe of the water supply system or insert a stop cock or other
appurtenance.
   (D)   Leak repair.
      (1)   The consumer/owner shall be responsible for maintaining the service
pipe from the main into the building served.
      (2)   If the consumer/owner fails to repair any leak in a service pipe
within 24-hours’ notice by the city, the city may discontinue service.
      (3)   Water service shall not be restored until $50 has been paid to the
city.
      (4)   When the water waste is great or damage is likely to result from
the leak, the city shall discontinue water service immediately, if repair is
not begun immediately after notice is given.
   (E)   Use of fire hydrant. No person other than an authorized city employee
shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the Public Works
Superintendent.
   (F)   Private water supply.
      (1)   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected
with any pump, well or tank that is connected with any other source of water
supply.
      (2)   When any like connection is found, the Public Works Superintendent
shall notify the owner and request the connection be severed. If the connection
is not severed immediately, the city shall discontinue the water service.
      (3)   Before any connection to the city system is permitted, the
Department shall ascertain that no cross connection will exist when the new
connection is made.
   (G)   Restricted hours.
      (1)   When the Council determines that a water supply shortage threatens
the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times, and hours during which city
water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning or
other specified uses.
      (2)   After publication of the resolution or personal notification, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and
any customer who does shall be charged $50 for each day of violation and the
charge shall be added to the customer's next water bill.
      (3)   If the emergency requires immediate compliance with the resolution,
the Council may deliver a copy of the resolution to each customer's premises.
      (4)   Any customer who has received a notice and thereafter uses or
permits water to be used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the
charge provided above. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of
water service.
(1987 Code, § 302.01)
§ 51.02 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Service pipes. Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend
so that there is at least 1 foot of extra length and in a manner so as to
prevent rupture by settlement.
      (1)   The service pipe shall be placed at least 7 feet below the surface
and arranged to prevent rupture by freezing, or as authorized by the Council.
      (2)   A shut-off or other stop cock with waste valve of the size and
strength required shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building and
be well protected from freezing.
      (3)   Copper tubing shall be used for all services of 2 inches or less,
unless approved by the City Engineer. Joints on copper tubing shall be as few
as possible and not more than 1 joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet
in length.
      (4)   Each joint shall be left uncovered until inspected by the city.
Every service over 2 inches shall be cast iron, unless approved by the City
Engineer. Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least 3/
4 of an inch.
   (B)   Water meter installation. Every water meter shall be installed in
accordance with the following provisions:
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The stop and waste valve shall be 12 inches above the floor;
      (2)   The bottom of the meter shall be 12 to 36 inches above the finished
floor line;
      (3)   The meter shall be not more than 12 inches horizontally from the
inside line of the basement wall unless a different position is approved by the
Utility Department;
      (4)   A suitable bracket shall be provided to support the meter in a
proper vertical position and prevent noise from vibration;
      (5)   Each meter installation shall have a stop and waste valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall more than 12 inches of pipe be
exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the stop
and waste valve. A stop and waste valve ball also be installed on the house
side of the meter. The city does require copperhorns; and
      (6)   Meter setting devices for 5/8-inch, 3/4-inch and 1-inch meters
shall be a copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the service pipe up to
and including the stop and waste valve on the building side.
   (C)   Location of stop boxes.
      (1)   Curb stop boxes shall be installed generally where desired by
property owners, but the boxes shall be placed as near as possible to the curb,
if on a street or within 1 foot of the alley line if the main is located in the
alley.
      (2)   They shall be installed at an approximate depth of 7 feet below the
established grade, or as otherwise approved, and shall be left in an accurate
vertical position when back filling is completed.
(1987 Code, § 302.02)
§ 51.03 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Base charge. Each water user shall pay a base charge of $17.56 per
month during which water service is furnished.
   (B)   Commodity charge. Each water user shall pay a commodity charge per
1,000 gallons of water use for each billing period during which water service
is furnished based on an incremental tier structure.
 
Water - Residential
Tier 1 (0 to 20,000 gallons)      $4.05/1,000 gallons
Tier 2 (20,001 to 80,000 gallons) $4.18/1,000 gallons
Tier 3 (80,001 gallons and above) $4.31/1,000 gallons
Water - Commercial/Industrial
Tier 1 (0 to 102,000 gallons)     $4.05/1,000 gallons
Tier 2 (Above 102,000 gallons)    $4.18/1,000 gallons
 
(Am. Ord. 497, passed 7-13-2006; Am. Ord. 501, passed 10-10-2006; Am. Ord. 517,
passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 531, passed 12-8-2009; Am. Ord. 540, passed 12-14-
2010; Am. Ord. 548, passed 12-13-2011; Am. Ord. 550, passed 11-22-2011; Am.
Ord. 559, passed 12-11-2012; Am. Ord. 566, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 574,
passed 12-9-2014; Am. Ord. 595, passed 12-12-2017; Am. Ord. 611, passed 12-10-
2019; Am. Ord. 628, passed 12-8-2020; Am. Ord. 635, passed 11-23-2021; Am. Ord.
641, passed 11-22-2022; Am. Ord. 656, passed 12-12-2023; Am. Ord. 666, passed
11-26-2024)
§ 51.04 REGULATING NON-ESSENTIAL WATER USAGE UPON CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes water conservation restrictions; and
the plan will be in effect at any time the Governor declares by executive order
a critical water deficiency, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CLERK. In statutory cities means the person assigned duties pursuant to
M.S. § 412.151; or the City Manager pursuant to M.S. § 412.601 - 412.751 or in
charter cities as determined by City Charter.
      DEPARTMENT. The City Water Department.
      EMERGENCY. The declaration of a critical water deficiency by the
Governor.
      IRRIGATION. The watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas, gardens,
lawns, or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation utilized for
agricultural purposes.
      NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC. The notification to the public through local
media, including interviews and issuance of news releases.
      PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER. The city or other entity that owns, manages, or
operates a public water supply, as defined in M.S. § 144.382, subdivision 4.
      RECLAIMED WATER. Water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or other
collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-entering the
natural water cycle.
      WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM. Any system which enables a user to reuse
water at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water cycle.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)    This section applies to all customers of public water suppliers
who own or control water use on any premises.
      (2)   No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water
received from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this section.
      (3)   Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented
based upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
   (D)   Declaration of critical water deficiency. Upon the declaration of a
critical water deficiency by the Governor, the public water supplier shall
immediately post notice of the emergency declaration at the usual meeting place
of the City Council, or the official city bulletin board. The city shall
provide notification to the public as quickly as possible or through
established water supply plans, emergency response plans or procedures.
   (E)   Mandatory Emergency Water Conservation Measures. Upon declaration of a
water emergency and notification to the public, the following mandatory
restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced:
      (1)   Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands, and
other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with reclaimed
water, is prohibited.
      (2)   Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas, tennis
courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized source,
including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety hazards,
is prohibited.
      (3)   The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
      (4)   Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited
from serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested
by the customer.
      (5)   Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
      (6)   The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
      (7)   The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
   (F)   Variances. The City Administrator or their designee, is authorized to
grant variances to this section where strict application of its provisions
would result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only
for reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a
variance within 5 days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to the
City Administrator. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the next City
Council meeting. The decision of the City Council is final.
   (G)   Violations.  
      (1)   Violations shall be determined and cited by the City Administrator
or his/her designee. A violator may appeal the citation within 5 days of its
issuance by submitting a written appeal to the City. The City Council shall
hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of the City
Council is final. Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence
is provided that equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A letter
from a qualified vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show proof of
equipment failure.
      (2)   Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be issued,
either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the violation
and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
      (3)   Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator shall
be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
violation and shall describe the remedy. Fines shall be added to the monthly
water bill of the owner or current occupant of the premises where the violation
occurred. The imposition of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the
city to pursue other legal remedies.
   (H)   Enforcement. The City Administrator or his/her designee is authorized
to designate city employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the
provisions of this section.
(Ord. 614, passed 1-2-2020)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sewer required
   
52.03   Private waste water disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Use of public sewers
   
52.06   Disorderly conduct
   
52.07   Powers and authority of inventors
   
52.08   Sewer rates
 
   
52.98   Violations
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning 5 feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer,
also called HOUSE CONNECTIONS.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both waste water and storm or
surface water. This type of connection is not allowed.
   DIRECTOR. The executive director of the Dover-Eyota, St. Charles Area
Sanitary District.
   DISTRICT. The Dover-Eyota, St. Charles Area Sanitary District.
   DOMESTIC OR SANITARY WASTE. The waste primarily produced by residential uses
as distinct from industrial waste.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state that will separate by
gravity from waste water by treatment in an approved pretreatment facility.
Waste water shall be considered free of floatable fat if it is properly
pretreated and the waste water does not interfere with the collection system.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the waste water treatment plant.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS.
      (1)   Any non-governmental, nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which discharges more than the equivalent of 25,000 gallons per
day of domestic or sanitary wastes and which is identified in the Standard
Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as
amended and supplemented under 1 of the following divisions:
         (a)   Division A. Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B. Mining;
         (c)   Division C. Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division D. Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; or
         (e)   Division E. Services.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, domestic or sanitary waste
shall be considered to have the following characteristics:
         (a)   BOD/5: 200 mg/l; and
         (b)   Suspended solids: 250 mg/l.
      (3)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges waste water to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants
or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or
by interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Waste water discharged by industries.
   MAY. Used to indicate permissive acts (compare with shall).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface or
groundwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The reciprocal of the logarithm of the hydrogen-ion concentration. The
hydrogen-ion concentration is the weight of hydrogen-ions, in grams, per liter
of solution. Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen-ion
concentration of 10-7.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Wastes from preparing, cooking and dispensing
food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles will be
carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public sewers
with no particle greater than 2 inches (1.27 centimeters) in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or public
utility.
   RESIDENTIAL/COMMERCIAL USERS. Users who discharge primarily domestic or
sanitary wastes as distinct from industrial users.
   SANITARY SEWER. Sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters, that are not
admitted intentionally.
   SEWAGE. Spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTE WATER.
   SEWER. Pipe or conduit that carries waste water.
   SHALL. Used to indicate mandatory acts (compare with MAY.)
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or waste water which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour concentration, or
flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection system
and/or performance of the waste water treatment works.
   STORM DRAIN. Drain or sewer for conveying water, groundwater, subsurface
water or unpolluted water from any source; sometimes called STORM SEWER.
   SUPERINTENDENT. Superintendent of waste water facilities, waste water
treatment works, water pollution control of the city, or an authorized deputy,
agent or representative, including agents of the district.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Total suspended matter that either floats on the surface
of or is suspended in water, waste water or other liquids, and that is
removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standards Methods for the
Examination of Water and Waste Water and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards and would not benefit by discharge to the sanitary sewers and
waste water treatment facilities provided.
   WASTE WATER. Spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source, it
may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes from residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTE WATER FACILITIES. Structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of the
effluent.
   WASTE WATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating waste water, industrial wastes and sludge. Sometimes called WASTE
TREATMENT PLANT or WASTE WATER TREATMENT PLANT or WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
PLANT.
   WATERCOURSE. Natural or artificial channel for the passage of water either
continuously or intermittently.
(1987 Code, § 303.01)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED.
   (A)   Unsanitary manner prohibited. No person shall place, deposit or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner, on public or private property within
the city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or
animal excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
   (B)   Discharge prohibited. No waste water or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this code, shall be discharged into any natural outlet within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city.
   (C)   Disposal prohibited. Except as hereinafter provided, no privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of waste water shall be constructed or maintained.
   (D)   Toilet facilities required.
      (1)   Providing treatment capacity is available, the owners of all
houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting on any
street, alley or right-of-way in which a public sanitary or combined sewer of
the city is now located or may in the future be located, are required to
install suitable toilet facilities at the owners' expense.
      (2)    These toilet facilities must connect directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with this code, within 90 days after official notice
to do so, provided the public sewer is within 1,000 feet of the property line.
      (3)   Unless a variance is granted by the City Council pursuant to the
criteria required for zoning ordinance variances, no private wastewater
disposal system shall be allowed on any lot served with city water. All new
construction of private wastewater disposal systems must receive City Council
approval in addition to that of the Superintendent of Public Works. The Council
may deny approval even if all other requirements are met, if the parcel
proposed for a private system is located within an area planned to be developed
with city sewer and water extensions within the next 15 years, in the City's
Comprehensive Plan or Capital Improvements Plan.
(1987 Code, § 303.02) (Am. Ord. 511, passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 546, passed 8-
23-2011 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE WASTE WATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Public sewer not available. Where a public sanitary or combined sewer
as described in §
52.02(D) above, is not available, the building sewer shall be connected to a
private waste water disposal system complying with this chapter.
   (B)   Written permission required. Before beginning construction of a
private waste water disposal system, the owner shall first obtain a written
permission signed by the Superintendent.
   (C)   Inspection.
      (1)   A private waste water disposal system shall not become effective
until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Superintendent
or Superintendent's representative.
      (2)   The Superintendent or the representative shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction, and the permit applicant shall
notify the Superintendent when the work is ready for final inspection before
any underground portions are covered.
      (3)   The inspection shall be made within 48 hours’ notice to the
Superintendent that the work is ready for final inspection.
   (D)   System requirements.
      (1)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private waste water
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the State Health
Department.
      (2)    No permission shall be given for any private waste water disposal
system employing subsurface soil absorption facilities where the lot area is
less than 2-1/2 acres, unless a variance is granted by the City Council under
the criteria as required for zoning ordinance variances.
      (3)   No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
natural outlet.
   (E)   Public sewer available. When a private system goes bad there must be a
connection to a public sewer becoming available to a property served by a
private waste water disposal system, as described in §
52.02(D) above, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this code, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
waste water disposal facilities shall be cleaned of sludge and filled with
suitable material.
   (F)   Operation and maintenance. The owner shall operate and maintain the
private waste water disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at
no expense to the city.
   (G)   Additional requirements. No statement contained in this code shall be
construed to interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by
the State Health Department or Pollution Control Agency.
(1987 Code, § 303.03) (Am. Ord. 511, passed 8-14-2007; Am. Ord. 546, passed 8-
23-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Written permission required. No unauthorized person shall uncover,
make any connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public
sewer or appurtenance thereof without first obtaining written permission from
the Superintendent.
   (B)   Classes.
      (1)   There shall be 2 classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service; and
         (b)   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or the owner's agent shall make
application on a form furnished by the city, and reviewed by the City Building
Inspector.
      (3)   The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information deemed necessary by the Superintendent, or
City Engineer.
      (4)   A permit and inspection fee for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and for an industrial wastes sewer permit shall be paid
to the city when the application is filed, and the city or Building Inspector
shall determine the fee.
   (C)   Costs. All costs and expenses incidental to installing and connecting
the building sewer shall be paid by the owner. The owner shall indemnify or
hold harmless the city against any liability directly or indirectly resulting
from installing the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate, independent sewer required.
      (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, courtyard or driveway.
      (2)   In this situation, the front building and sewer may be extended to
the rear building and the 2 considered as 1 building sewer; however, the city
does not and will not assume any obligation or responsibility for damage caused
by or resulting from any like single connection.
   (E)   Old sewers. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found to meet all requirements of this code on
examination and test by the Superintendent or a representative.
   (F)   Other requirements.
      (1)   The size, slope, alignment, building sewer construction materials
and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of pipe, jointing, testing
and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the State Building Code (M.S.
§§ 16B.59 et seq,, as they may be amended from time to time), city water system
provisions and other applicable city code provisions.
      (2)   In addition to these code provisions, the materials and procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the American Society of Testing
Material (ASTM) and Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of
Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (G)   Sewer level. When possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by a building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   Down spouts, drains and other runoff. No person shall directly connect
roof down spouts, foundation drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface
runoff or groundwater to a building sewer or indirectly connect to a public
sanitary sewer unless the connection is approved by the Superintendent for
polluted surface drainage.
   (I)   Connection regulations.
      (1)   The connection of the building sewer to the public sewer shall
conform to the Building Code, water system ordinances and other applicable city
rules and regulations, or the procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
      (2)   All like connections shall be made gastight and watertight and
verified by proper testing. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the Superintendent or a representative before
installation.
   (J)   Inspection. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify
the Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and testing shall be made under
the supervision of the Superintendent or a representative.
   (K)   Excavation.
      (1)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights to protect the public from hazard.
      (2)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in
the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(1987 Code, § 303.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   Unpolluted water or stormwater discharge prohibited.
      (1)   No unpolluted water or stormwater from any unpermitted source shall
be discharged to the public sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Except as otherwise expressly authorized in this section, no water
from any roof, surface, groundwater, sump pump, footing tile, swimming pool or
other source of natural precipitation shall be discharged into the sanitary
sewer collection system.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant or user of any
premises to direct into or allow any stormwater, groundwater, roof run-off,
pond overflow, or well water to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the
city.
      (4)   No rainspout, or other form of surface drainage and no foundation
drainage, beaver systems, or sump pump shall be connected to any substance
other than sanitary sewage discharged into any sanitary sewer except as
provided herein.
      (5)   It is unlawful for any person or residence to discharge any water
from roof, surface, drain tile, footing tiles, swimming pools, hot tubs, or
other natural precipitation into the sanitary sewer or adjoining properties.
      (6)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater,
groundwater, roof run-off, yard drainage, yard fountain, pond overflow or any
substance other than sanitary sewage into the sanitary collection system.
      (7)   Disconnections ordered.  Any person, firm or corporation having a
roof drain, surface, groundwater, sump pump, footing tile, cistern overflow
pipe, swimming pool, or any surface drain now connected and/or discharging into
the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove the same. Any
disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer shall be closed and sealed or
repaired in a manner as approved by the City Engineer or his or her
representative. All improper connections to sanitary sewers are declared public
nuisances and may be abated and the costs thereof charged against the property
as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.
      (8)   Inspections. Every person owning real estate, or contractors/
builders who are building a house within the city that does or may discharge
into the city’s sanitary sewer system, shall allow an employee of the city or
their designated representative to inspect the buildings at any time to confirm
that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary
sewer system. This requirement may also be met by having the property owner
contract with a licensed plumber to perform the inspection. The plumber must
inspect the property and any sump pump system and complete and return an
inspection form provided by the city documenting the results of the inspection
and certifying compliance with this section. All costs associated with an
inspection by a private- retained plumber shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. Any sump pump connection may be reinspected from time to time
as requested by the city.
      (9)   Two weeks to arrange inspection. Any property owner or contractor/
builder of a new home refusing to allow their property to be inspected within
14 days of the date city employees or their designated representatives are
denied admittance to the property either by phone or in person, shall
immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter provided. A surcharge
of $100 per month will be imposed and will be added to every sewer billing to
property owners who are not in compliance after a 30-day notice with this
section, and to property owners who have refused entry to city employees, or
their designees, to determine compliance. The surcharge will be added every
month, until the property is in compliance. The imposition of the surcharge
shall in no way limit the right of the city to seek an injunction in district
court ordering the property owner to discontinue the non-conforming connection
to the sanitary sewer system or from pursuing other legal remedies available.
If the city finds it necessary to obtain an administrative warrant to enter the
property for inspection due to the landowner’s lack of cooperation, the
property owner may also be charged with all costs of obtaining the warrant,
including court costs and attorney’s fees.
      (10)   Future inspections. At any future time, if the city has reason to
suspect that an illegal connection may exist in a premises, the property owner,
after written notice, shall allow city representatives to inspect the building
within 14 days, or be subject to the same surcharge and costs described above
herein.
   (B)   Sump pump requirements.
      (1)   Dwellings, including new housing construction or houses under
construction, and other buildings and structures which require, because of the
infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the like, a sump pump
system to discharge water, shall have a permanently installed discharge line to
the outside which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary sewer
collection system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for a
year-round discharge capability, to the outside of the building, connected to a
storm sewer, or discharged through the curb to the street and the city sub
drain/storm sewer system. If there is no sub drain available, the surface
discharge point shall be located no closer than four feet from the curb or as
approved by the city. It shall consist of a rigid discharge line inside the
structure, without valving or quick connections for altering the path of
discharge and, if connected to the city sub drain/storm sewer line, include a
check valve.
      (2)   A drain tile, sump basket, pump, electrical receptacle and pipe
connection to the outside may be installed in any existing building and will be
installed in new buildings with below grade structures (other than footings)
within the city, provided the design and installation complies with the
provisions of this section and passes inspection by the Building Official.
      (3)   Sump pumps will have a discharge system installed to the outside
wall of the building. The pipe attachment will be permanent fitting such as PVC
pipe with glued fittings. The discharge may extend outside of the foundation
wall with a flex hose or a permanent installation.
      (4)   Upon verified compliance with this section, the city reserves the
right to inspect the property at least yearly to verify continuing compliance
herewith.
   (C)   Additional prohibited discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged to public sewers any of the following:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any waters containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or gases
in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to
injury or interfere with any waste treatment process, constitute a hazard to
humans or animals, create a public nuisance or create any hazard in the
receiving waters of the waste water treatment plant;
      (3)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5, or having any
other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment or personnel of the waste water works; or
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities or of a size capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other interference with the
proper operation of the waste water facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage, whole blood, paunch manure,
hair and fleshings, entrails and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and
similar containers, either whole or ground by garbage grinders.
   (D)   Other permitted discharges.
      (1)   Discharge into the municipal system of substances described in this
division shall be limited to concentration or quantities which will not harm
the sewers or the waste water treatment process or equipment; will not
adversely effect the receiving stream; will not endanger lives, limb or public
property; or will not constitute a nuisance.
      (2)   The Superintendent may impose restrictions more stringent than
those in this code, if the Superintendent deems the more stringent restrictions
necessary to meet the above objectives.
      (3)   The Superintendent shall consider the quantity of subject waste in
reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers, sewer construction materials,
the waste water treatment plant and other pertinent factors.
      (4)   Variations from the restrictions listed in this section must have
the Superintendent's prior approval. Restrictions on substances discharged into
the sanitary sewer are as follows:
         (a)   Waste water temperature shall be less than or equal to 150°F
(65°C);
         (b)   Waste water shall not contain more than 25 milligrams per liter
of petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oils or products of mineral oil
origin;
         (c)   Waste water from industrial plants and commercial establishments
shall not contain floatable oils, fat or grease;
         (d)   Any garbage not properly shredded (see §
52.01 for definition of properly shredded garbage). Garbage grinders may be
connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the food preparation in kitchens for consumption on the premises or
catering service;
         (e)   When water or waste containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc,
similar objectionable or toxic substances are received in the composite waste
water at the waste water treatment works, it shall not exceed the limits
established by the Superintendent for those materials;
         (f)   Water or waste containing odor-producing substances shall not
exceed the limits established by the Superintendent;
         (g)   The half-life or concentration radioactive wastes or isotopes
shall not exceed limits established by the Superintendent in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         (h)   Slugs shall not be allowed;
         (i)   Water or waste containing substances not amenable to treatment
or reduction by the waste water treatment processes employed shall not be
allowed;
         (j)   Water or waste which, by interaction with other water or waste
in the public sewer system, releases obnoxious gases, forms suspended solids
which interfere with the collection system or creates a condition deleterious
to structures and treatment processes shall not be allowed; and
         (k)   Waste which will cause the district to violate its national
pollutant discharge elimination system (NPDES) permit shall not be allowed.
   (E)   City/district action. If water or waste:
      (1)   Does not comply with §
52.05(D);
      (2)   Is discharged or proposed to be discharged into the public sewers;
or
      (3)   Is deemed by the Superintendent to:
         (a)   Possibly have a deleterious effect upon the waste water
facilities, processes, equipment, or receiving waters;
         (b)   Create a hazard to life; or
         (c)   Constitute a public nuisance, the city/district do any of the
following:
            1.   Reject the wastes;
            2.   Require pretreatment to any acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers;
            3.   Control the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
            4.   Require payment to cover any added cost of handling the wastes
not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (F)   Approval required. If the city/district permits the pretreatment or
equalization of waste flows, the design and installation of the plants and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city and the
district.
   (G)   Interceptors.
      (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when the
Superintendent deems them necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing either floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in §
52.05(D)(3), or any flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients.
      (2)   Interceptors shall not be required for dwelling units. All
interceptors' type and capacity shall be approved by the Superintendent and
shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
      (3)   The owner shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal
of the captured material and shall maintain records, which may be reviewed by
the Superintendent, of the dates, and means of disposal.
      (4)   Any collected materials not removed or hauled by the owner's
personnel must be removed and hauled by licensed waste disposal firms.
   (H)   Pretreatment and flow-equalizing. Where pretreatment or flow-
equalizing facilities are provided or required for water or wastes, they shall
be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner
at the owner's expense.
   (I)   Required meters.
      (1)   When required by the Superintendent, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable structure with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observing, sampling and measuring the wastes.
      (2)   The structure shall be accessible and safely located and shall be
constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Superintendent and the
executive director of the district.
      (3)   The structure shall be installed and maintained by the owner at the
owner's expense and shall be safe and accessible at all times.
   (J)   Examination methods.
      (1)   All measurements, tests and analysis water and waste
characteristics to which reference is made in this code shall be as stated in
the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Waste
Water, published by the American Public Health Association.
      (2)   Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to
be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent
and the executive director of the district.
      (3)   Reference is made to 40 C.F.R. pt. 136, Guidelines for Establishing
Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants dated October 16, 1973.
   (K)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this part shall be
construed as preventing a special agreement or arrangement between the city and
any industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city for transport.
   (L)   Federal law. Reference is made to the Federal Register, volume 38,
number 215, part III, section 128 and Federal Guidelines titled Pretreatment of
Pollutants Introduced into Publicly Owned Treatment Works as published by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, October, 1973.
(1987 Code, § 303.05) (Am. Ord. 510, passed 7-10-2007; Am. Ord. 557, passed 11-
12-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   For the definition of slug, see §
52.01
§ 52.06 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the waste water facilities.
   (B)   Any person violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charge of disorderly conduct.
(1987 Code, § 303.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INVENTORS.
   (A)   Inspection authorized. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
city/district employees bearing proper credentials and identification shall be
permitted to enter all properties to inspect, observe, measure, sample and test
in relation to community system discharge.
   (B)   Information requests. The Superintendent or an authorized employee may
request and obtain information from an industrial waste permit holder
concerning the holder's processes directly bearing on the type or source of
discharge to the waste water collection system. The permit holder may withhold
confidential information upon establishing that the information in question
might result in an advantage to competitors if made public.
   (C)   Private property.
      (1)   While performing the necessary work on private properties the
Superintendent or authorized city/district employees shall observe all safety
rules established by the company.
      (2)   The company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city/
district employees and the city/district shall indemnify the company against
loss or damage to its property by city/district employees and against liability
claims and demands for personal injury or property damage asserted against the
company and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as what
may be caused by negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe
conditions as required in §
52.05(I) above.
   (D)   Easements.
      (1)   The Superintendent and authorized city/district employees bearing
proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all private
properties through which the city/district holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the waste water facilities
lying within the easement.
      (2)   All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the easement, shall be
done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated easement
pertaining to the private property involved.
(1987 Code, § 303.07)
§ 52.08 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Residential sewer use shall be established annually by the amount of
water incurred.
   (B)   The rates for residential, commercial and industrial property are as
follows:
      (1)   For the first meter in each residential household: $17.96 base rate
per user per month;
      (2)   District charge per 1,000 gallons: $7.15; and
      (3)   City charge per 1,000 gallons: $0.366
(Am. Ord. 496, passed 7-13-2006; Am. Ord. 500, passed 10-10-2006; Am. Ord. 514,
passed 5-13-2008; Am. Ord. 519, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 532, passed 12-8-
2009; Am. Ord. 541, passed 12-14-2010; Am. Ord. 549, passed 2-13-2011; Am. Ord.
558, passed 12-11-2012; Am. Ord. 565, passed 12-10-2013; Am. Ord. 572, passed
12-9-2014; Am. Ord. 590, passed 12-13-2016; Am. Ord. 596, passed 12-12-2017;
Am. Ord. 606, passed 12-11-2018; Am. Ord. 610, passed 12-10-2019; Am. Ord. 627,
passed 12-8-2020; Am. Ord. 634, passed 11-23-2021; Am. Ord. 644, passed 11-22-
2022; Am. Ord. 657, passed 12-12-2023; Am. Ord. 667, passed 11-26-2024)
§ 52.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Any person violating any provisions of this chapter, except §
52.06, shall be served by the city/district with written notice stating the
nature of the violation and providing a reasonable time period for satisfactory
correction of the violation. The offender shall permanently cease all
violations within the stated time.
   (B)   Liability. Any person violating this chapter shall be liable to the
city/district for any expense, loss or damage incurred by city/district due to
the violation.
(1987 Code, § 303.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever shall violate any provision of this chapter for which no other
specific penalty is provided, may be punished as set forth below:
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, may be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing at least 30 days for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in such notice, permanently
cease all violations and make all necessary corrections as approved by the
city.
   (B)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be subject to
a fine of up to $1,000 and up to 90 days in jail or both. Each day in which any
such violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall also
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage incurred the city by
reason of such violation; including costs of prosecution for criminal charges
and court costs and attorney's fees for civil remedies. The city at its option
may use any other civil remedies, including but not limited to, obtaining an
injunction or bringing abatement actions to remedy a violation.
   (D)   In addition to the criminal penalties noted above, a civil surcharge
of $10 per day may be imposed by separate invoice or added to every sewer
billing mailed to property owners or to the contractor/builder of a new house
which is found not to be in compliance herein. The surcharge will be levied
daily against those properties found not to be in compliance with this chapter
until the property has been certified by the City Engineer or his or her
representative that the property is in compliance. The surcharge may be levied
against the property on the 31 day after notice of the violation has been
provided to the owner/contractor/builder. Any property found to be in violation
of this chapter a two or more times within one calendar year, may be surcharged
up to $100 per day, commencing on the day the property is found to be in
noncompliance. There shall be no grace period for bringing the system into
compliance for repeat offenders within a calendar year.
(Ord. 510, passed 7-10-2007)
CHAPTER 53: RECYCLING, GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
Recycling
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Source separation of recyclable materials
   
53.04   Collection of recyclable materials
   
53.05   Anti-scavenging
Refuse
   
53.20   Definitions
   
53.21   General regulations
   
53.22   Disposal required
   
53.23   Containers
Garbage and Rubbish
   
53.35   Definitions
   
53.36   Failure to dispose of garbage and rubbish
   
53.37   Garbage containers
   
53.38   Storage of waste and recyclable materials
   
53.39   Composting
   
53.40   Yard waste
   
53.41   General licensing requirements
   
53.42   Commercial licensing requirements
   
53.43   Residential licensing requirements
   
53.44   Requirements and restrictions
   
53.45   City collection
   
53.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Public nuisances affecting health, see §
90.16
RECYCLING
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to safeguard the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of St. Charles by regulating the storage
and disposal of waste materials and by reducing the amount of waste generated
by mandatory separation of recyclable materials.
(1987 Code, § 608.01)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Solid waste, refuse, construction debris and
materials for which there are no appropriate existing markets that will accept
these materials for recycling.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
      (1)   Materials such as newsprint, glass containers, tin containers,
aluminum containers, polyethylene terephthalate and high density polyethylene
plastic, that are separated from solid waste for the purpose of recycling.
      (2)   These materials are considered to be RECYCLABLE MATERIALS if
appropriate markets exist that will accept these recyclable materials.
   RECYCLING. The process of collecting and preparing recyclable materials and
reusing the materials in their original form or using them in manufacturing
processes that do not cause the destruction of recyclable materials in a manner
that precludes further use.
   SOURCE SEPARATION. To divide or separate out from the main body, to make
distinguishable from, to isolate, to seclude.
(1987 Code, § 608.02)
§ 53.03 SOURCE SEPARATION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   Every person within the City of St. Charles will be required to separate
recyclable materials from non-recycled materials and store those materials in a
clean and sanitary manner.
(1987 Code, § 608.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   The collection of recyclable materials shall be at least once per month by
the collector and transporter of recyclable materials designated by the St.
Charles City Council.
(1987 Code, § 608.04)
§ 53.05 ANTI-SCAVENGING.
   (A)   Ownership of the designated recyclable materials set out for
collection shall be vested in the collector and transporter of recyclable
materials designated by the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful and an offense against this section for any
person, firm or corporation other than the owner, lessee or occupant of a
residential dwelling, to pick up the materials for his or her own use.
(1987 Code, § 608.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
REFUSE
§ 53.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   REFUSE. Includes garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic solid waste including but not limited to tin cans, glass,
paper, ashes, sweepings, brush or leaves and the like.
(1987 Code, § 605.01)
§ 53.21 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is a nuisance and prohibited.
   (B)   Refuse in streets and other places. No person shall place any refuse
in any street, alley or public place or upon any private property except in
proper containers for collection. No person shall throw or deposit refuse in
any stream or other body of water.
   (C)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse in a manner so that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any public or private premises within the city.
   (D)   Burying of refuse; composting.
      (1)   No person shall bury any refuse in the city except in an approved
sanitary landfill, but leaves, grass clippings and easily biodegradable,
nonpoisonous garbage may be composted on the premises where refuse has been
accumulated.
      (2)   Refuse may be composted only in a rodent-proof structure and in an
otherwise sanitary manner and after the Council or Health Officer gives its
approval to the composting and it finds that the composting will be done in
accordance with these standards.
   (E)   Scavenging. The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty
under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
(1987 Code, § 605.02) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.22 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person shall dispose in a sanitary manner refuse that may
accumulate upon property owned or occupied by that person.
   (B)   Garbage shall be collected, or otherwise lawfully disposed of, at
least once each week.
(1987 Code, § 605.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.23 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General requirement.
      (1)   Every householder, occupant or owner of any residence and any
restaurant, industrial establishment or commercial establishment shall provide
on the premises 1 or more containers conforming to the requirements of division
(B) below to receive and contain all refuse which may accumulate between
collections.
      (2)   All normal accumulations of refuse shall be deposited in those
containers.
      (3)   Leaves, trimmings from shrubs, grass clippings, shavings and other
rubbish of similar volume and weight may be stored in closed containers not
meeting the requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Container requirements.
      (1)   All owners or occupants of dwellings, places of business or other
structures other than manufacturing or industrial processing operations shall
provide and keep on the premises containers sufficient for the storage of all
refuse accumulated between collections.
      (2)   Each container shall be watertight; have a tight fitting lid; be
impervious to insects, rodents, vermin, nonabsorbent of moisture; and shall not
exceed 30 gallons in size except as otherwise provided in this part. Refuse may
be placed in approved plastic bags outside of the required containers on
collection days only for a period of not more than 24 hours.
   (C)   Placement.
      (1)   Containers shall be stored at the rear of premises or buildings in
a manner so as to be out of view from the street in front of the premises.
      (2)   In no event shall containers be placed next to a street or curb or
otherwise located in a way so as to unreasonably interfere with the use of
adjoining property.
      (3)   Containers may be placed in the front of the dwelling or structures
after 6:00 p.m. the night prior to the regularly scheduled garbage collection
where placement will facilitate collection.
      (4)   The containers shall be removed from the front of the dwelling or
building before 9:00 p.m. of the day of the collection.
   (D)   Temporary containers. Containers of cardboard, pasteboard, paper or
other similar material shall not generally be used to contain refuse.
Containers may on collection days be placed alongside approved containers for
collection.
   (E)   Multiple dwellings and commercial structures. Structures intended for
multiple-family use and commercial structures may provide approved refuse
containers which exceed the 30-gallon size limit. Containers must have water-
tight lids; be impervious to rodents, vermin and insects; and be constructed of
metal, heavy rigid plastic or other suitable durable material.
   (F)   Industrial and manufacturing operations.
      (1)   Industrial and manufacturing operations which result in the
production of industrial waste as defined above shall provide suitable
containers for the containment and storage of industrial waste.
      (2)   Containers may be suitably adapted to the nature of the waste being
stored, but must be sufficient to conceal the waste from view and be a suitable
container to prevent spreading of the waste, and be of a materials so as to not
produce unsightly, unhealthy or hazardous conditions.
      (3)   Containers may be stored in an area that will facilitate the
manufacturing process; however, containers may not be placed in a way so as to
interfere with public rights of way or create hazardous, unsightly or unhealthy
conditions.
   (G)   Violation. Violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 605.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
§ 53.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Includes any premises where a commercial or
industrial enterprise of any kind is carried on, including restaurants and
clubs, daycare facilities, churches and schools where food is served.
   COMPOST. Includes plant materials, such as grass, leaves, straw and non-
woody plant materials stored on a person's property for the purpose of
recycling organic materials as a soil conditioner.
   GARBAGE. Includes only organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food
and decayed and spoiled food from any source.
   HAULER. Includes a collector or transporter of garbage, rubbish, recyclable
materials or yard waste.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Includes any park, trailer court, trailer camp, court,
camp site, lot, parcel, a tract of land designed, maintained or intended for
the purpose of supplying a location or accommodation for any mobile home.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING. Includes any building used for residential purposes
consisting of 3 or more residential units.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Includes, but is not limited to, tin and aluminum
cans, newspapers, corrugated cardboard and glass.
   RESIDENCE. Includes any single building of 1 to 2 dwelling units.
   RUBBISH. Includes all inorganic refuse matter, such as non-recyclable
packaging, ashes and sweepings.
   YARD WASTE. Includes leaves, grass clippings, organic garden waste or
similar non-woody plant materials.
(1987 Code, § 410.01)
§ 53.36 FAILURE TO DISPOSE OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fail to
dispose of garbage and rubbish which may accumulate upon property owned or
occupied by him or her or them in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal violation.
(1987 Code, § 410.02) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.37 GARBAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Every residence, mobile home park, multiple dwelling and commercial
establishment shall provide himself or herself with 1 or more fly tight
waterproof containers sufficient to receive all garbage in a sanitary manner
which may accumulate between the times of collection.
   (B)   Each non-disposable container shall be provided with a tight fitting
cover and shall be maintained, cleaned and kept in a state of repair which will
prevent leakage. All garbage shall be drained of surplus water and wrapped in a
manner sufficient to prevent leakage before it is placed in the containers.
(1987 Code, § 410.03)
§ 53.38 STORAGE OF WASTE AND RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   (1)   Except on scheduled collection days, garbage, rubbish, yard
waste and recyclable materials shall be stored behind the front of the building
line for the width of the property.
      (2)   Garbage, rubbish, yard waste and recyclable materials may be placed
at curbside or on the boulevard for collection by a licensed hauler during the
12-hour period prior to the day of collection.
      (3)   Any garbage cans or other containers or materials left over from
collection shall be removed from the curbside or boulevard within 12 hours
after said collection.
   (B)   Dumpsters for garbage, rubbish, yard waste and recyclable materials
used in conjunction with multiple dwellings, mobile home parks and commercial
establishments shall be stored within an enclosure with the location and design
providing a uniform appearance with the principle structure having been
approved by the city.
(1987 Code, § 410.04)
§ 53.39 COMPOSTING.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation may provide for the handling of
certain yard wastes as defined by §
53.35 above by means of composting.
   (B)   Composting shall be accomplished above ground in a controlled area
allowing for the decomposition of the material through an aerobic process
providing adequate oxygen and moisture.
   (C)   At no time shall composting create a health hazard or a nuisance to
adjoining properties.
(1987 Code, § 410.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.40 YARD WASTE.
   (A)   Except for purposes of composting under §
53.39 above, it shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
dispose of yard waste on private or public lands located in the City of St.
Charles except at the designated city compost site.
   (B)   All yard waste must be disposed of in the manner prescribed by law.
Yard waste for purposes of this section consists of all grass clippings,
leaves, twigs, tree branches and other woody and non-woody plant materials.
(1987 Code, § 410.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.41 GENERAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to haul garbage, rubbish, recyclables or
yard waste without the appropriate license issued by the city under this code,
unless the person is hauling from his or her own residence or commercial
establishment for disposal at another location with the written approval of
that property owner.
   (B)   Each license shall be applied for, issued and renewed, and may be
suspended or revoked, as provided by this chapter, and each licensee shall
comply with all applicable requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Haulers collecting yard waste, recyclables and non-recyclables or any
combination thereof from residential areas, commercial establishments, multiple
dwellings and/or mobile home parks must be licensed.
   (D)   Collection of garbage and rubbish will be provided on a weekly basis.
   (E)   Collection service priced on the basis of volume shall be provided.
All billings shall be itemized so as to show what individual charges are being
levied.
   (F)   Licensed haulers shall provide their customers on or about the first
day of each year a list of legal holidays and other dates that the hauler will
not be in operation.
   (G)   Licensed haulers shall provide a prorated discount to their customers
requesting a temporary discontinuation of their weekly pickup.
   (H)   Licenses may be suspended or revoked by the Council, after the
licensee has been given a reasonable notice and an opportunity to be heard, for
the violation of any provisions of this chapter, or for the violation of any
conditions or restrictions in the motion granting the license, or any motion
passed by the City Council, or upon failure of the licensee to comply with any
conditions, order or direction issued by the city.
   (I)   Construction waste may be disposed of by the builder, contractor or
person responsible therefore without a license or in a vehicle normally used
for that purpose provided however, that the vehicle shall be enclosed or
covered in a manner so as to prevent the scattering of debris.
   (J)   Licensed haulers may not enter any contract, agreement or obligation
with any customer that exceeds the duration of the license period.
(1987 Code, § 410.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.42 COMMERCIAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to collect garbage
from commercial establishments shall make application for the same to the City
Administrator upon a form prescribed by the city. The applicant shall set forth
the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   A list of the equipment which the applicant proposes to use in the
collection;
      (3)   The place or places to which the garbage, rubbish, yard waste and/
or recyclable materials is to be hauled; and
      (4)   The manner in which garbage, rubbish, yard waste and/or recyclable
materials is to be disposed of.
   (B)   Before a commercial license is issued, the applicant shall file with
the City Administrator evidence that the applicant has in effect public
liability insurance for the hauler's business and for all vehicles in at least
the sum of $500,000 for injury of 1 person, $1,000,000 for the injury of 2 or
more persons in the same accident and $100,000 for property damages.
   (C)   When the application is submitted, the applicant shall file with the
City Administrator a schedule of proposed rates to be charged during the
licensed period. Every licensee shall provide 30-days’ prior written
notification to the city and the licensee's customers of any change in rates to
be implemented during the licensed period.
   (D)   Before a commercial license is issued, the applicant shall pay to the
city a license fee to be established by resolution of the City Council, which
shall accompany the application.
   (E)   No commercial license issued shall be for a longer period than 1 year
and all licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year.
(1987 Code, § 410.08)
§ 53.43 RESIDENTIAL LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to collect garbage
from the residential sector shall make application for the same to the City
Administrator upon a bid form prescribed by the city. The city shall select a
single hauler to collect garbage from the residential sector based upon the
following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The list of equipment which the applicant proposes to use in the
collection;
      (3)   The place or places to which the garbage and rubbish is to be
hauled;
      (4)   The manner in which the garbage and rubbish is to be disposed of;
and
      (5)   A schedule of proposed rates to be charged during the licensed
period.
   (C)   The schedule of proposed rates to be charged during the licensed
period shall remain in effect throughout the entire licensed period. Any
proposed rate change must be approved by the City Council and shall not in any
case exceed a 5% increase per year.
   (D)   Before a residential license is issued, the applicant shall pay to the
city a license fee to be established by resolution of the City Council, which
shall accompany the application.
   (E)   No residential license issued shall be for a period longer than 5
years.
(1987 Code, § 410.09)
§ 53.44 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   All licensees shall comply with all of the following requirements and
restrictions:
   (A)   No hauler shall operate in St. Charles after 4:30 p.m. or before 7:30
a.m. of any day, and no hauler shall operate in a residential district on
Saturday, Sunday or legal holidays.
   (B)   All haulers operating on a route in a residential district shall
operate vehicles on city streets within the weight allowed by Minnesota state
statute.
   (C)   Licensees shall have covered water-tight, packer-type vehicles or in
the case of recycling, appropriate container vehicles, in good condition and
which prevent loss in transit of liquid or solid cargo. All vehicles shall be
kept clean and as free from offensive odors as possible, and shall not be
allowed to stand in any street longer than reasonably necessary to collect
garbage, rubbish, recyclable materials or yard waste.
   (D)   Persons may haul garbage, rubbish, recyclable materials or yard waste
from their own residence, multiple dwelling or commercial establishment if
hauled in containers which are water-tight on all sides and the bottom and have
tight-fitting covers on top, and if hauled in vehicles with leak-proof bodies
which do not permit the loss of cargo.
   (E)   Each vehicle for which a hauler's license is issued shall exhibit the
license in a prominent position on the vehicle.
   (F)   The City Council will have final authority in the designation of the
hauler's route and days of operation within a residential district.
   (G)   Licensees shall provide walk-up service for the elderly and disabled,
if requested.
   (H)   Licensees shall supply a toll free number for customer complaints,
service and billing questions.
   (I)   Licensees shall provide the city with all information pertaining to
the hauling of garbage and rubbish in St. Charles.
   (J)   Licensees must have all applicable licenses as required by the State
of Minnesota and Winona County.
   (K)   Licensees shall not operate on any alleys within the residential
district without first obtaining approval from the City Council.
(1987 Code, § 410.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.45 CITY COLLECTION.
   There is hereby established a City Waste Management System.
   (A)   (1)   No household garbage or refuse shall be collected or disposed of
by any household or owner of any 2-unit apartment except through the City Waste
Management System.
      (2)   No commercial or industrial garbage or refuse shall be disposed of
except by the owner thereof or by a duly licensed garbage or refuse collector.
      (3)   The existence of indoor or outdoor incinerators or burning
receptacles shall not relieve any household from disposing of household garbage
or refuse through the City Waste Management System.
   (B)   The Council shall make and establish by resolution administrative
regulations and rules that may be necessary and proper to regulate, enforce and
carry out the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The Council shall make and establish by resolution a system of
service charges for the removal and disposal of household garbage and refuse
under the City Waste Management System.
      (2)   It shall fix and declare the maximum charges, including any special
charges; and shall classify the removal and disposal according to the type of
service required and given.
   (D)   (1)   All service charges for the Waste Management System for each
household shall be entered, shown and placed on the city utility bill and be
indicated thereon as city garbage service charge.
      (2)   All service charges shall be due and payable at the City Hall. In
case service charges are not paid by the fifteenth day of the month, after the
same become due, the city shall add 10% to the amount of the service charge
bill.
   (E)   All service charges for residential household refuse service shall be
charged directly to the owner or occupant of the real estate to which service
is provided.
   (F)   (1)   In case of failure to pay this service charge after the
expiration of 10 days after the due date, written notice shall be given by mail
to the owner of the real estate for which refuse service is provided.
      (2)   After the expiration of 30 days from the date of the written
notice, service charges shall be certified to the County Auditor on October 1
of each year, with interest thereon at the rate of 6% per annum from the date
of expiration of the 30-days’ notice, to be included with the taxes against the
real estate involved and to be collected.
      (3)   The Council shall levy annually an assessment equal to the unpaid
service charges on October 1 of each year against the lot or parcel of land
involved.
      (4)   The assessments shall be so certified to the Council Auditor and
shall be collected and remitted to the City of St. Charles in the same manner
as special assessments.
   (G)   (1)   All income from the operation of the residential refuse
collection system shall be kept and maintained in a special city fund hereby
designated as the waste management fund.
      (2)   All expenses of the operation of the City Waste Management System
shall be paid from this fund.
   (H)   The garbage rate shall be established annually or as needed, by city
resolution.
(1987 Code, § 410.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this chapter for which no penalty is set out shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of
this §§
53.35 et seq. shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 410.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 54: ELECTRICITY
Section
   
54.01   Scope
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Classes of service and rates available
   
54.04   Service characteristics and connections available
   
54.05   General provisions
   
54.06   Underground service to new commercial areas
   
54.07   Underground service in new residential subdivisions
   
54.08   Service to mobile home parks
   
54.09   Extensions and connections
   
54.10   Right-of-way to customer’s premises
   
54.11   Manner of supplying service
   
54.12   Using electric service
   
54.13   Metering of customer’s service
   
54.14   Billing for service
   
54.15   Electrical rates and summary of service available
   
54.16   Clear zone policy around electrical cabinets
§ 54.01 SCOPE.
   (A)   This policy is provided by the city for present and potential
customers, industry associates and employees to govern the supplying and
utilization of electric service on a uniform basis among like customers.
   (B)   If this chapter conflicts with any special regulations applying to a
particular class, type or area of service, as stated in a contract, service
agreement, rate schedule or regulatory rule, then the special regulation will
apply.
   (C)   No city agent, representative or employee shall have the power or
authority to amend, modify, alter or waive the provisions contained herein, but
the city shall have the right to amend these standards and regulations, or to
make additional standards or regulations as it may deem necessary from time to
time.
(1987 Code, § 304.01)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APARTMENT UNIT. One of 2 or more complete and individual living units
contained in a single structure.
   COMMERCIAL SERVICE CUSTOMER.
      (1)   A business enterprise or institution taking service through a
single meter and occupying for its exclusive use any unit or units of space as
an entire building, entire floor, suite of rooms or a single room;
      (2)   A rooming house or dormitory with 10 or more rooms used as
individual sleeping quarters; or
      (3)   A nursing or retirement home which consists of separate living
quarters included in a common structure with central kitchen, dining and other
common use facilities and services.
   CUSTOMER. Any person, firm, association, institution, corporation or any
agency of the federal, state or local government, being supplied with electric
service by the city.
   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. 
      (1)   For both urban and rural areas, a house, apartment, flat, trailer
or other living quarters, including facilities for meal preparation and
sleeping, that is occupied by a person or persons constituting a distinct
household, and that uses energy for general illumination, heating or operating
household appliances.
      (2)   Residential use may be extended to include the use of electric
energy in private buildings which are adjacent to, or connected with, the
residential building, and used exclusively by the occupants of the residence
being served, but not when the adjacent or connected building is being used as
a residence by another family unit or being used for commercial purposes.
      (3)   Garage space, not in excess of that usually permitted by city
zoning regulations for single-family zones, may receive residential service,
even though the garage space may at times be rented to others.
      (4)   Any rooming house or dormitory with less than 10 rooms used as
individual sleeping quarters may be classified as a RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER.
   SINGLE BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
      (1)   A business enterprise conducting a single and distinct activity
(commercial or industrial) which is conducted under single ownership and
located on a single parcel of land;
      (2)   A business enterprise occupying more than 1 parcel of land all of
which are contiguous; and/or
      (3)   A group of business enterprises all of which are both owned and
operated for profit by the same individual (or single legal entity) and are
located on contiguous parcels of land.
(1987 Code, § 304.02)
§ 54.03 CLASSES OF SERVICE AND RATES AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Classification.
      (1)   Customers shall be classified according to how they use electric
service.
      (2)   Classification shall conform to the availability provisions
contained in the city's rate schedules.
      (3)   The available customer service and rate schedule classifications
shall be as follows:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial single-phase;
         (c)   Commercial 3-phase;
         (d)   Large power; and
         (e)   Large industrial.
      (4)   Standard retail electric rate schedules are based on exclusive use
of the city's service. None of the city's rate schedules are available for
emergency, standby or supplementary service except as may be provided by
appropriate contract and rate sheet riders.
   (B)   Service resale prohibited. Under no conditions will service be
available for resale by the customer. Service will only be offered to the
ultimate consumer, except as otherwise permitted herein where the consumer is
the occupant of a rental area where service is furnished as an undefined part
of the fixed rental fee.
   (C)   Residential service.
      (1)   Electric service for residential customers will be provided on the
standard residential rate schedules at a secondary voltage according to §
54.15, provided that any motor in excess of 5 horsepower shall not be served on
a residential service rate unless the installation has received prior approval
of the city.
      (2)   Each apartment unit will be metered separately. The applicable
standard residential rate shall apply for each unit.
      (3)   The residential service rate will apply in the general use areas of
the apartment complex such as lighting in halls, laundry facilities and garages
which are available for the direct benefit and general use of the tenants and
for the care and operations of the apartment complex.
   (D)   Commercial service.
      (1)   In multiple occupancy commercial buildings, each tenant will be
metered and billed individually by the city.
      (2)   All service for general building use will also be metered and
billed separately. Service may be secured by an owner or single lessee of a
building for use of tenants as an undefined part of the fixed rental and for
general building operation through a single meter.
      (3)   Service will be billed at the applicable commercial service rate.
      (4)   Commercial service shall be divided into single-phase and 3-phase
service. Rates for each are shown on the rate schedule in §
54.15.
   (E)   Large power service.
      (1)   A large power customer is defined to include those customers
(generally commercial, industrial or institutional) who receive service under
the city's large power schedule.
      (2)   No energy used either wholly or in part for residential purposes
shall be sold under this rate classification, except as provided in the
following:
         (a)   Section
54.03(C) (for apartment complexes);
         (b)   Where the owner/operator of a business enterprise occupies a
single residential unit in a common building with a commercial enterprise. On
all new construction after January 1, 1985, the residential unit must be wired
in a manner so as to readily permit separate metering of the residential unit
in the event the owner/operator-resident relationship changes from that
permitted above. In the event wiring modifications for separate metering shall
be at customer's expense; and
         (c)   Service may be rendered to large power customers at secondary or
primary voltage depending upon the capacity and voltage required and the
voltage and capacity available, and under the conditions stated in the
applicable rate schedules.
            1.   Metering will be at secondary voltage except that primary
voltage metering may be furnished when, at the city's option, service
conditions warrant multiple primary points of service or more than 1 secondary
voltage.
            2.   The city reserves the right to supply secondary voltage when
conditions do not warrant rendering service at primary voltage.
            3.   A customer may be required to own the transformers necessary
to supply the customer's load, and take service at primary voltage if the
customer's load is a highly fluctuating load on either a short-term (less than
a year) basis or annual basis or when the customer's load is spread out over a
large area such that service from 1 delivery point cannot be distributed at
secondary voltage, thus making it necessary for the customer to take and
distribute the service at primary voltage to various distribution load centers.
   (F)   Customer's choice of rates. If 2 or more rate schedules for the same
class of service are or become available according to the availability
provisions of the rate schedule, the customer shall have a choice of rates,
however, not more than 1 rate charge will be made within any 12-month period
for any customer.
   (G)   Assisting customers in rate selection.
      (1)   While the city will endeavor to assist the customer in choosing the
most advantageous rate schedule, either for initial or subsequent service, it
does not guarantee that the customer will be served under the most favorable
rate at all times.
      (2)   The city will not refund the difference in charges between the rate
for which service was actually billed and another rate which is or may
subsequently become available.
   (H)   Rates and provisions of service subject to change.
      (1)   The rates, terms and conditions of all service rendered by the
city, including those covered by written agreements, shall be subject to
change.
      (2)   Any changes in rate schedule shall apply to all customers served on
the schedule.
      (3)   For those customers served under written agreement, the revised
rate schedule shall become effective for the remainder of the contract term.
   (I)   Eligibility for single meter service.
      (1)   For clarification in rate applications of commercial service and
large power service where a question exists on qualification for single meter
service, this division shall determine when all service may be measured through
a single meter.
      (2)   A single business establishment will be entitled to a single
metered service in the same manner as any single business establishment if each
of the following qualifications are met:
         (a)   The customer must extend or install all interconnecting electric
facilities from a single common delivery point to serve every building or
outdoor load center requiring electric service;
         (b)   All buildings or outdoor load centers are actually a part of the
customer's business enterprise;
         (c)   If all buildings are located on property that is actually
contiguous except for intervening streets or alleys, the customer must receive
permission from controlling governmental authorities to extend and construct
electric facilities over, under and/or across the public streets or alleys; and
         (d)   Each separate building, or any part or parts of a common
building structure, used by separate business enterprises which, pursuant to
this section, are collectively served from a single metered installation as a
single business establishment shall be wired to serve all electrical loads
within each building space occupied by a separate business enterprise by a
single branch feeder circuit that can readily be converted to a separately
metered service in the event a separate business enterprise should subsequently
be sold, leased or rented for operation by a different person (or legal
entity).
            1.   In this event, all wiring modifications required for
separately metered service shall be made by either the existing or prospective
customer at his or her expense and, in no event, will the expense be the city's
responsibility.
            2.   Resale of energy or inclusion of electric energy as part of
the rental charge will not be permitted in the event of a subsequent management
change in the business enterprise due to sale or rental of any portion of the
premises previously so served from a single metered service as part of a single
business establishment.
   (J)   Temporary service.
      (1)   The city will provide temporary service in accordance with
applicable codes to be used for construction purposes for a maximum of 1 year
upon application for a permit.
      (2)   This service will only be provided on existing distribution
facilities when available or on a pole located not more than 50 feet from its
existing distribution facilities. The consumer will pay the estimated cost of
the extension less salvage of any temporary extension in excess of 50 feet in
advance of installation.
      (3)   The city reserves the right to require any customer applying for
temporary service to make a security deposit, in addition to paying the service
connection charge, in an amount equal to the estimated bill or bills for
service during the temporary service period to guarantee payment of service
bills.
(1987 Code, § 304.03)
§ 54.04 SERVICE CHARACTERISTICS AND CONNECTIONS AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Service characteristics.
      (1)   The character of electric service available to each customer shall
be at the city's option and shall be dependent upon the following:
         (a)   The service available at the proposed location;
         (b)   The size of the load; and
         (c)   The operation characteristics of the customer's equipment.
      (2)   The city's standard electric service is alternating current with a
nominal frequency of 60 HZ. Direct current service is not available.
      (3)   Only 1 service voltage will be supplied for a single metered
connection, except when an additional voltage is supplied on large power rate
schedules, special or unusual service requirements exist, and service at 1
voltage is not practical in the city's opinion.
   (B)   Secondary service connections. The service classes are stated in §
54.15.
   (C)   Special requirements and limitations.
      (1)   Any single-phase utilization device having a rated capacity in
excess of 2 Kilovolt-amperes shall not be operated at less than 208 volts
without specific approval of the city.
      (2)   Three-phase service may be provided in any instance where, in the
city's judgment, the customer's total connected load is of a size that 3-phase
service is warranted. Where 3-phase service is supplied, any single-phase load
shall be balanced on all 3 phases as closely as possible.
      (3)   Individual motors larger than 5 horsepower will not be served from
single-phase circuits except with the advance approval of the city.
      (4)   All motors installed by customers after January 1, 1986, should
have the appropriate associated capacitors installed. These capacitors will be
disconnected and connected to the electric service with a motor.
   (D)   Primary connections available. Service at primary voltage will be
available for large power loads at voltages designated by the city as the
service voltage available in the area for the size of load to be served.
   (E)   Overhead service. Generally, except as otherwise provided in the
following sections on underground services, and unless an area is specifically
designated by the city as a DESIGNATED UNDERGROUND AREA, the normal method of
customer service will be by overhead service conductors from the city's
overhead distribution system.
   (F)   Underground service. The city will install underground electric
distribution services or systems under the following conditions, provided the
service is not readily available from adequate existing city-owned overhead
facilities.
      (1)   Optional underground extensions.
         (a)   In all service areas not designated underground commercial
service areas pursuant to division (F)(2) below, and where a single or 3-phase
primary extension and separate transformers are required to serve a new large
power classification customer, the city will furnish, install, own and maintain
a 15 kV underground primary extension as a customer option to an overhead
primary service extension, provided the customer agrees to dig and backfill the
entire trench and to furnish all conduits (including riser on city-owned pole),
ducts and similar materials, in accordance with city specifications.
         (b)   In addition, the customer will be required to grant to, or
secure for the city, a suitable utility easement, at no cost to the city, for
the entire length of the underground primary extension, including the easement
for property not owned by the customer.
         (c)   The customer will also be required to provide facilities for
transformer location as noted in division (F)(2) below.
         (d)   The customer is responsible for trenching the total original
distance required to serve the customer, including all necessary crossings of
streets, other roadways and parking lots, on either public or private property.
When any improved surfaces are disturbed, the customer shall return the
surfaces to a condition at least as good as they were before being disturbed.
         (e)   The surfaces shall also comply with all applicable city code
provisions. The customer is responsible for defects or adverse surface
conditions resulting from improper backfilling and/or resurfacing of the
original trench. The city will assume maintenance responsibility for the
underground primary extension when it is properly completed.
      (2)   Required underground extensions. In any portion of the city's
electric service area with existing or potential commercial or industrial
customers, the city shall have the option to designate an area as an
underground commercial service area at any time a service request is received,
as part of its planning for future service requirements. The standard
conditions of electric service in the area will be as follows.
         (a)   For customers requiring separate transformer installations, as
determined by the city upon consideration of voltage, capacity, space
limitation or other requirements, the customer is required to provide at the
customer's expense 1 of the following:
            1.   Suitable facilities for an outdoor pad mounted transformer
installation (including a concrete pad, switches and conduits);
            2.   A suitable transformer vault for oil filled transformers; or
            3.   Equivalent arrangement necessitated by special conditions when
approved by the city.
         (b)   All conduit or duct into and/or within the customer's vault or
building as required for the city-owned primary service cable in conformance
with city specifications.
         (c)   All secondary cable and cable terminals beyond the transformer
terminals. The customer is also required to own and maintain these items.
         (d)   The city will provide the underground primary service cable
which will connect to or terminate on the primary disconnecting device
associated with the transformers installed in the space provided.
         (e)   For customers not requiring separate transformer installations,
the city will provide a secondary terminal at an accessible location on or
adjacent to the customer's property.
         (f)   The customer will provide underground secondary service cable
with terminals which will terminate on the city's secondary terminals. The
cable must be compatible in all respects with the city's distribution system.
         (g)   The city will make all final connections to its secondary
terminals.
         (h)   The city's meters may be installed, at its option, either at the
secondary terminals or at the customer's building pursuant to the provisions
for metering described in §
54.05(F) below.
         (i)   Pole mounted transformer installations will be used in an area
only at the city's option.
(1987 Code, § 304.04)
§ 54.05 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   General characteristics.
      (1)   The city shall establish the point of supply and routing for all
underground primary service extensions.
      (2)   The city must agree with the point of termination for all
underground primary service extensions.
      (3)   The length of the city's underground primary service conductors
shall be as short as practical and consistent with city's system expansion
plan.
      (4)   Only 1 set of primary service conductors with a single point of
delivery will be installed for any single metered connection.
      (5)   The portion of the city's underground primary service cable located
on the customer's premises shall be reasonably accessible for normal
maintenance, testing, repair or replacement.
      (6)   If there are any additions or revisions to buildings on the
premises, the customer shall be responsible for keeping the cable accessible.
      (7)   The underground primary service extensions owned by the city are
not confined to the exclusive use of the original customer and, at the city's
option, may be used to serve other customers.
   (B)   Ownership of transformers. Customers shall have the option of owning
the transformers (and integral parts) when service is supplied pursuant to §
54.04(F)(2) above, provided the city will generally own 1 transformer or bank
of transformers and the transformer(s) will be those served by the city's
primary service.
      (1)   When the city feels the customer's service requirements cannot be
served practically through a single transformer, more than 1 city-owned
transformer may be installed for any single metered connection.
      (2)   When separate installations are not at the city's designated single
point of delivery for each separate meter installation, the customer shall
provide all intervening primary electrical facilities beyond the point of
delivery.
      (3)   All other equipment past the point of termination of the city's
primary service cable, except metering, will be furnished by the customer or
will pay the city for the equipment at cost plus 10%.
   (C)   Primary voltage set by city.
      (1)   When the customer owns, operates and maintains the transformer
substation, the customer must accept power delivery at the primary voltage
established by the city for the area in which customer's load exists.
      (2)   This primary voltage is subject to change during the term of any
agreement as part of city's continuing program of improving service throughout
its system.
   (D)   City approval required.
      (1)   When the customer owns, installs and maintains primary service
equipment, the equipment shall be subject to city approval as to type,
arrangement and installation method.
      (2)   Ordinarily, compliance with the National Electric Code will satisfy
all installation requirements, but the customer is advised to secure city
approval before purchasing and installing equipment to assure service delivery.
   (E)   Primary voltage less than 15,000 volts.
      (1)   If the delivered primary voltage is 15,000 volts or less, the
customer will purchase cable insulated for 15,000 volts between conductors with
a suitable neutral conductor.
      (2)   The customer will purchase all equipment, including transformers,
motors, switchgear and cable.
      (3)   Upon request, the City Engineer will advise the customer on the
present and future voltage rating for any equipment that might be served
directly from the primary voltage under the agreement.
   (F)   Facilities provided by city. The city shall provide facilities
adequate to supply and meter electric energy as part of a normal installation.
If a customer desires special characteristics or facilities in excess of those
provided for standard service, facilities will be provided by the customer or,
at the city's option, furnished to the customer for an excess facilities
charge.
(1987 Code, § 304.05)
§ 54.06 UNDERGROUND SERVICE TO NEW COMMERCIAL AREAS.
   (A)   Distribution system to be used.
      (1)   For new commercial areas (such as shopping centers) where normal
adjacent public streets or alleys are not available for locating overhead
distribution facilities and where a group of customers are to be served,
service will be provided normally from an underground primary distribution
system and pad-mounted transformers.
      (2)   The primary conductors and transformers will be installed, owned
and maintained by the city.
      (3)   All trenching, conduits and/or ducts as required by the city for
primary circuits will be furnished and installed by the developer, who shall
also provide appropriate easements for the city-owned circuits therein.
      (4)   The developer shall also furnish all transformer pads.
      (5)   For transformer installations serving more than 1 customer, the
city will provide a single secondary feeder from the transformer to a single
point of distribution adjacent to or within the building as a common connection
for individual customer service entrance conductors.
   (B)   Secondary transformer. Customers who require service from a separate
transformer located adjacent to the customer's building because of size or
location will be required to provide, own and maintain all service cable beyond
the secondary transformer terminals. Secondary feeders will be for installation
in customer-owned conduit or duct.
   (C)   Businesses are individual customers. All single business enterprises
within the development will be served individually as customers.
(1987 Code, § 304.06)
§ 54.07 UNDERGROUND SERVICE IN NEW RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   The city will provide underground distribution facilities to the owner-
developer of a new residential area at the city's option, in accordance with
these service standards and under the following conditions:
   (A)   The owner-developer will be made aware of the provisions of this
section;
   (B)   The owner-developer and the city will enter into an agreement to
specify the deposit required from the developer and the refund available to
each customer permanently connected for regular service within the development;
   (C)   Normally, underground system installations shall not be available for
developments with less than 10 lots available for residential construction;
   (D)   If an underground system is made available to a development with less
than 10 lots available for residential construction, at the city's discretion
the developer shall deposit with the city 50% of the city's estimated cost of
providing the system exclusive of transformers, meter installations and
facilities used solely for street lighting purposes before construction starts;
   (E)   The customer's deposit shall be refunded in increments quarterly
pursuant to the service agreement;
   (F)   The developer shall provide all trenching for installing primary and
secondary (including street lighting) conductors. The trenching may be used
jointly with other utility service wires permitted by jurisdictional codes;
   (G)   The developer shall install, or arrange for the subsequent homeowner
to install an underground service from the city's secondary service pedestal or
transformer terminals to the residences to be served;
   (H)   The service cable shall be owned by the property owner, who shall be
responsible for its operation and maintenance;
   (I)   The developer shall provide perpetual easements as required by the
city; and
   (J)   The developer shall provide a fixed pole for street lighting according
to city specifications. The city will provide a standard street light fixture.
If a more expensive light fixture is requested by the customer, the customer
shall pay the additional cost.
(1987 Code, § 304.07)
§ 54.08 SERVICE TO MOBILE HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Service available.
      (1)   The city will furnish, own, install and maintain distribution
facilities for service to duly licensed mobile home parks under the provisions
of these service standards and the availability provisions of the applicable
rate schedules, subject to the special conditions stated in this section.
      (2)   The city will install, own, operate and maintain an underground
electric distribution system for permanent nonseasonal parks pursuant to §
54.08(B) and the following additional conditions:
         (a)   The owner or developer shall provide the trenching for all city-
owned underground circuits. The trench may be used jointly with other
underground utility service wires permitted by jurisdictional codes; and
         (b)   The owner or developer shall install, own and maintain the
underground conductors from the city's secondary pedestal or transformer
terminals to the various points of service utilization.
   (B)   General conditions. The following general conditions apply to all
mobile home park service whether overhead or underground:
      (1)   Service to each mobile home shall be provided on the appropriate
rate schedule for residential service and measured through a separate meter for
each mobile home;
      (2)   Service to buildings designated for administrative use or for
general use by the park occupants, all of which are incidental to the general
operation of the park, may be served through a single meter on the appropriate
general service rate. These buildings may include the park operator's
residence, general use laundry facilities and office;
      (3)   Service to transient (temporary) trailer sites will be assumed
temporary when service to any single trailer is for less than a single billing
period, and service is charged to the occupant as part of the rent, and this
service may be billed in 1 of the following ways when service is to the greater
of 5 sites or 20% of the total park sites:
         (a)   Included with the single general service rate; or
         (b)   At the customer's option, at separate residential rates and
billed to the park owner/operator.
      (4)   The property owner shall provide the city with all necessary
easements;
      (5)   (a)   The customer will provide a standard single or duplex
combination pedestal and meter socket device for connecting permanent customer
service facilities to each mobile home site.
         (b)   If combination meter socket, overcurrent protection and plug-in
devices are desired by the park owners, these devices may be installed at the
owner's expense.
         (c)   The city will not share in the investment or future maintenance
responsibility of these units;
      (6)   The owner/operator will install, own and maintain all service
conductors from the customer's meter to the mobile home or other points of
utilization; and
      (7)   Area or roadway lighting may be provided by the city at the
customer's option with either city ownership of poles and luminaries under the
city's standard security light service or with city-owned luminaries on the
customer's street light poles under the city's standard rates and provisions
for security light service. Either service is available under appropriate
contract.
(1987 Code, § 304.08)
§ 54.09 EXTENSIONS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permanent nonseasonal customers. The city will make overhead line
extensions of reasonable length to serve any classification of permanent,
nonseasonal customer that is located within the corporate limits of
municipality served by the city without charge when:
      (1)   The extension does not exceed 500 feet per customer;
      (2)   The investment is less than or equal to 3.5 times estimated annual
revenue; or
      (3)   If 1 of the above situations does not exist, an extension charge
pursuant to division (F) below, will be made.
   (B)   Unincorporated areas. Service to unincorporated areas is not normally
provided. The policy for any extension is the same as for incorporated areas.
   (C)   Large loads and capacities. Customer connections from transmission
line extensions and/or connections which require service capacities of at least
300 KVA will require individual consideration.
   (D)   Temporary service.
      (1)   Extensions and connections for temporary service at any location
shall be made in pursuant to §
54.03(J).
      (2)   These provisions shall also apply for line extension when the need
for reasonably permanent service has not been recommended.
   (E)   Underground extensions. Underground extensions may be made in lieu of
overhead extensions, at the customer's request, provided the underground
extension cost is not greater than the overhead extension costs; if the
underground extension cost is greater than the overhead cost, the customer may
agree in writing to pay the city the difference between the 2 costs.
   (F)   Determination of extension costs.
      (1)   When estimating the applicant's required extension charge, the city
shall calculate the costs using the nearest routing over which right-of-way is
available.
      (2)   The cost shall include all materials and supplies, including
expense, labor and those engineering and administration overhead expenses
normally applied by the city to this type of construction.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the cost of required meters and
transformers shall not be included in the line extension costs.
   (G)   Customer's guarantee to take service. Prior to the city making any
line extension under these service standards, the customer or property owner
may be required to execute a service application for at least 1-year's service.
   (H)   Extensions remain property of city. Any electric line extension made
in accordance with these service standards shall remain at all times the
property of the city, regardless of whether the extension is subject to
customer extension charges.
(1987 Code, § 304.09)
§ 54.10 RIGHT-OF-WAY TO CUSTOMER'S PREMISES.
   The customer shall grant the city, without compensation, right-of-way over
and on the customer's premises for the erection and maintenance of the
necessary poles, wires, underground cables and other appurtenances; and if
necessary, space on or in the building or premises for installing transformers,
meters and other necessary equipment; and permission for the city's authorized
agents to enter the customer's premises at all reasonable hours to inspect,
maintain, test, repair and remove the installed equipment, to read meters and
for other purposes necessary to supply electric service to any customer.
(1987 Code, § 304.10)
§ 54.11 MANNER OF SUPPLYING SERVICE.
   (A)   City liability. The city supplies electric energy upon the express
condition that it becomes the customer's property after it passes the delivery
point, and the city shall not in any event be liable for loss or damage to any
person or property resulting directly or indirectly from the use, misuse or
presence of electric energy on the customer's premises, or elsewhere after it
passes the delivery point to the customer.
   (B)   The city will supply.
      (1)   Electric service only under and pursuant to these service standards
and any modifications or additions made from time to time, and the applicable
rate schedules in effect.
      (2)   Conditions of service not covered in the rate schedules or these
service standards will require a special service agreement between the city and
the customer.
   (C)   Service interruptions.
      (1)   The city shall not be held liable for service interruptions or
changes in service characteristics due to accidents; necessary repairs and
adjustments; burnouts; fire, flood, actions of the elements; strikes, riots,
war; service limitation, curtailment or discontinuance resulting from shortages
or inadequate supply; compliance with any government order or regulation; or to
any cause beyond the city's control other than the city's willful neglect.
      (2)   The city shall use reasonable diligence to maintain continuous
service and, in event of interruption or change in service characteristics, to
restore normal service as quickly as possible.
   (D)   Disconnection for repairs.
      (1)   The city reserves the right to discontinue service for the purpose
of making repairs, betterments or extensions on any part of its lines,
machinery, plant or system, without notice to customers.
      (2)   The city will strive to restrict service disconnection to times
when it will cause the least inconvenience to the customers, and if possible,
will notify the customers in advance of disconnection.
      (3)   The city will not be held responsible or liable for any injury or
damage suffered directly or indirectly by the customer, or any agent or
employee of the customer, because notification was not given to the customer of
the service disconnection in order to make repairs, betterments or extensions.
   (E)   Construction delays.
      (1)   The city's obligation to deliver energy to the customer is subject
to securing and retaining all necessary rights, privileges, franchises and
permits, and to the city's ability to obtain or supply the necessary materials
and equipment to enable it to make the service connection to the customer.
      (2)   If the city is obstructed or delayed by the reason of strikes,
floods, fires or any other reason beyond its control, in constructing or
extending its facilities for supplying current to the customer, the city shall
not be liable to the customer for any damage or losses resulting therefrom.
      (3)   The city will make every reasonable effort to remove and overcome
the causes of delay and complete the construction or extension at the earliest
practical time.
   (F)   Landlord's consent.
      (1)   If the prospective customer is not the owner of the premises or of
the property between the prospective customer's premises and the city's lines,
the prospective customer shall obtain from the property owner the necessary
consent for the city to install and maintain on the premises and on or about
the intervening property, all poles, wires or other electrical equipment as
necessary or convenient for supplying electricity to the customer.
      (2)   The customer shall also obtain the necessary permit or permits to
allow the city's employees to cross and access the premises for the purpose of
inspecting, repairing, adjusting or removing the city's service wires, meters,
appliances or other equipment.
   (G)   Discontinuation of service.
      (1)   Service may be refused or discontinued for any of the reasons
listed below.
      (2)   Unless otherwise stated, the customer shall be allowed a reasonable
time in which to comply with the rule before service is discontinued.
      (3)   A disconnection charge pursuant to §
50.05(D) will be made when service is discontinued for any reason stated in
this division.
      (4)   Service may be refused or discontinued:
         (a)   Without notice when the utility determines a hazardous condition
exists;
         (b)   Without notice when a customer uses equipment in a manner so as
to adversely affect the utility's equipment or the utility's service to others;
         (c)   Without notice when the equipment furnished and owned by the
utility has been the object of tampering;
         (d)   Without notice when there is unauthorized use;
         (e)   For violation of and/or noncompliance with the city's policies
and standards on file at City Hall;
         (f)   For customer's failure to fulfill his or her contractual
obligations for service and/or facilities;
         (g)   For customer's failure to permit the utility reasonable access
to its equipment;
         (h)   For nonpayment of bill pursuant to §
50.06(G);
         (i)   For customer's failure to provide the utility with a deposit
pursuant to §
50.06(C); and/or
         (j)   For customer's failure to furnish service equipment, permits,
certificates and/or rights-of-way necessary to serve the customer and specified
by the utility as a condition to obtaining service, or for withdrawal or
termination of the equipment or permission.
   (H)   Insufficient reason for discontinuation of service. The following
shall not constitute sufficient cause for service refusal to a present or
prospective customer:
      (1)   Delinquency in service payment by a previous occupant of the
premises to be served;
      (2)   Failure to pay for a different type or class of public utility
service;
      (3)   Failure to pay the bill of another customer as guarantor thereof;
      (4)   Failure to pay a back bill issued in accordance with §
54.14(I); or
      (5)   Failure to pay adjusted bills based on the undercharges set forth
in §
54.14(I).
(1987 Code, § 304.11)
§ 54.12 USING ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Limitations on service.
      (1)   Electric service utilized by the customer is subject to all
applicable limitations set forth in a service application or contract in the
applicable rate schedule and the provisions of these service standards, and
must be used to not unnecessarily disturb or harm the city's system.
      (2)   Standard retail electric rate schedules are based on exclusive use
of the city's service and are not available for emergency, standby or
supplementary service except as provided by appropriate rate contract and/or
rate sheet rider.
   (B)   Resale exclusion. Electric service is furnished for customer use only,
and resale of electricity by the customer to other persons will not be
permitted.
   (C)   Permission to enter customer's premises. The customer shall grant
permission for authorized city agents to enter the customer's premises at all
reasonable hours to inspect, maintain, repair or remove the city's equipment,
or to read meters or for any other purpose relating to service.
   (D)   Notice required to discontinue service.
      (1)   If the customer is receiving service under the terms of a signed
agreement, the customer will be responsible for fulfilling the cancellation
notice requirements of the agreement.
      (2)   If a customer is not under the terms of a signed agreement and
desires to discontinue service because of removal from the premises served,
notice of the desired discontinuance shall be given to the city not less than 3
days prior to the date when service is to be continued. The city will hold the
outgoing party responsible for all electric power and energy supplied on the
premises until the notice is received by the city and the city has made the
final meter reading, provided the reading is made within 3 business days after
the date upon which the city was notified to discontinue the service.
      (3)   Service agreements are not transferable by the customer. New
occupants of the premises must apply to the city before service is rendered.
   (E)   Increase in customer's service requirements. The customer service
facilities provided by the city have a recognized capacity limit for rendering
adequate and proper service. Therefore, the customer is required to notify the
city prior to installing additional or increased capacity equipment that will
materially increase electric service requirements, so that the city has
adequate opportunity to advise the customer of the availability of additional
service and to make proper facilities revisions to handle the increased load,
if needed.
   (F)   Service connections.
      (1)   General. All service installations made by overhead wires from the
city's service pole to the delivery point on the customer's building (where the
city's service wires connect to the customer's entrance conductors) service
will be installed by the city.
         (a)   When installation of 1 or more additional poles on the
customer's private property or additional service brackets on buildings for
supporting service wires between the city's service pole and the customer's
service outlet is necessary because of obstructions, such as other buildings or
trees, for proper code clearances or when customer desires to have the service
entrance at some point not conforming with provisions in division (F)(2) below,
additional equipment will be installed, owned and maintained by the city. The
customer shall pay for the actual labor and material cost of the installation.
         (b)   Where a service connection cannot be made or the service wires
clearances cannot be adequately maintained without interference by trees or
other obstructions, the customer is responsible for providing adequate
clearance.
      (2)   Point of attachment. The attachment point of overhead service wires
to the customer's building shall be located at a point on the building most
convenient for connection to the city's service pole with due regard for the
desire to avoid crossing adjacent property.
         (a)   This service entrance and point of delivery usually will be at,
or close to, the point on customer's building nearest to the city's service
pole.
         (b)   Either before or during the construction of the customer's
building, the city will advise the customer upon request, without charge,
regarding the proper location of the supporting brackets for the service wires
and the customer's weatherproof service head for service connections.
         (c)   In case the customer's weatherproof service head is not properly
positioned, the city may refuse to install its service wires until the head is
properly positioned. The city shall determine proper positioning.
      (3)   Height of attachment.
         (a)   The attachment point of the city's overhead wires on a building
must be sufficient height to give ground clearance as required by the National
Electric Safety Code or by local or other regulatory bodies having control over
the same, but in no event shall the point be less than 10 feet from the ground
or from any platform or projection from which the wires might be reached.
         (b)   The city recommends a height of 15 feet to 25 feet, when
building height permits. If a building is not sufficiently high for connecting
the service wires with the proper clearance as required above, the owner shall
furnish and maintain an adequate supporting fixture to which the service wires
may be attached.
      (4)   Service entrances.
         (a)   All service conductors from the city's overhead service wires
into a building are to be installed by a customer at customer's expense, and
shall be carried in conduit or other approved wiring raceway or shall be
service entrance cable with approved weatherproof service head, and shall
terminate 6 inches or more above the service drop attachments to prevent
moisture from entering.
         (b)   Customer-owned service entrance conductors shall extend not less
than 30 inches outside the service head to permit proper attachment to service
drop wires.
      (5)   Service conductors. Service wires installed by the city and service
entrance wires or cable installed by the customer shall conform in size to meet
the requirements of national, state and local electrical wiring codes.
      (6)   Underground service entrances. If the customer requires or desires
an underground entrance it must be installed and maintained at customer’s own
expense, and will connect to city's secondary distribution system as follows:
         (a)   The connection shall be at an underground service pedestal (or
terminals of pad mounted transformers) to be installed by the city or to the
overhead secondary conductors on the city's pole;
         (b)   The customer shall consult with the city regarding where the
customer's service will be connected to the city's system and the manner of
installing customer facilities, if any, on the city's pole;
         (c)   If, at the city's option, installing a secondary pedestal is not
feasible and it is necessary for the customer to install a secondary riser on
the city's distribution pole, the city will reimburse the customer the
estimated expense of the new overhead service (or replacement if the equipment
is deteriorated or its capacity is inadequate) that is avoided by the
customer's underground service; and
         (d)   For primary entrances, see §
54.05(D).
      (7)   Moving or relocating of service wires or meters. If the city at a
customer's request, is required to temporarily remove or relocate its service
wires or metering equipment, the customer may be required to pay the city for
all the expense incurred by the city for the changes in its equipment.
   (G)   Customer wiring.
      (1)   Applicants for electric service must equip their premises with and
maintain all necessary wiring, including all service wires except city-owned
primary service cables where available, from and including the weatherproof
service head to the meter cabinet and to the service switch, and the service
entrance switch and cut-out-box, or the equivalent thereof, at their own cost
and expense.
      (2)   The customer shall install and maintain the wiring and other
electrical equipment on his or her premises in the condition required by
statute, this code or the National Electric Code, and shall have city approval,
as necessary to ensure proper connection and protection of the city's property,
and not interfere with service to other customers.
      (3)   City inspection and approval shall be made solely for the purpose
of ensuring proper protection for the city's property and insuring service
continuity to this customer and others, and shall not be construed to impose
any duty or liability on the city to the customer or any other person.
      (4)   When a government authority requires inspection and approval of
customer's wiring, the city shall not be required to make connection and render
service until the inspection has been made and approval has been given by the
duly designated inspector.
   (H)   Service to motors.
      (1)   The customer is responsible for obtaining from the city information
regarding capacity, voltage and other service characteristics available at the
proposed location before proceeding with purchasing and installing motors.
      (2)   Reduced voltage starters or the equivalent may be required if
across-the-line starting causes or will cause objectionable voltage fluctuation
to other customers.
      (3)   All motor installations shall comply with the provisions of the
National Electric Code as a minimum standard for proper protection and
installation.
   (I)   Customer's responsibility for city property. The customer shall be
held responsible for all damage to or loss of city property, located upon the
customer's premises, unless the damage or loss is occasioned by causes beyond
the customer's control, by the city's negligence or by any act or omission on
the part of the city or its authorized representatives.
   (J)   Customer equipment affecting service to others.
      (1)   Because of their disturbances to the service taken by other
customer's, hoists, elevators, welding machines, x-ray machines and other
equipment that intermittently uses electricity, or with a load that fluctuates
rapidly shall be installed and used so they will not adversely affect voltage
regulation or impair the city's service to other customers.
      (2)   When the equipment creates fluctuating voltage, power factor
conditions or any other disturbance detrimental to service to other customers
or to the city's use of its equipment, the customer will be required to install
and maintain at the customer's expense suitable equipment to eliminate the
detrimental effect.
      (3)   (a)   In addition to requiring the customer to install corrective
equipment as stated above, the city reserves the right to require the customer
to take electric service for the intermittent or fluctuating load through
separate transformer equipment, service and meter.
         (b)   Service taken through the additional meter will be billed
separately, at the applicable rate, including the proper minimum monthly bill
provided that the minimum bill shall be not less than $2 per KVA of transformer
capacity required to serve the equipment with service satisfactory to the
customer.
      (4)   The city does not waive its right to require customers to install
corrective equipment by requiring any customer to take service for equipment
through a separate transformer installation and meter.
      (5)   (a)   Arc welders with a rated maximum operating input current not
in excess of 20 amperes may be used by residential customers or general service
customers on the respective residential or general service rate, if the use
complies with other requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   Larger arc welders will be given service under the applicable
power rate, except that welders with a rated maximum operating input not in
excess of 7.7 KVA (160 amperes secondary) may be served on the residential
rate.
(1987 Code, § 304.12)
§ 54.13 METERING OF CUSTOMER'S SERVICE.
   (A)   Equipment ownership. The city will supply, own and maintain all meters
and metering equipment necessary to measure the electric power and energy used
by customers, unless otherwise agreed for some special service.
   (B)   Delivery points.
      (1)   The city's standard rate schedules provide that all service taken
under any rate schedule shall be delivered to only 1 delivery point, through 1
service connection and 1 meter or metering installation.
      (2)   If a customer requires service to 2 or more delivery points, then a
separate meter will be installed at the additional delivery points, and each
metering point shall be considered a separate service, requiring a separate
application, or agreement and energy used at each delivery point will be billed
separately at the applicable rate schedule.
   (C)   Additional meters.
      (1)   If a customer desires an additional meter or wiring installed for
the customer's convenience, the cost shall be charged to the customer and shall
be paid at the time of installation.
      (2)   The city will not permit additional meters (either city or customer
owned) to be installed by any customer for the purpose of sub-metering the
electricity use by some other person, firm or customer.
   (D)   Metering installations and types.
      (1)   Metering sequence.
         (a)   A meter-switch-fuse sequence is an installation where the
metering equipment is connected on the supply side of the customer's main
disconnect supplying the load to be metered.
         (b)   The meter-switch-fuse sequence arrangement shall be followed on
all secondary metering installations except where, at the city's option or to
meet requirements of the National Electrical Code, this type of installation is
not practical because of existing conditions.
      (2)   Meter location.
         (a)   Meters shall be installed so that the top of the meter shall be
between 5 feet, 6 inches and 6 feet above the floor or ground.
         (b)   Meters shall be located in a clean, dry place, free from
vibration, steam, other vapors or abnormal dust; shall not be located above any
stored supplies, pieces of household or commercial equipment, where they will
be subjected to abnormal temperatures or in a location which is hazardous for
city representatives to read or test the meters; and shall be readily
accessible at all reasonable hours.
      (3)   Outdoor self-contained metering. Outdoor metering installations are
required for all new building construction or remodeling work when service
entrance wires are changed, where service is supplied from overhead service
drops for 1 customer's use, except in business areas, or where the single-phase
load exceeds 200 amperes.
         (a)   The customer shall provide the service entrance conductors from
the customer's weatherproof service head to the customer's service switch
cabinet.
         (b)   The metering equipment is to be installed outside the building
in the service conduit or service entrance cable.
         (c)   The city will supply the meter enclosure or socket meter base,
but this enclosure or base will be installed at the customer's expense and at a
city-approved location. If the customer does not want the entrance conductor
cable on the outside of the building, then the customer shall install the
entrance conductor cable on the inside of the building and provide proper
facilities for connections to the outside of the building for the city's meter
to be installed in the service entrance conductors.
         (d)   The city will supply and install the meter, and own, maintain
and replace the meter and meter enclosure or socket meter base when necessary.
      (4)   Indoor self-contained metering.
         (a)   The service entrance conduit or cable to be installed by the
customer shall be brought into the main service panel in a continuous conduit
or cable, without any provision for disconnection or connection to any other
conduit. The length of the service entrance wire to the customer's main service
panel shall be as short as possible.
         (b)   The customer shall provide space for the city to install the
meter or meters adjacent to the entrance disconnect device. The city shall not
permit switches to be installed on the supply side of the meter where covers
cannot be sealed, thereby preventing access to the wiring.
         (c)   If the city decides present indoor metering is unsatisfactory,
the city reserves the right to install outdoor metering at its own cost and
expense.
      (5)   Instrument transformer metering installation.
         (a)   All services requiring 300 volts or more and/or all services for
a capacity over 200 amperes will be metered with instrument transformers.
         (b)   The city will install, own and maintain all metering equipment,
devises, wiring and accessories except, at the request of the city, the
customer shall provide sealable meter cabinets of sufficient size to enclose
the instrument transformers with proper clearances when the instrument
transformer metering is installed indoors.
         (c)   Furthermore, the customer must contact the city for proper
location of the metering equipment. In all cases, the enclosure for the
instrument transformers should be installed in the conduit run on the supply
side of the customer's main entrance switch or disconnect switch and fuses,
otherwise provisions of division (D)(4) above shall apply.
      (6)   Metering multiple occupancy buildings.
         (a)   The city will supply, own and maintain gang-type metering
sockets in standard groupings as adopted by the city for multiple occupancy
buildings where ganged type meter installations are desired.
         (b)   Meter sockets owned by the city will not be the combination type
that includes line or load switches or facilities for installing these switches
and/or overcurrent devices.
         (c)   Combination equipment may be installed in lieu of city-owned
meter sockets, provided the customer owns, installs and maintains the
facilities.
         (d)   The city will not share in the ownership of the equipment and
will not reimburse others for sockets not supplied by the city.
         (e)   The customer will be required to furnish, install, own and
maintain all conduits, troughs, wiring and similar equipment needed to mount
and connect ganged socket assemblies.
   (E)   Accuracy of meters and meter testing.
      (1)   All electric watt-hour meters placed in service shall be certified
to be accurate within the following tolerances when under the following test
load conditions.
 
Percent of Test Current Power Factor Tolerances
100                     1.0          +/- 1.0%
10                      1.0          +/- 1.0%
100                     .5           +/- 2.0%
 
      (2)   Meters and associated devices will receive in-service performance
tests in accordance with the city's meter testing schedule.
      (3)   Inspections are made to determine proper operation and wiring
connections and must be made within 60 days after installation by a qualified
person other than the original installer, if possible.
      (4)   The following equipment is subject to post-installation
inspections:
         (a)   Meters associated with instrument transformers, excluding
single-phase current transformer metering installations or phase shifting
transformers together with all like associated equipment;
         (b)   Kilovar-hour meters; and
         (c)   Demand meters.
(1987 Code, § 304.13)
§ 54.14 BILLING FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Billing dates and bills payable.
      (1)   Electric meters are normally read once each month on approximately
the same date (with necessary variation for weekends and holidays), but the
city reserves the right to read meters at other times.
      (2)   Bills for service shall indicate the date on which the meter was
read, the meter reading at the beginning and at the end of the billing period,
the gross amount charged and the net amount to be paid if payment is made by
the date stated on the bill.
      (3)   Bills for electric service are due and payable on or before the
date shown on the bill. Payment may be to an authorized agent of the city at
City Hall. The amount called amount due now is a discounted charge available to
customers with no delinquent bills.
      (4)   If payment is made by mail and properly addressed to the city, the
United States postmark indicates the date on which the payment is considered
accepted.
   (B)   Meters not read on normal reading dates.
      (1)   The city will make a reasonable effort to read meters on
corresponding days of each meter-reading period, with proper allowance for
weekends and holidays.
      (2)   Customer bills may be prorated on a daily basis in the following
situations:
         (a)   When the meter-reading period is less than 80% of or
substantially longer than the normal meter-reading period as a result of the
date of initial connection, the date of permanent disconnection or a meter-
reading date change for the city's convenience; and
         (b)   When the meter-reading period for a large commercial or large
industrial customer is less than 80% of the normal reading.
      (3)   The city will normally attempt to secure meter readings for each
billing period, and will normally leave a meter-reading form for the customer
when access to meters cannot be obtained.
      (4)   If no form is left or the form is not returned in time for billing,
the city will estimate the number of Kilowatt-hours used.
      (5)   In case of emergency, such as storms or accidents the city may
render bills on estimated use without reading the meters or supplying forms to
the customers for meter reading.
   (C)   Estimated bills.
      (1)   Only in unusual cases will more than 3 consecutive estimated bills
be rendered to customers without the customer's prior approval.
      (2)   If an estimated bill or bills appear to be abnormal when a
subsequent reading is obtained, the bill for the entire period shall be
recomputed on the basis that the energy used during the period was used
uniformly each month during the period, and the customer shall be given credit
for the payment of any estimated bills; if there is reasonable evidence that
the whole use occurred during only 1 billing period, the bill shall be
recomputed.
   (D)   Budget payment.
      (1)   Any residential customer of the city may elect the city's budget
payment plan as the payment method for residential electric service.
      (2)   The customer may start or discontinue the plan at any time during
the normal budget year of January through December.
      (3)   An estimated budget amount will be paid each month by the customer.
In December, any excess or deficient payments from the current budget year will
be applied to the next budget year unless a refund is requested or payment is
made by the customer.
      (4)   The estimated budget amount may be revised if the city feels that
revisions are necessary; the customer will be advised of any revision.
      (5)   The budget payments will be subject to normal due dates unless the
due date is changed for cause upon the customer's written request.
      (6)   The city may terminate all or part of any customer's budget payment
plan for cause, including the customer's failure to comply with the plan.
   (E)   Failure to receive bills.
      (1)   The city will mail bills to the customer's address shown on the
application, agreement or contract for service, but the city reserves the right
to adopt other methods of delivering bills.
      (2)   Failure to receive a bill does not exempt a customer from these
rules, provided the city has mailed or delivered the bill to the customer's
last known address.
      (3)   Failure to render any bill on the normal date will not relieve the
customer of the obligation to pay the bill under these provisions.
      (4)   The customer may notify the city in writing of a temporary absence
from the city and make arrangements in advance for delaying utility bill
payment up to 2 weeks.
   (F)   Disconnect for nonpayment of service bills. If a bill is not paid by
the due date, a notice may be sent to the customer and service may be
disconnected pursuant to §
50.06(G) and (H).
   (G)   Grounds on customer's premises.
      (1)   If an accidental ground is found on the customer's equipment and
removed, the city will estimate the customer's normal consumption for each
regular billing period during which the ground was known to have existed by
comparing previous consumptions.
      (2)   (a)   The city will rebill the customer for the estimated normal
consumption during each billing period at the standard rate applicable to the
particular installation and for the lost energy.
         (b)   The lost energy due to the ground is assumed to be the
difference between the total measured consumption for any period and the
estimated normal consumption for that period.
      (3)   The customer will be billed for lost energy at the city's cost of
energy, including any adjustment charges from the city's power supplier.
      (4)   No adjustments will be made for a period greater than the 6 months
preceding detection of the ground, regardless of evidence that the ground
existed for a longer time. No adjustment will be made unless the city has
sufficient proof that a ground has existed and the extra energy was not used by
the customer.
   (H)   Failure of meter to register. If a meter does not register or
registers incorrectly the electric energy furnished by the city during any
period, the energy used for billing purposes shall be estimated, using the
average of the amounts registered over the similar preceding or subsequent
periods, or over corresponding periods in previous years, or by estimate using
the best available means.
   (I)   Adjustment of bills.
      (1)   If a meter creeps or a metering installation has an average error
of more than 2%, or a demand metering error of more than 3.5%, a billing
adjustment for the period of inaccuracy shall be made in the case of over-
registration and may be made in the case of under-registration.
      (2)   For watt-hour meters, the average accuracy shall be the arithmetic
average of the percent registration at light load and at heavy load, giving the
heavy load registration a weight of 4 and the light load registration a weight
of 1.
      (3)   If the date when the registration error began can be determined,
this date shall be the starting point for determining the adjustment, except
that adjustments due to slow meters shall be limited to the preceding 6-month
period.
      (4)   If the date when the registration error began cannot be determined,
the error shall be assumed to have existed for a period equal to 1/2 of the
time elapsed since the meter was installed or 1/2 of the time elapsed since the
last test, except as otherwise provided below regarding registration error due
to creep.
      (5)   Generally bills shall be recalculated on the basis of actual
monthly consumption. If service has been measured by self-contained single-
phase meters or 3-wire network meters and involves no billing other than for
kilowatt-hours, bills may be recalculated based on the average monthly
consumption determined from the most recent 36-months’ consumption data.
      (6)   The registration error due to creep shall be calculated by timing
the rate of creeping and assuming that this creeping affected the registration
of the meter for 25% of the time since the meter was installed or since the
last previous test, whichever is later.
      (7)   When the average error cannot be determined by test because part or
all of the metering equipment has failed check metering installations
registration, the quantity of energy consumed based on available data may be
estimated. The customer must be advised of the failure and of the basis for the
estimate. The same periods of error shall be used as defined above.
   (J)   Refunds.
      (1)   If the recalculated bills indicate that more than $1 is due an
existing customer or $2 is due a person no longer a customer, the difference
between the amount paid and the recalculated amount shall be refunded in full;
otherwise, no refund shall be made. Refunds shall be made to no more than the 2
most recent consumers who received service through the meter found to be in
error.
      (2)   If someone who is no longer a customer is found to owe an
additional amount or is due a refund, a notice of the amount due shall be
mailed to the previous customer at his or her last known address, and the city
shall refund any amount due the consumer within 3 months of demand by the
previous consumer.
      (3)   When a customer has been overcharged as a result of incorrect meter
reading, incorrect application of the rate schedule, incorrect meter connection
or other similar reasons, the overcharge may be credited to the customer's
account or refunded to the customer at the city's option for a period of up to
2 years.
      (4)   When a customer has been undercharged as a result of incorrect
meter reading, incorrect application of the rate schedule, incorrect meter
connection or other similar reasons, the amount of the undercharge may be
billed to the customer for a period of up to 2 years.
   (K)   Procedure for collection of undercharge.
      (1)   When a customer's bill is to be adjusted for an undercharge, the
customer shall be notified of the proposed change 10 days before the change is
to be effective. The notice shall be in writing and sent by certified mail to
the customer's present billing address. The customer shall be given an
opportunity to review the proposed change at a hearing before the Council
within 40 days of when the notice is mailed.
      (2)   If the customer fails to request a hearing or to notify the city of
a dispute over the proposed change, the customer shall be deemed to have
accepted the proposed changes and shall be liable for the increased charges.
(1987 Code, § 304.14)
§ 54.15 ELECTRICAL RATES AND SUMMARY OF SERVICE AVAILABLE.
   (A)   Electric utility rates shall be as follows.
Type From To Per
Type                 From   To     Per
Residential
Fixed charge         $20.00 $35.00 month
Energy first 500 kWh $0.115 $0.122 /kWh
Excess of 500 kWh    $0.135 $0.126 /kWh
Single Phase Commercial
Fixed charge         $25.00 $45.45 month
Energy charge
   First 500 kWh  $0.115 $0.113 /kWh
   Excess         $0.115 $0.113 /kWh
Type From To Per
Type             From   To      Per
Three-Phase Commercial
Fixed charge     $91.50 $200.00 month
Energy charge
   First 500 k$0.115 $0.113  /kWh
   Excess     $0.115 $0.113  /kWh
   Large Power
Fixed charge     $91.50 $200.00 month
Demand           $12.19 $12.33  kw-mo
Energy           $0.079 $0.0975 /kWh
Large Industrial
Fixed charge     $91.50 $200.00 month
Demand           $12.19 $12.33  kw-mo.
kVAr             $0.25  $0.25   kVAr
Energy           $0.079 $0.0975 /kWh
   Security Lighting
Fixed charge     $14.00 $14.00  month
 
   (B)   These rates will go into effect 30 days after publication or on May
19, 2013, whichever is later.
(Am. Ord. 498, passed 7-13-2006; Am. Ord. 503, passed 12-12-2006; Am. Ord.
512A, passed 12-19-2007; Am. Ord. 522, passed 12-9-2008; Am. Ord. 533, passed
12-8-2009; Am. Ord. 544, passed 4-26-2011; Am. Ord. 562, passed 4-9-2013; Am.
Ord. 636, passed 1-11-2022; Am. Ord. 642, passed 12-22-2022)
§ 54.16 CLEAR ZONE POLICY AROUND ELECTRICAL CABINETS.
   (A)   Responsibility. It shall be the responsibility of the property owner
to keep the area around all electrical cabinets clear of all trees, plants,
shrubs and the like.
   (B)   Clear zone area. The following distances represent the area that needs
to be clear around the electrical cabinets:
      (1)   Front of the cabinet: 10 feet;
      (2)   Sides of the cabinet: 4 feet; and
      (3)   Rear of the cabinet: 4 feet.
(Ord. 483, passed 5-27-2004)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE OPERATION AND PARKING
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE OPERATION AND PARKING
Section
   
70.01   Vehicle regulation
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Parking
   
70.04   Removing keys
   
70.05   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.06   Police duties
   
70.07   Traffic flow and direction
   
70.08   Snowmobiles
   
70.09   Bicycles
   
70.10   Snow removal
   
70.11   Special vehicle use
   
70.12   Vehicular noise prohibited
   
70.13   Trunk restrictions
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 VEHICLE REGULATION.
   (A)   Highway traffic regulation chapter incorporated by reference. The
regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, are adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways,
streets and alleys within the city and are incorporated in and made a part of
this code as if set out here in full.
   (B)   Penalty. Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in
division (A) above is a violation of this code when it occurs within the city.
Any person violating any provision of this code shall be guilty of an offense
and shall be punished by the penalty prescribed by statute except where a
different penalty is prescribed in this code.
(1987 Code, § 501.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   State statutes adopted by reference. Terms used in this chapter and
defined in M.S. §§ 84.81 and 169.01, as they may be amended from time to time,
shall have the meanings given to them by that section.
   (B)   St. Charles Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      (1)   RV. Includes mobile homes, campers, boats, snowmobiles, and jet-
skis on trailers.
      (2)   TRAILER. Includes utility, semi-trailers, RV trailers, flat beds,
and any other wheeled vehicle designed to be attached to and pulled by a
motorized vehicle.
      (3)   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or VEHICLE. As defined by M.S. § 84.92,
subdivision 8, a motorized, flotation-tired vehicle of not less than 4 low-
pressure tires, but not more than 6 tires, that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters, and includes a “class 1 all-
terrain vehicle” and “class 2 all-terrain vehicle”.
         (a)   CLASS 1 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle that has a
total dry weight of less than 1,000 pounds.
         (b)   CLASS 2 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. An all-terrain vehicle that has a
total dry weight of 1,000 to 1,800 pounds.
      (4)   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV) or VEHICLE. As defined by M.S. §
169.045, subdivision 1(3), a side-by-side, 4-wheel drive, off-road vehicle that
has 4 wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine with a piston
displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has a total dry
weight of 1,800 but less than 2,600 pounds.
      (5)   MINI-TRUCK.  A mini-truck as defined by M.S. § 169.011, subdivision
40a, a motor vehicle with 4 wheels that is propelled by an electric motor or an
internal combustion engine, with an enclosed cabin and a seat for the vehicle
operator. It commonly resembles a pickup truck or van, including having a cargo
area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle. It was not originally
manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards, but must have head
lamps; an exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the vehicle; either
an exterior mirror mounted on the passenger’s side of the vehicle or an
interior mirror; a windshield; seat belts for the driver and the front
passenger; and a parking brake.
(1987 Code, § 501.02) (Am. Ord. 521, passed 12-9-2008; Am. Ord. 576, passed 2-
10-2015)
§ 70.03 PARKING.
   (A)   Time limit parking zones.
      (1)   The Council may, by resolution, designate certain areas where the
right to park is limited during hours specified. The Public Works
Superintendent shall mark by appropriate signs each zone so designated.
      (2)   During the hours specified on the sign, no person shall park a
vehicle in any limited parking zone for a period longer than is specified.
   (B)   No parking, stopping or standing zones.
      (1)   The Council may designate certain streets or portions of streets as
no parking or no stopping or standing zones and may limit the hours in which
the restrictions apply by resolution. The Public Works Superintendent shall
mark by appropriate signs each zone so designated.
      (2)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in
compliance with the directions of a police officer or a traffic control device,
no person shall stop or park a vehicle in an established no stopping or
standing zone when stopping or standing is prohibited.
      (3)   No vehicle shall be parked in a no parking zone during hours when
parking is prohibited except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in the
zone for the purpose of forming a funeral procession, and a truck may be parked
temporarily between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. of any business day
for the purpose of loading or unloading where access to the premises is not
otherwise available.
   (C)   Parking of certain vehicles in residential areas.
      (1)   Unless otherwise excepted under division (C)(3) below, no tractor,
semi-tractor or pickup having more than 5-ton gross vehicle weight rating,
trailer, mobile home, heavy equipment, dump trucks, RVs, boat or RV trailers,
or any vehicle exceeding 25 feet in length, shall be allowed to park, stand or
remain unattended on streets or alleys in residential zones within the city. A
residential zone is that area so defined in the Zoning Code.
      (2)   No vehicle shall in any case be parked upon any street or alley in
a residential zone in the same location for a continuous period longer than 48
hours, unless a different period is specified for particular locations by the
Council. For the purpose of this division, any vehicle moved a distance of less
than one city block during such 48-hour period shall be deemed to have remained
in the same location.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Vehicles or equipment of the types listed in division (C)(1)
above may park temporarily on streets or alleys in residential areas only long
enough to load or unload.
         (b)   Trucks and non-semi trailers used for construction, electrical,
plumbing, appliance, phone, cable, or other repair service, may park on
residential streets or alleys during such construction or repair service, but
only adjacent to the premises being served.
         (c)   Trailers or dumpsters used for construction projects may be
parked on residential streets or alleys overnight in residential or commercial
districts for the duration of the construction project if they are lighted or
reflectorized.
   (D)   Other restrictions in residential areas.
      (1)   No diesel or other truck or semi-trailer engines or trailer
refrigeration units may be operated between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 5:00
a.m., or for more than 15 minutes at any one time, anywhere in a residential
zoned area.
      (2)   No vehicle or trailer shall be parked in a manner or place which
restricts view of intersections or pedestrian crosswalks from on-coming
traffic, or interferes with the movement of, or loading or unloading of school
buses.
      (3)   Trucks, trailers and any vehicle having gross vehicle weight rating
of more than 5 tons, or more than 25 feet in length, may only be parked in
driveways or side or rear yard areas in residential districts, and only if
owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the premises.
   (E)   Impoundment.
      (1)   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage
or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended or constitutes an
obstruction to traffic, or hinders snow removal, street improvement or
maintenance operations.
      (2)   The vehicle shall not be released until towing and storage fees are
paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of this chapter.
   (F)   Prima facie violation. The presence of any motor vehicle standing or
parking on any street or alley in violation of this chapter is prima facie
evidence that the registered owner of the vehicle committed or authorized the
commission of the violation.
   (G)   Obstructing enforcement efforts; penalty. It shall be a misdemeanor
for any person to obliterate or remove any mark placed on a vehicle by law
enforcement for the purpose of measuring the time a vehicle has been parked at
a particular location.
   (H)   Penalty. Unless otherwise specified or charged as administrative
fines, all parking violations shall be a petty misdemeanor for each day the
violation continues.
(1987 Code, § 501.03) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008; Am. Ord. 521, passed 12-
9-2008; Am. Ord. 593, passed 9-12-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 REMOVING KEYS.
   (A)   No person shall leave a motor vehicle, except a truck which is engaged
in loading or unloading, unattended on any street, used car lot or unattended
parking lot without first stopping the engine and locking the ignition.
   (B)   If a police officer finds any motor vehicle standing in violation of
this provision, the officer may remove the keys from the vehicle, and deliver
them to the driver or owner upon proof of valid license, registration,
insurance, and payment of fine.
(1987 Code, § 501.04)
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 521, passed 12-9-2008)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a
motor vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise
or backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel or in a manner simulating a race.
   (B)   Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by tires, or the
throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima facie evidence of a violation
of this section.
(1987 Code, § 501.05)
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 521, passed 12-9-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 POLICE DUTIES.
   (A)   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and
the state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic
within the city, either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in
conformity with this chapter and the state traffic laws.
   (B)   During a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard
pedestrians, officers may direct traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding
the provisions of this chapter and the state traffic laws.
   (C)   Fire Department officials may direct or assist the police in directing
traffic at the scene of a fire or other emergency in the immediate vicinity.
(1987 Code, § 501.06)
§ 70.07 TRAFFIC FLOW AND DIRECTION.
   (A)   The Council by resolution and upon recommendation of the Public Safety
Commission may designate any street or portion of a street as a through highway
or a 1-way roadway where necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or
prevent accidents.
   (B)   The Public Works Superintendent shall post appropriate signs at the
entrance to streets including stop, yield, 1-way or other traffic control signs
or devices.
   (C)   No trunk highway shall be so designated unless consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation is first secured.
(1987 Code, § 501.07)
§ 70.08 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Operation prohibited. Snowmobiles shall not be operated within the
city limits unless the operation complies with M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.90, as they
may be amended from time to time, inclusive and all other state laws and
regulations pertaining to snowmobiles, which are hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   Snowmobile routes.
      (1)   Snowmobiles shall not be operated upon the city streets or alleys
except upon streets or alleys specifically designated as snowmobile routes by
City Council resolution.
      (2)   No snowmobile shall be operated upon any other street except for
the purpose of moving the vehicle between an owner's residence and the nearest
official snowmobile route.
   (C)   Specific regulations. All snowmobiles operated upon a city street or
alley shall observe the following regulations:
      (1)   Speed shall not be in excess of 10 mph;
      (2)   Snowmobile operators shall reduce the vehicle's speed at all
intersections and yield the right-of-way to any approaching motor vehicle;
      (3)   Snowmobiles shall keep to the right and travel single file;
      (4)   Snowmobiles shall not be allowed to stand and idle within 200 feet
of the nearest residence, except for time necessary to warm up the vehicle;
      (5)   Snowmobiles shall not be driven upon private property without the
owner's consent or upon city sidewalks or boulevards; and
      (6)   Snowmobiles shall not be operated by any person under the age of 14
years except upon private property.
   (D)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
(1987 Code, § 501.08) (Am. Ord. 521, passed 12-9-2008 )
§ 70.09 BICYCLES.
   (A)   Statute adopted. Minnesota Statutes § 169.222 (Operation of bicycles),
as it may be amended from time to time, is adopted as part of this code.
   (B)   Additional regulations. The following regulations also apply to
bicycle operations.
      (1)   Excessive speed prohibited. No person shall ride any bicycle upon
or along any sidewalk or street at a speed, which is excessive, or in a manner
which endangers the safety of pedestrians using the same street or sidewalk.
      (2)   Seat required. A person propelling a bicycle shall not ride other
than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
      (3)   Attachment to vehicle prohibited. No person riding upon any bicycle
shall attach it or himself or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      (4)   Riders abreast. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not
ride more than 2 abreast except on paths or roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
      (5)   Bicycle paths. When a usable path for bicycles has been provided
adjacent to a roadway, bicycles shall use the path and shall not use the
roadway.
      (6)   Riding on sidewalks. No person shall ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk
within the business district. Whenever any person is riding a bicycle upon a
sidewalk, that person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall
give audible signal before overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
      (7)   Carrying packages. No person operating a bicycle shall carry any
package, bundle or article, which prevents the driver from keeping at least 1
hand upon the handle or bar or from properly operating the bicycle brakes.
      (8)   Equipment. Every bicycle when in use at nighttime shall be equipped
with a red reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Public
Safety which is visible from all distances from 50 to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 501.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.10 SNOW REMOVAL.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OWNER. The titleholder of a vehicle; or a conditional vendee or lessee if
the vehicle is subject to a conditional sales agreement or lease.
      PARKING. The standing of an unoccupied or occupied vehicle on a street,
road or highway for a purpose other than loading or unloading or obeying
traffic regulations.
      ROADWAY. That part of a street, road or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported upon a highway, except devices moved solely by human or animal
power.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle in such a manner as to obstruct the
removal of snow from streets and alleys during snow removal operation.
   (C)   Snow removal operations. When there is snowfall, no one shall park any
motor vehicle on the streets, alleys, boulevards, or public grounds (except for
municipal parking lots) within corporate limits of the city until snowfall has
ceased and the street has been plowed curb to curb, except as provided in
division (2) below herein.
      (1)   Any motor vehicle in violation of the above may be immediately
removed and impounded by the Police Department.
      (2)   Parking shall be permitted on Whitewater Avenue during snow removal
operations between 6th Street and l5th Street between the hours of 6:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m.
   (D)   (1)   Impoundment. Vehicles removed and impounded by the Police
Department shall be surrendered to the duly identified owner only after the
following criteria have been met:
         (a)   The owner has shown proof of identification and ownership;
         (b)   The owner has shown proof of insurance and current registration
of the vehicle; and
         (c)   All costs of towing and storage have been paid to the tow
operator.
      (2)   Owner responsible.
         (a)   The fact that a motor vehicle is parked in violation of this
section shall be prima facie evidence that the owner of the vehicle, (or for a
leased motor vehicle, the lessee of the vehicle) is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $300.
         (b)   The owner or lessee may not be fined under this provision if:
            1.   Another person is convicted of the same violation; or
            2.   The motor vehicle was reported as stolen before the time of
the violation.
         (c)   The removal or impoundment of a vehicle under this section does
not preclude citation and prosecution for violation as a petty misdemeanor, or
for an administrative fine.
(Ord. 466, passed 2-24-2003; Am. Ord. 475, passed 11-10-2003; Am. Ord. 521,
passed 12-9-2008 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.11 SPECIAL VEHICLE USE.
   (A)   Authorized use.
      (1)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 169.045, use of
motorized golf carts, mini-trucks, all-terrain vehicles or utility task
vehicles are permitted within the city under the conditions set forth below.
      (2)   Only persons who have a valid permit issued by the city shall
operate motorized golf carts, mini-trucks, all-terrain or utility task vehicles
within the city on streets and alleys only.
      (3)   Motorized golf carts, mini-trucks, all-terrain and utility task
vehicles are not authorized within the city on pedestrian paths, on bike
trails, on public sidewalks, or in parks unless specifically permitted by the
city.
      (4)   Class 1 all-terrain vehicles and motorized golf carts may cross
Whitewater Avenue, State Highway 14 and 74, but may not drive on these roads
within the city.
   (B)   General permit requirements.
      (1)   Each person desiring a permit for the operation of a special
vehicle must submit an application to the Chief of Police with an application
fee.
      (2)   Each applicant shall show evidence of insurance which meets the
requirements of M.S. § 65B.48, subdivision 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (3)   The St. Charles Police Department shall inspect each motorized golf
cart, all-terrain or utility task vehicle receiving a permit to ensure that
each vehicle has a rear view mirror, a slow-moving vehicle sign attached to the
rear of the vehicle, and that it is in generally good working condition.
      (4)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated between sunrise and
sunset.
      (5)   Speed limit for all vehicles subject to this section is set at 15
mph in the city limits
      (6)   Each permit must be renewed every 2 years.
      (7)   Standard mufflers properly attached to the vehicle, which reduce
the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe, or similar device on
an vehicle. The apparatus shall not be audible for a distance more than 500
feet from the place or places where such devices or apparatus will be located.
      (8)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
vehicle under any condition of operation.
      (9)   At least 1 clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness and under normal atmospheric conditions,
when the vehicle is operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility. Such headlamp
shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle operator. The vehicle shall also be equipped with at least 1
red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a
red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours
of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions.
      (10)   A permit may be revoked at any time if it is shown that the permit
holder cannot safely operate the motorized golf cart, mini-truck, all-terrain
or utility task vehicle on the designated roadway, or if the permit holder has
had a driver’s license revoked or suspended and is currently under revocation
or suspension.
   (C)   General permit requirements for the handicapped.
      (1)   The general permit requirements as specified in division (B) above
must be met.
      (2)   Each application shall be accompanied by a doctor’s certificate
dated not more than 30 days prior to the application date certifying that the
individual is capable of safely operating a motorized golf cart, all-terrain or
utility task vehicle.
      (3)   This requirement shall be deemed satisfied if the applicant has
been issued a motor vehicle permit for a handicapped person.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Lawn and snow removal equipment. Provided the vehicle also complies
with all other regulations above herein, and has a DNR “Public Use”
registration tag; a vehicle otherwise defined as an all terrain vehicle in
Minnesota Statutes, shall be allowed to travel on city streets and alleys (but
not highways, except to cross); provided it is equipped with lawn-mowing or
snow-removal attachments, and is being used only for either of those purposes
between 5:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   For permitted city maintenance.  Provided the vehicle also complies
with all other regulations herein above, and has a DNR “Public Use”
registration tag (if applicable); a vehicle otherwise defined as an all-terrain
or utility task vehicle, shall be allowed to travel in city parks and on city
paths and trails; provided it has been permitted for city maintenance, and is
being used only for those purposes.
      (3)   For permitted emergency vehicle. Provided the vehicle also complies
with all other regulations herein above, and has a DNR "Public Use"
registration tag (if applicable); a vehicle otherwise defined as an all-terrain
or utility task vehicle, shall be allowed to travel in city parks and on city
paths and trails; provided it has been permitted for emergency vehicle, and is
being used only for those purposes.
   (E)   Operation of vehicles by minors. Vehicle operators who are minors and
who wish to operate vehicles within the city limits are subject to the
following conditions, in addition to those required for adult operators:
      (1)   No minor under 16 years of age shall be permitted to operate an
vehicle in the City of St. Charles.
      (2)   All minors at least 16 years of age but less than 18 years of age
may operate an vehicle, subject to the restrictions set forth above, if the
minor possesses a valid driver’s license and wears a safety helmet approved by
the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (3)   Effective January 1, 2006, anyone born after July 1, 1987, who is
16 years of age or older, must complete an independent study course component
of vehicle safety training before operating a vehicle on public lands.
   (F)   City liability. Nothing in this section shall be construed as an
assumption of liability by the city for any injuries to persons or property
that may result from the operation of a motorized golf cart or 4-wheel all-
terrain vehicle by a permit holder, or from the city’s failure to revoke a
permit.
   (G)   Enforcement. The city may authorize any police officer or any other
authorized representative of the law to issue a citation to any person, firm,
or entity for any alleged violations of this section and any other ordinance or
statute that provides the basis for prosecution of violations of this section.
Nothing within this section shall be construed to limit the authority of police
officers to enforce any provisions of this section or related statutes or
ordinances. The police officer, or other official of the city, is authorized to
issue a citation to any person, firm, or entity for any alleged violation of
this section as often as each day the violation persists.
   (H)   Other requirements for operation. In addition to the provision of
state statutes, no person shall drive or operate an all-terrain or utility task
vehicle in the city:
      (1)   Upon the private property of another without the express written
consent of such other person.
      (2)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner to endanger the person
or property of another or cause injury or damage thereon.
      (3)   With no more passengers than there are seats on the all-terrain or
utility task vehicle to carry them. All passengers shall sit on the seats
provided, with no infants or young children riding on laps.
      (4)   Without a rearview mirror as required under M.S. § 169.70.
      (5)   While towing a sled, toboggan, wagon, trailer or other object,
unless the sled, toboggan, wagon, trailer or other object is attached to the
all-terrain or utility task vehicle by a solid hitch.
(Ord. 416, passed 9-12-1996; Am. Ord. 526, passed 5-12-2009; Am. Ord. 576,
passed 2-10-2015)
§ 70.12 VEHICULAR NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition.
      (1)   No person shall make or cause to be made any distinctly and loudly
audible noise through the use of a vehicle that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value.
      (2)   This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restriction
of the following divisions.
   (B)   Dynamic engine brakes. No dynamic engine brakes shall be used within
the limits of the city.
   (C)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge exhaust or permit the discharge of
exhaust from any engine without passing through a muffler and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (D)   Stationary engine noise.
      (1)   No person shall allow a stationary engine to run continuously for a
period of time that is objectionable as outlined in division (A) above unless
some essential or emergency purpose requires its continuous operation.
      (2)   This would include truck engines and auxiliary engines.
   (E)   Violations. Any person violating the provisions of this section shall
be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 501.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.13 TRUNK RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   General weight restrictions.
      (1)   The Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel by
commercial vehicles in excess of 9,000 pounds gross weight is prohibited. The
City Administrator or Police Chief shall cause appropriate signs to be posted
on those streets.
      (2)   No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on these posted
streets in violation of the restrictions stated.
   (B)   Seasonal weight restrictions.
      (1)   The Council by resolution may prohibit the operation of vehicles
upon any street or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated on any
street whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other
conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles
on the street is prohibited or the permissible weights limited.
      (2)   The City Administrator or Police Chief shall cause to be posted
signs plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end of that
portion of the street affected. No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted
street in violation of the prohibition or restriction.
(1987 Code, § 501.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Violations of §
70.10 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor with a fine of $25 for each
violation.
(Ord. 475, passed 11-10-2003)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
91.   TREES
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   STREET, PARK AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
94.   NOISE REGULATIONS
      
95.   CITY PARKS
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Assessable current services
   
90.02   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
90.15   Public nuisance
   
90.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
90.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
90.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
90.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
90.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
90.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
90.22   Duties of city officers
   
90.23   Abatement
   
90.24   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
90.35   Short title
   
90.36   Jurisdiction
   
90.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
90.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
90.39   Filing complaint
   
90.40   Notice of violations
   
90.41   Appeals
   
90.42   Abatement by city
   
90.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
90.60   Definitions
   
90.61   Prohibited materials
   
90.62   Permit required for open burning
   
90.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
90.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
90.65   Permit process for open burning
   
90.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
90.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
90.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
90.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
90.70   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
90.71   Outdoor wood burning furnaces and the like
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or
safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included
in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The Deputy Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The Deputy Clerk or
other designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal
adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
Deputy Clerk.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property, the Deputy
Clerk shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or repair
against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians.
Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard specifications approved
by the City Council and on file in the office of the Deputy Clerk.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections and/or review requests by homeowners as are necessary to determine
that public sidewalks within the city are kept in repair and safe for
pedestrians or vehicles. If it is found that any sidewalk abutting on private
property is unsafe and in need of repairs, the City Council or its designee
shall cause a notice to be served, by registered or certified mail or by
personal service, upon the record owner of the property, ordering the owner to
have the sidewalk repaired and made safe within 60 days, and stating that if
the owner fails to do so, the city will make the repairs or replacement and
bill the cost to the owner(s). If the owner fails to pay the cost of the repair
or replacement to the city within 30 days of billing, the city may make the
cost a special assessment against the abutting property.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk is not repaired within 60 days
after receipt of the notice, the Deputy Clerk shall report the facts to the
City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the work done by
contract in accordance with law. The Deputy Clerk shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
      (4)   Cost-share by city. After marking the panels deemed necessary for
replacement, the City Council or its designee will inform the property owner as
to which panels may qualify for the financial assistance through the Capital
Improvement Plan. As a result of the inspection and approval by the City
Council or its designee, the city may agree to pay up to 25% of the cost of
repair or replacement of the identified damaged panels. The city will also be
responsible for 100% of the cost of handicap access ramps if deemed necessary,
or as requested. The city will continue this policy only to the extent funds
are available and budgeted within the Capital Improvement Plan, which may vary
from year to year. If sufficient funds are not available through the Capital
Improvement Plan at the time of the repair or replacement, property owners may
request reimbursement up to one year after the project is completed. The
request for reimbursement requires an inspection prior to the repair or
replacement by the owner(s), to allow the City Council or its designee to
confirm and mark the qualifying panels. The city does not warrant funds will be
available in any particular year.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner(s) of the property on which, or adjacent
to which, a current service has been performed, shall be personally (if more
than one, jointly and severally) liable for the cost of the service. However,
if funds are available, the city may, at the request of the owner(s), allow
one-half (50%) of the cost to be assessed against the property for up to five
years, at an interest rate set by the Council. The owner(s) must waive any
objection to the assessment in writing. The remaining amount of the estimated
cost of the service must be paid to the city before the start of the project.
The owner(s) may make their own arrangements with the contractor for the
project for additional replacement or work, provided it meets city
specifications. The city will not be responsible to pay for, supervise, or be
liable for defects of any such additional work. As soon as the project or
service has been completed, and final cost determined, the Deputy Clerk shall
prepare a bill for any costs exceeding the estimated amount and mail it to the
owner(s), and prepare the special assessment for certification to the Winona
County Auditor for collection.
   (G)   Damage to public property.
      (1)   Any person driving any vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance
upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be liable for all damages
which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a result of any illegal
operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment or object or
contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any vehicle,
equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight
permitted by statute or this code.
      (2)   When the driver is not the owner of the vehicle, equipment, object
or contrivance, but is operating, driving or moving it with the express or
implied permission of the owner, then the owner and the driver shall be jointly
and severally liable for any like damage.
      (3)   Any person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by
that act damages any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof,
which amount shall be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment.
      (1)   On or before October 31 of each year, the Deputy Clerk shall list
the total unpaid charges for each type of current service and charges under
this section against each separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable
under this section.
      (2)   The City Council may then spread the charges against property
benefitted as a special assessment under the authority of M.S. § 429.101 as it
may be amended from time to time and other pertinent statutes for certification
to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following
year or in annual installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may
determine in each case.
(Am. Ord. 528, passed 7-14-2009) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in §§
90.22 and
90.23.
   (C)   Record of costs. The Deputy Clerk shall keep a record of the costs of
abatement done under this section for all work done for which assessments are
to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels
involved and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges.
      (1)   On or before September 1 of each year, the Deputy Clerk shall list
the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or parcel
to which they are attributable under this section.
      (2)   The City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof
against the property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. §
429.101 as it may be amended from time to time and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection the following year along
with the current taxes.
Penalty, see §
10.99
NUISANCES
§ 90.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty, intentionally
does any of the following, is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
(Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   (1)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine
or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and
loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any
person nearby.
      (2)   Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property
line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of
50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section;
   (G)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people
giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet or repose of
another person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than 6 feet above the ground and within 3
feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)    Blowing, sweeping, raking or shoveling leaves, grass, dirt or snow
onto the public street.
   (V)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (W)   Certain noises.
      (1)   Noises prohibited.
         (a)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made
any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
this section.
         (b)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise.
         (c)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading or unpacking any vehicle.
         (d)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like. No person
shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any like set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly
audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it is
located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if
the source is located outside a structure or building, shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
         (e)   Schools, churches, hospitals and the like. No person shall
create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church or hospital when the noise unreasonably
interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its
occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such
institution.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from
this provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday, weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each statement and take its
evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (X)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and 1 footcandle when abutting
any commercial or industrial parcel; and
   (Y)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel.
(Am. Ord. 553, passed 6-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners' and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and/or
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
ice fish houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front-yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than 4 vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be parked
or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property;
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking or driveway area; and
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Legislative intent.
      (1)   The unsheltered storage of old, unused, stripped or junked
automobiles not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other
vehicles, machinery, implements, equipment, junk or personal property of any
kind which is no longer safely usable for the purposes for which it was
manufactured is hereby declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the public
health and safety.
      (2)   The unsheltered storage of these property items throughout the city
tend to impede traffic in the streets, interfere with the enjoyment of and
reduce the value of private property, invite plundering, create fire hazards
and other safety and health hazards to children as well as adults, interfere
with the comfort and well-being of the public, and create, extend and aggravate
urban blight.
      (3)   As so, the City Council determines that, in order to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, the conditions must be regulated, abated or
prohibited.
   (B)   Nuisance on private property.
      (1)   The unsheltered storage of unused, stripped or junked automobiles
not in good and safe operating condition, and of any other vehicles, machinery,
implements, equipment, junk or personal property of any kind which is no longer
safely usable for the purposes for which it was manufactured is hereby declared
to be a nuisance.
      (2)   Nothing in this section shall restrict the activities of duly
established junk or salvage yards. This section does not apply to vehicles or
property in an enclosed building, on the premises of a business enterprise
operated in a lawful manner when necessary to the operation of the business
enterprise, or in a storage or depository maintained in a lawful location and
manner by the city.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, JUNK shall mean worn out or discarded
material of little or no value including, but not limited to, household
appliances or parts thereof, tools, discarded building materials, tin cans,
broken glass, broken furniture, mattresses, box springs, boxes, crates,
cardboard, tires or any other unsightly debris the accumulation of which has an
adverse effect upon neighborhood or city property value, health, safety or
general welfare.
   (C)   Abandoned motor vehicles.
      (1)   No person shall place, park, permit to remain, store or leave upon
an open space area of any premises located anywhere in the city any motor
vehicle unless it conforms with all of the following requirements:
         (a)   The vehicle must have affixed to it a valid current motor
vehicle license;
         (b)   The vehicle must not lack essential parts that would render it
inoperable;
         (c)   The vehicle must not be in a rusted, wrecked, partially
dismantled or junked condition; and
         (d)   The vehicle must be parked on a surface consisting of crushed
rock, cement or blacktop.
      (2)   If a motor vehicle fails to meet any of the above requirements, the
owner or possessor of the motor vehicle, shall be responsible to remove the
motor vehicle to a duly licensed junk yard or other authorized place of deposit
or storage within 10 working days of a demand by the city. In the event the
owner or possessor of the motor vehicle cannot be located then it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises to remove the motor vehicle to a
duly licensed junk yard or other authorized place of deposit or storage within
10 working days of a demand by the city.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE means every vehicle
which is self-propelled.
   (D)   Violations of public health or safety hazard. A person who creates,
maintains or allows to continue a condition on property which poses a risk to
the health or safety of the public in violation of division (B) or (C) above
shall be deemed to have created in the city a public health or safety hazard
which is declared to be a nuisance subject to abatement by the city as provided
in division (E) below.
   (E)   Abatement.
      (1)   In all cases of nuisances described in division (D) above, the City
Administrator, or his or her designee, shall cause a written notice to be
served upon the person or entity that maintains, operates or permits a
nuisance. The notice shall be substantially as follows:
   “Notice to Abate Nuisance
         The City of St. Charles to __________________.
   You are hereby notified that the nuisance maintained, operated or permitted
to exist by you located at
___________________________________________________________ and consisting or
________________________________ must be abated by the (removal) (destruction)
(discontinuance) of the same and that if you do not comply with this notice,
you are directed to appear before the undersigned at the St. Charles City Hall
on __________________________, 20___, at _____ a.m./p.m. to show cause why the
same should not be abated. If you fail to appear, the undersigned will take the
necessary steps to abate the nuisance. The costs of abatement incurred by the
city shall be assessed against you, and a lien may be imposted on the property
to secure the payment.
   Date this _________ day of _________________, 20___.
   _______________________________________________
   (Title of Signer)
   A copy of the foregoing notice was served on __________________________ on
the _______ day of ____________, 20___, by _____________(describe manner of
service).
   _______________________________________________
   (Name of Server)”
      (2)   If the person or entity cannot be found, then a copy of the notice
may be served by delivery to any member of the family or upon an officer or
agent of the entity over 18 years of age and found on the premises described in
the notice or at the residence of the person named therein, and if service
cannot be had in that manner, then by posting a copy in some conspicuous place
on the premises described in the notice and sending a copy of certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the person or entity at the last known address.
      (3)   At the same time and place specified in the notice, the City
Administrator, or his or her designee, shall hear the matter. The person or
entity so complained of shall have the right to appear in person or by counsel.
At the conclusion of the hearing, the City Administrator, or his or her
designee, may vacate the notice or may declare the condition to be a nuisance
and order it abated summarily.
      (4)   In all cases where the City Administrator, or his or her designee,
shall have determined, after hearing or notice of hearing and default, that any
nuisance shall be abated, he or she shall issue an order requiring the
abatement of the nuisance within a time named in the order, and shall serve the
order of abatement upon the person or entity who maintains, operates or permits
the nuisance. In the event the nuisance is not abated by the party within the
time provided in the order, the City Administrator, or his or her designee,
shall cause the nuisance to be abated.
      (5)   Any person aggrieved by an order of abatement may appeal the order
to the City Council. An appeal shall be taken within 10 days from the date of
the order of abatement by filing with the City Administrator a notice of appeal
which shall specify the grounds of appeal. The matter shall be placed on the
City Council's next regularly scheduled meeting for a public hearing. An appeal
stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from.
      (6)   The City Council may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may
modify, the order of abatement and may issue any order, requirement, decision
or determination as is consistent with city ordinances.
      (7)   Any person or entity who fails to remove and abate any nuisance
after proper notice, the opportunity to be heard, and final order shall be
liable to the city for all expenses incurred in the removal and abatement of
the nuisance. The city shall have the right to recover all costs and a lien may
be imposed upon the property to secure payment of the costs. The procedure for
establishing a lien shall be in accordance with M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 448, passed 7-11-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners and occupants' enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and/or
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any 1 wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters and similar
projections on any 1 side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents and other similar projections must be
structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   For purposes of §§
90.22 and
90.23, the Police Department or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances.
   (B)   Any peace officer or designated person shall have the power to inspect
private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission
and maintenance of public nuisances.
   (C)   Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and
safety, no police officer or designated person shall enter private property for
the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of
competent jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 90.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation.
         (a)   Written notice of violation shall be served by a peace officer
or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the premises either
in person or by certified or registered mail.
         (b)   If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown,
or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of violation,
notice of violation shall be served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the
officer or person designated shall notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated.
      (2)   The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to
abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If
the notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the
officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to the City
Council.
      (3)   Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner or
occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement.
      (1)   In cases of emergency, where delay in abatement required to
complete the notice and procedure requirements set forth in divisions (A) and
(B) of this section will permit a continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger
public health safety or welfare, the City Council may order summary enforcement
and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer or
designated person shall determine that a public nuisance exists or is being
maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of the nuisance
will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the
city's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement.
      (3)   The City Council shall determine whether or not the condition
identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this section,
and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated.
      (4)   If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the Deputy Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the Deputy Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment.
      (1)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or safety
hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the Deputy Clerk
shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list
the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges
for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable.
      (2)   The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10, as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
10.99
WEEDS
§ 90.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the Weed Ordinance.
§ 90.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 90.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for 2 consecutive years;
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (4)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 8 inches;
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 90.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 8 inches in height.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the Deputy Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
§ 90.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in
violation of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall
make an inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding
the condition.
      (2)   The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a destruction order to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the Deputy
Clerk or any other city agency.
      (3)   The notice shall be served in writing by certified mail. The notice
shall provide that within 7 regular business days after the receipt of the
notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the property owner or
person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the Deputy Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the Deputy Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 90.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of
objections with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City
Council.
      (2)   It is the property owner's responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under the subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 90.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within 7 regular business days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the Deputy Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City Council
may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
   (B)   No person shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with
the permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the
property.
§ 90.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   (1)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs
associated with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs,
attorney's fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city.
      (2)   If the city uses municipal employees, it shall set and assign an
appropriate per hour rate for employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals
which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the Deputy
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a recreational fire as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than 3 feet
in height, contained within the border of a recreational fire site using dry,
clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the property
line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for recreational,
ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished completely
before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors,
burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety hazards will
not be created. No more than 1 RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on any property at
1 time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. 
      (1)   An area of no more than a 3-foot diameter circle (measured from the
inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by non-combustible
and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural rock, cement,
brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is depressed below
ground, on the ground or on a raised bed. Included are permanent outdoor wood
burning fireplaces.
      (2)   Burning barrels are not a RECREATION FIRE SITE as defined herein.
RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located closer than 25 feet to any
structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into 3-foot lengths.
§ 90.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheet rock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
90.60 above.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives; and
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only be issued by the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on
a form prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the
Fire Department.
      (2)   The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established by City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 90.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be
responsible for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in
effect. Every open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder
or his or her competent representative.
      (2)   The open burning site shall have available, appropriate
communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire safety
plan.
   (B)   (1)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the
permit holder or his or her representative leaves the site.
      (2)   No fire may be allowed to smolder with no person present.
      (3)   It is the responsibility of the permit holder to have a valid
permit, as required by this subchapter, available for inspection on the site by
the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA representative or DNR forest
officer.
   (C)   (1)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and
implementation of all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event
safety plan as established in the permit issued.
      (2)   The permit holder shall be responsible for all costs incurred as a
result of the burn, including but not limited to fire suppression and
administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   (A)   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of
DNR forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
   (B)   Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard
existing or developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of
the permit being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance
conditions developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with
no flame present.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 90.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.70 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22, as these statutes may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
§ 90.71 OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING FURNACES AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Outdoor wood furnaces and other similar detached heating facilities
are prohibited throughout the City of St. Charles.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be a moratorium on granting any permits pertaining
to outdoor wood burning furnaces or other detached heating facilities until
that date when permitted by law.
      (2)   The St. Charles Planning and Zoning Commission will conduct a study
and report back to the City Council within 30 days. The Commission shall
consider, but not be limited to, issues of air quality, effect on adjacent
property values, fire and children safety and any other factors, which may
affect the health, safety and welfare of residents.
      (3)   The adoption of this division (B) replaces the temporary stay on
granting any building permit pertaining to outdoor wood-burning furnaces that
was issued by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 487, passed - -; Ord. 486, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: TREES
Section
Shade Tree Diseases
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Office of City Forester
   
91.03   Definitions
   
91.04   Planting in public right-of-way
   
91.05   Trees affecting the public right-of-way
   
91.06   Care of right-of-way
   
91.07   Tree diseases policy
   
91.08   Dutch elm disease program
   
91.09   Diseased trees declared public nuisance
   
91.10   Inspection and investigation
   
91.11   Abatement of diseased tree nuisances
   
91.12   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood
   
91.13   Spraying elm trees
   
91.14   Transporting elm or oak prohibited
   
91.15   Regulations adopted by reference
SHADE TREE DISEASES
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to promote public safety, comfort and general
welfare, to conserve and protect property and property values, and to authorize
and regulate the planting, maintenance and protection of shade and ornament
trees along the city's streets, roads and alleys.
(1987 Code, § 602.01)
§ 91.02 OFFICE OF CITY FORESTER.
   (A)   There is hereby created the Office of City Forester. The City Forester
shall be appointed by the Park Board with the advice and consent of the
Council.
   (B)   The Park Board shall annually include in their budget governing parks
and parkways their estimate of the amount of money required by the Office of
City Forester for the succeeding year.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the City Forester to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter and the Forester shall have specific charge and shall exercise
immediate supervision and control of planting, maintaining, protecting and
removing all trees located on public streets, roads and alleys.
(1987 Code, § 602.02)
§ 91.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSH OR SHRUB. A low spreading woody plant with several permanent stems.
   CITY FORESTER. The City Forester or an authorized representative.
   PERSON. Includes any person, firm, association, organization, partnership,
business trust, corporation, company, city employee or city department head
other than the Office of City Forester.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Includes all streets, roads, alleys and the public property
adjacent to a street, road or alley.
   TREE. A woody perennial plant with 1 main stem or trunk having a diameter of
at least 2 inches 1 foot above the ground and which is capable of attaining a
height in excess of 10 feet above the ground.
(1987 Code, § 602.03)
§ 91.04 PLANTING IN PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall plant any tree in any public right-
of-way without having first secured a permit therefor from the City Forester.
Each permit shall be valid for a period of not more than 60 days.
   (B)   Planting specifications. Unless otherwise authorized in writing by the
City Forester, any tree so planted shall be of a kind approved by the City
Forester, shall be planted not less than 45 feet from any other tree in the
public street, road or alley, shall be planted in a location approved by the
City Forester, shall have a ration of 2/3 clear stem to 1/3 crown, which ratio
shall be maintained until a time as a clear stem is 8 feet higher than the
surrounding ground level.
   (C)   Trees prohibited. No person shall plant any of the following kinds of
trees in any public right-of-way: nut bearing, conifers, cottonwood, box elder,
willow, poplar, black locust, catalpa, birch and all trees of the fast growing
and nondurable varieties.
(1987 Code, § 602.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.05 TREES AFFECTING THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Trimming and removal required.
      (1)   The owner or occupant of any private property shall keep all trees
standing on private property so trimmed that no bough or branch thereof shall
hang lower than 8 feet above the surface of a public sidewalk or 12 feet above
the surface of the portion of the street or alley traveled by vehicles.
      (2)   The owner or occupant of any private property shall remove or cause
to be removed any dead tree or dead or broken bough or branch on a tree
standing on private property and overhanging any public right-of-way.
   (B)   Superintendent’s authority. The City Forester is authorized and
directed to summarily remove any tree or bough or branch of a tree standing on
any private property and overhanging any public right-of-way, when in his or
her judgment, the presence of a like tree, bough or branch constitutes an
imminent danger to persons on private or public property.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. No person shall perform any of the following acts:
      (1)   Maliciously injure any trees growing on any public right-of-way;
      (2)   Allow any wire or other foreign object to touch any tree growing on
any public right-of-way, without first having secured a permit therefor from
the City Forester. No permit shall be granted except for good cause;
      (3)   Impede the free passage of water and air to any tree growing on any
public right-of-way; or
      (4)   Remove or cause to be removed any tree from any public right-of-way
without having first secured a permit therefor from the City Forester. Each
permit shall be valid for a period of not more than 60 days.
   (D)   Permissible acts. The owner or occupant of any private premises
abutting on any public right-of-way may maintain and protect any tree standing
on a public right-of-way, providing that in doing so the owner or occupant
complies with the provisions of this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 602.05)
§ 91.06 CARE OF RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The owner or occupant of any private premises abutting on any public right-
of-way shall plant, maintain and care for grass in the earthen border lying
between the private premises and the vehicular-traveled portion of the public
street or alley.
(1987 Code, § 602.06)
§ 91.07 TREE DISEASES POLICY.
   (A)   The Council determines that the health of the elm and oak trees within
the municipal limits is threatened by fatal diseases known as dutch elm and oak
wilt diseases, and other trees may be threatened by other epidemic diseases of
shade trees.
   (B)   It further determines that the loss of elm, oak and other trees
growing upon public and private property would substantially depreciate the
value of property within the city and impair the safety, good order, general
welfare and convenience of the public.
   (C)   It is the intention of the Council to control and prevent the spread
of those diseases, and the following provisions are enacted for that purpose.
(1987 Code, § 602.07)
§ 91.08 DUTCH ELM DISEASE PROGRAM.
   (A)   The Council intends to conduct a program of plant pest control
pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 18.022, as it may be amended from
time to time. This program is directed specifically at the control and
elimination of dutch elm disease fungus or elm bark beetles and is undertaken
at the recommendation of the Commissioner of Agriculture.
   (B)   The City Forester shall act as a coordinator between the Commissioner
of Agriculture and the Council for this program. In addition to the specific
control and elimination of dutch elm disease fungus and elm bark beetles, this
program is also directed at the control and elimination of other fatal tree
diseases such as oak wilt.
(1987 Code, § 602.08)
§ 91.09 DISEASED TREES DECLARED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   (A)   Nuisance trees. The following are public nuisances within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the dutch elm disease fungus ceratocystis ulmi (buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylurgopinus Rufipes (Mars);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed
and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide; and
      (3)   Any tree or part thereof including logs, branches, stumps, firewood
or other oak material which exhibits the symptoms of oak wilt including but not
limited to unusual or premature changes in leaf coloration, disease fungus or
fungus bulges in bark.
   (B)   Abatement.
      (1)   No person shall permit any public nuisance diseased tree to remain
on any premises owned or controlled by that person within the city.
      (2)   These nuisances may be abated pursuant to
Chapter 90.
(1987 Code, § 602.09)
§ 91.10 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection.
      (1)   The City Forester shall inspect all premises and places within the
city as often as practical to determine whether any trees are public nuisances
or whether a potential hazard to the livelihood of trees in the city exists.
      (2)   The Forester shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles or oak wilt.
   (B)   Entering private property. The City Forester or a duly authorized
agent may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time to carry out the
assigned duties.
   (C)   Disease diagnosis.
      (1)   Upon finding conditions indicating dutch elm infestation or oak
wilt, the City Forester shall immediately send appropriate specimens or samples
to the Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take other diagnostic steps
recommended by the Commissioner.
      (2)   Except as provided in §
91.09 above, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until
positive diagnosis of the disease has been made.
(1987 Code, § 602.10)
§ 91.11 ABATEMENT OF DISEASED TREE NUISANCES.
   (A)   In abating diseased tree nuisances, the City Forester shall cause the
infected tree or wood to be sprayed, removed, burned or otherwise effectively
treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of dutch
elm disease fungus, elm bark beetles or oak wilt.
   (B)   Abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with current
technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by the
Commissioner of Agriculture.
(1987 Code, § 602.11)
§ 91.12 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES AND WOOD.
   (A)   Choice of actions. Whenever the City Forester finds with reasonable
certainty a diseased tree or wood that is a public nuisance, the City Forester
shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   If the danger of infesting other trees is not imminent because of
dormancy, the City Forester shall make a written report of the finding to the
Council which shall proceed by abating the nuisance as a public improvement
under M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   Abate the nuisance as provided in division (C) below.
   (B)   Imminent danger. If the City Forester finds that danger of infestation
of other trees is imminent, the City Forester shall notify the abutting
property owner by certified mail that the nuisance will be abated within a
specified time, not less than 5 days from the date of mailing of the notice.
The City Forester shall immediately report the action to the Council and, after
the expiration of the time limited by the notice, the City Forester may abate
the nuisance.
   (C)   Abatement order and notice.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the City Forester's report required by division (A)
(1) above, the Council shall order the nuisance abated by resolution. Before
action is taken on the resolution, the Council shall publish notice of its
intention to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance.
      (2)   This notice shall be mailed to affected property owners and
published once, no less than 1 week prior to the meeting. The notice shall
state the time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, action proposed,
the estimated cost of the abatement and the proposed basis of assessment, if
any, of costs.
      (3)   At the hearing, the Council shall hear property owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed project. The Council
shall adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with modifications
it considers desirable and provide for the work by day labor or by contract.
   (D)   Costs and assessments.
      (1)   The City Forester shall keep a record of the costs of abatements
done under this section and shall report monthly to the City Administrator all
work for which assessments are to be made stating and certifying the
description of the land, lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to
each.
      (2)   On or before September 1 of each year, the City Administrator shall
list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate lot or
parcel to which they are attributable under this code. The Council may then
spread the charges of any portion thereof against the property involved as a
special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and
collection the following year along with current taxes.
(1987 Code, § 602.12)
§ 91.13 SPRAYING ELM TREES.
   (A)   Spraying authorized.
      (1)   Whenever the City Forester determines that any elm tree or elm wood
within the city is infected with dutch elm fungus, he or she may spray all
nearby high value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle destroying
concentrate.
      (2)   Whenever the City Forester determines that any tree is infected
with oak wilt, he or she may spray all nearby high value oak trees with an
effective fungus destroying concentrate.
   (B)   Supervision. Spraying activities authorized by this section shall be
conducted in accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans of the
Commissioner of Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and
the Commissioner's agents whenever possible.
   (C)   Notice. The notice provisions of §
91.12 above apply to spraying operations conducted under this section.
(1987 Code, § 602.13)
§ 91.14 TRANSPORTING ELM OR OAK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Transportation prohibited. No person shall transport within the city
any bark bearing elm wood, diseased oak wood or potentially diseased oak wood
without having obtained a permit from the City Forester. The City Forester
shall grant permits only when the purposes of this code will be served thereby.
   (B)   Stockpiling permitted. Bark bearing elm wood may be stockpiled within
the city limits of the city from September 15 through April 1 of any given
year. Any wood not utilized by April 1 of any year must then be removed and
disposed of as provided by this code.
   (C)   Conflicting and inconsistent parts. Provisions of this subchapter that
conflict or are inconsistent with any other parts of this code supersede the
other parts except where a provision from another part is more restrictive.
Then the more restrictive provision shall apply and control.
(1987 Code, § 602.14) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.15 REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Sections 1.0109 through 1.0111 of 3 Minnesota Code of Agency Rules
Department of Agriculture, Shade Tree Program (1978 Edition) together with
amendments, are hereby adopted by reference, except as hereinafter provided. A
copy of these agency rules is on file in the office of the City Administrator.
(1987 Code, § 602.15)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Animals Generally
   
92.001   Definitions
   
92.002   License required
   
92.003   Records kept
   
92.004   Running at large
   
92.005   Impoundment
   
92.006   Notice of impoundment
   
92.007   Redemption
   
92.008   Proceedings for destruction of certain dogs
   
92.009   Summary destruction of certain dogs
   
92.010   Boarding facilities, breeding facilities, and kennels
   
92.011   Interference with officers
   
92.012   Rabies vaccination
   
92.013   Animals which have bitten
   
92.014   Pet sanitation
   
92.015   [Reserved]
   
92.016   [Reserved]
   
92.017   Abandonment and stray cats
   
92.018   Confinement of certain cats
   
92.019   Keeping of nuisance cats prohibited
   
92.020   Cats which cannot be impounded
   
92.021   Cruelty to pets
   
92.022   Bite cases
   
92.023   Protection for cats
   
92.024   Keeping or harboring of non-domestic animals prohibited
   
92.025   Violation; validity
Multiple Pets
   
92.050   Limitation on numbers of dogs and cats
   
92.051   Multiple pet permit
   
92.052   Exceptions to the multiple pet permit requirement
Dangerous Animals
   
92.055   Definitions
   
92.056   Restrictions
   
92.057   License required
   
92.058   Investigation permitted
   
92.059   Permit fee
   
92.060   Exceptions
   
92.061   Running at large; impoundment
   
92.062   Statutes adopted by reference
   
92.063   Variances
   
92.064   Procedure
   
92.065   Appeals
Urban Chickens
   
92.070   Definitions of urban chickens
   
92.071   Purpose of chickens
   
92.072   Permitting
   
92.073   General permit requests
   
92.074   Running at large
   
92.075   Enforcement
Dangerous Dogs
   
92.080   Dangerous dogs
   
92.081   Regulation of potentially dangerous dogs
   
92.082   Proper enclosure
   
92.083   Confiscation
   
92.084   Violation
Pigeons
   
92.095   Control of pigeon population
   
92.096   Pigeon shoot
 
   
92.999    Penalty
ANIMALS GENERALLY
§ 92.001 DEFINITIONS.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER or POUND. Any premises designated by the City Council for the
purpose or impounding or caring for animals held under the authority of this
subchapter.
   AT LARGE. Off the owner’s premises and not under the control of the owner or
some person of suitable age and discretion, either by leash, cord or chain of
not more than 8 feet in length, or otherwise. A dog under the control solely by
means of command or signal shall not be considered under control for the
purpose of this subchapter. A dog properly confined within a motor vehicle or
properly confined within an enclosure, house or any other building, or retained
within an enclosure, house or other building by leash, shall not be considered
AT LARGE.
   DOG. Both male and female dogs.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL or ANIMAL. Any of various non-venomous animals domesticated
so as to live and breed in a tame condition. DOMESTIC ANIMALS do not include
any animal considered "non-domestic" as defined by this section. DOMESTIC
ANIMALS are limited to:
      (1)   Dogs: Canis lupus familiaris;
      (2)   Cats: Felis catus;
      (3)   Rabbits: Order Lagomorpha;
      (4)   Ferrets: Mustela putorius furo;
      (5)   Any of the class of Aves (birds) that are caged and otherwise kept
inside the residence;
      (6)   Any of the class of Aves (birds) kept under the owners or
caretakers control and within properties that are zoned Rural Residential or
Agricultural by the St. Charles Zoning Code, further providing that those birds
are not free to leave the property;
      (7)   Any of the order of Rodentia such as mice, rats, gerbils, hamsters,
chinchillas and guinea pigs;
      (8)   Any of the class of Reptilia such as snakes, lizards, and turtles
excepting those meeting the non-domestic animal definition;
      (9)   Any of the class of Amphibian such as salamanders, frogs, toads
excepting those meeting the non-domestic animal definition;
      (10)   Any of the order of Erinaceomorpha such as hedgehogs and moon
rats; and
      (11)   Sugar gliders: Petaurus breviceps.
   KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, abode, or vehicle where three or
more dogs are kept and maintained, with the exception of locations where the
owners have been issued a multiple animal permit. KENNEL does not include a
veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of Minnesota who keeps,
congregates or confines dogs in the normal pursuit of the practice of
veterinary medicine. KENNEL does not include an animal shelter owned and
operated by any political subdivision of the state or providing animal
sheltering services under contract with any political subdivision of the state.
   OWNER. Any person, keeper, custodian or legal entity owning, harboring or
keeping an animal, whether temporary or permanent.
   PET. A dog or cat to be licensed.
   POLICE OR POLICE OFFICER .The POLICE OFFICERS of the City of St. Charles
and/or any firm, agency or company hired by the City of St. Charles to assist
the police in the performance of their duties with regard to enforcement of
this subchapter.
   PREMISES. Any building, structure, shelter or land whereupon animals are
kept or confined.
   PROVOCATION. An act that a person could reasonably expect may cause an
animal to attack or bite.
   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Those animals considered to be naturally wild and not
naturally trained or domesticated; or which are considered to be inherently
dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of people. Unless otherwise
defined, NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS shall include:
      (1)   Any member of the cat family (Felidae) including, but not limited
to, lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding those
recognized as domesticated house cats.
      (2)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (Canidae) including,
but not limited to, wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding
those recognized as domesticated dogs.
      (3)   Any hybrid or crossbreeds between an animal defined in divisions
(1) or (2) and a domestic animal and offspring from all subsequent generations
of those hybrids or crosses, such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog.
      (4)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, or squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
      (5)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including, but not limited to,
rattlesnakes, boa constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
      (6)   Goats, ducks, peacocks, miniature or pot-belly pigs, poultry,
horses, cattle, llama, bison, except as allowed by the City of St. Charles Land
Development Code.
      (7)   Any other animal that is not explicitly listed above but which can
be reasonably defined by the terms of this section including, but not limited
to exotic animals, non-human primates, bear, deer, and game fish.
   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or which causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ, or which causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely agitated or
disturbed. It is a rebuttable presumption that any attack on a child 14 years
of age or younger for which a reasonable person connotes an intent to inflict
bodily harm will be considered to be UNPROVOKED unless the child is engaged in
the commission of a crime or illegal activity, including activities classified
under M.S. Ch. 343 as cruelty to animals.
(1987 Code, § 403.01) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. It will be unlawful for any person to own, keep or
harbor any pet over 12 months of age within the city, without having obtained a
license, subject to the limitations of §§
92.050 et seq.
      (1)   Pet licenses. No license will be issued for any pet unless the
applicant presents proof that the pet has been immunized against rabies as
required.
      (2)   Information required. The owner is required to state the pet's
name, sex, age (DOB if known), breed, color, and rabies vaccination
manufacturer and rabies tag number on each license application.
      (3)   Date of payment of license fee. It is the duty of the owner of a
pet required to be licensed to pay the license fee on or before September 30 in
each even year, or upon acquiring ownership or possession of an unlicensed pet,
or upon establishing residence in the city. All licenses will expire on
September 30 in each even year following its issuance.
      (4)   Non-refundable. No refunds will be made on any pet license fee
because of the removal of the pet from the city or because of the death of the
pet before the expiration of the license period.
      (5)   Prorate. License fees will only be prorated 180 days (6 months)
prior to license expiration and will be charged 50% of the fee.
      (6)   Other information as the City Administrator or their designee
considers necessary.
   (B)   Tags.
      (1)   Upon approval of a pet license application, the applicant will be
provided with a tag which shall be permanently fastened to the collar of the
pet in such manner that the tag may be seen easily, and the tag will be worn
constantly by such pet.
      (2)   Replacement tags. When any pet tag is lost, a replacement may be
issued, upon presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the license fee
for the then current license term. Fees for duplicate tags will be established
by City Council.
      (3)   Offenses involving tags. It is unlawful to counterfeit, or attempt
to counterfeit, the tags provided for in this section or to remove from any pet
a tag legally placed upon it with the intent of placing it upon another pet, or
to place such tag upon another pet. It is unlawful for any person to transfer
any tag issued, or to place a tag upon any pet other than the one for which it
was issued, provided a tag may be transferred with the pet for which it was
issued.
   (C)   The annual license fee shall be established by City Council ordinance.
   (D)   Public notice. City Hall personnel will cause a notice of the
necessity of obtaining a pet license and paying such license fee to be
published in the official newspaper of the city twice before September 30, in
each even year, the last publication to be at least 1 week prior to such date.
If any owner does not obtain a license for his or her pet by this date, a late
license fee will be added onto the regular pet license fee.
   (E)   Limitations. Except for kennels licensed under this subchapter and/or
animal owners who have been issued a multiple animal permit as designated in
the subchapter, the following limits on animals will apply:
      (1)   Properties with single family homes and no other dwelling units.
         (a)   No more than three dogs over 12 months of age shall be owned,
kept or harbored on the premises.
         (b)   No more than three cats over 12 months of age shall be owned,
kept or harbored on the premises.
         (c)   Congregate limit. No more than ten domestic animals may be kept
or harbored on the premises.
(1987 Code, § 403.02) (Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15; Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-
2020)
§ 92.003 RECORDS KEPT.
    The City Administrator or their designee shall prepare correct lists of all
pets licensed in accordance with §
92.002 above, setting forth the owner’s name and address and the name, number
and description of each pet licensed.
(1987 Code, § 403.03) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.004 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)    It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns,
harbors or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors or
keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or
accompanied by and under the control and direction of a responsible person, so
as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in
streets or on public land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading
“Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (C)   Dogs are permitted to be unleashed in the off-leash dog park as
designated by the City of St. Charles Park Department under the following
conditions:
      (1)   The owner of the dog must be present;
      (2)   The dog must be under the voice control of the owner at all times;
and
      (3)   Feces must be properly removed and disposed of in a trash
receptacle provided by the city within public parks or in a sanitary manner on
private property.
(Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.005 IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Dogs. The St. Charles Police Department or any duly authorized
assistants, or any peace officer, may impound any dog found in the city without
the currently effective tag provided for in this subchapter; or any dog found
at large at any time or found not to be kept, confined or licensed in the
manner required by this subchapter within the city.
   (B)   Cats. It will be lawful for the St. Charles Police Department or any
of their duly authorized assistants, or any peace officer, to take up and
impound any cat found in the city without a currently effective rabies
vaccination provided for in this subchapter; or any cat found at large at any
time within the city.
   (C)   Other animals. Any animal considered at large is subject to
impoundment. Any unrestrained, unlicensed or unpermitted animal required to be
restrained, licensed or permitted.
   (D)   Any owner shall produce for the inspection of the police his or her
pet's tag and/or a receipt indicating payment of the license fee when requested
by the official.
   (E)   No person shall interfere with, hinder or molest the police or any of
their assistants in the performance of their duties hereunder.
   (F)   Animals impounded under this section shall be confined and disposed of
in the following manner:
      (1)   Any dog or cat impounded under this section shall be confined in
the city animal shelter, in a private animal shelter or facility contracted
with by the city, and in a humane manner for a period of not less than 5
regular business days of the impounding agency, as defined by state law, if not
claimed prior thereto by its owner.
      (2)   Anytime thereafter the dog or cat shall become the property of the
city and may be disposed of in a humane manner or may be sold to or placed in
the custody of some other suitable person.
      (3)   If a dog or cat is destroyed pursuant to this section, the license
of the dog or cat shall expire.
   (G)   Immediately upon the impounding of a dog or cat wearing a current
license tag, the police shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner
of the impoundment and of the conditions whereby the owner may regain custody
of the dog or cat. Any verbal notices shall immediately be confirmed in writing
by the police.
(Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.006 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Within 1 day of taking and impounding any dog or cat, the City
Administrator or their designee shall post an impoundment notice in 1 or more
conspicuous place in the city.
   (B)   If the owner of an impounded dog or cat is known, written notice of
impounding, shall be given to the owner, in lieu of posted notice, either by
mail or personal service. The date of sale or destruction of the dog or cat
shall be the sixth day after the notice was posted or given unless that date
falls on a Sunday or holiday, in which case the sale or destruction shall be
the following day.
(1987 Code, § 403.07) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.007 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any dog or cat may be reclaimed from the animal shelter by its owner
within the time specified in the notice by paying the City Administrator or
their designee the license fee (if not paid for the current year) and the cost
of boarding, or presentation of a receipt showing payment of the boarding fee.
   (B)   Any animal that is not redeemed by the owner becomes the property of
the City of St. Charles. Suitable animals may be placed for adoption. Animals
may be euthanized or otherwise disposed of, as directed by the vet clinic.
   (C)   Notwithstanding this section, the owner shall remain subject to all
other penalties contained in this code.
(1987 Code, § 403.08) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.008 PROCEEDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)   Basis of summons.
      (1)   The Winona County District Court shall issue a summons to a dog
owner commanding the owner to appear before the court to show cause why the dog
should not be seized by a police officer, or otherwise disposed of as
authorized by this code upon receiving a complaint that any of the following
conditions exist:
         (a)   A dog at any time has destroyed property or habitually
trespassed, damaging property of persons other than the owner;
         (b)   A dog at any time has attacked or bitten a person off the
owner’s or custodian’s premises;
         (c)   A dog is vicious or shows vicious habits or molests pedestrians
or interferes with vehicles on public streets or highways;
         (d)   A dog is a public nuisance; or
         (e)   A dog is running at large in violation of this code.
      (2)   A summons shall be returnable not less than 2 nor more than 6 days
from the summons date and shall be served at least 2 days before the required
appearance.
   (B)   Order.
      (1)   Upon a hearing and finding the complaint facts true, the court may
order the dog destroyed, order the owner or custodian to remove the dog from
the city or order the owner or custodian to keep the dog confined to a
designated place.
      (2)   If the owner or custodian violates the order, a police officer may
impound the dog. The provisions of this part are in addition to and supplement
other provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Costs. Costs of the proceeding specified by this subchapter shall be
assessed against the owner or custodian, if the facts in the complaint are
found to be true; otherwise, costs shall be assessed against the complainant.
(1987 Code, § 403.09) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.009 SUMMARY DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   When an officer has reasonable cause to believe that a particular dog
presents a clear and immediate danger to city residents because it is infected
with rabies (hydrophobia) or has a clearly demonstrated vicious nature, the
officer may summarily destroy the dog after making reasonable attempts to
impound the animal.
(1987 Code, § 403.10) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.010 BOARDING FACILITIES, BREEDING FACILITIES, AND KENNELS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation, shall maintain in the city a facility
for boarding or breeding as a business without securing a license from the
Council. The license fee shall be by City Council ordinance.
   (B)   No person will maintain a kennel within the city except in a location
listed as a permitted or conditional use by the zoning ordinance. The kennel
license will be in addition to the license prescribed in preceding sections for
each dog kept in such kennel, and the license fee will be fixed from time to
time by ordinance or resolution of the Council. The kennel license will be
obtained in the same manner as the dog license. The fee will be based upon the
maximum number of dogs handled at the kennel. The license will expire annually
on December 31 of each year.
(1987 Code, § 403.12) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.011 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to break open the animal shelter,
or to attempt to do so, or to take or let out any animal, or to take, or
attempt to take, from any officer any animal taken by them in compliance with
this subchapter, or in any manner to interfere with or hinder such officer in
the discharge of their duties under this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 403.13) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.012 RABIES VACCINATION.
   (A)   Dogs and cats rabies immunization required. All dogs and cats over the
age of 12 months harbored or maintained within the city shall be immunized
against rabies by a licensed veterinarian. The vaccines used and their duration
of immunity against rabies will be as recommended by the National Association
of State Public Health Veterinarians (NASPHV) in their annual Compendium of
Animal Rabies Prevention and Control.
      (1)   Exceptions. No dog or cat need be vaccinated when a licensed
veterinarian has examined the animal and certified that, at such time,
vaccination would endanger its health because of its age, infirmity, debility,
illness, or other medical consideration; and such exception certificate is
presented to the animal control officer. The animal shall be vaccinated against
rabies as soon as its health and age permit.
      (2)   A veterinarian who vaccinates a dog or cat shall prepare and
deliver to the owner a certificate of vaccination in duplicate, setting forth
the name and address of the owner, information sufficient to identify the dog
or cat vaccinated, and the type of vaccine used.
      (3)   In addition, the veterinarian shall issue to the owner a
distinctive metal tag to be shown to the City Administrator or their designee,
which sets forth the year of vaccination.
      (4)   The owner shall forthwith cause the dog or cat to wear this tag on
a collar until the next vaccination.
      (5)   No dog or cat shall be licensed by the City Administrator or their
designee which has not been vaccinated against rabies as provided in this
section during the 2-year period immediately preceding the date application for
license is made.
   (B)   Dogs, cats or other animals known to have been bitten or exposed to a
rabid animal must be euthanized immediately or the animal's owner must adhere
to procedures as described in the NAHSPV Compendium of Animal Rabies Prevention
and Control. Notification of exposure shall be made immediately to the St.
Charles Police Department. Costs associated with exposure are incurred at the
animal owner's expense.
   (C)   Disposition of diseased dogs, cats or other animals. If a dog, cat or
other animal quarantined under this chapter is found to be sick or diseased,
the operator of the quarantine facility will immediately report in writing to
City Hall the condition of the dog or animal. The city may then take possession
of the dog, cat or animal for the purpose of submitting it to determine if it
is suffering from rabies. A diseased dog, cat or animal may be euthanized, if
it is determined such action necessary for the protection of public health and
safety, as recommended by a licensed veterinarian. If a quarantined animal
sickens or dies, it shall be sent to the Minnesota Department of Health for
rabies testing. The owner of the animal is responsible for the cost of
quarantine, veterinary fees and testing.
(1987 Code, § 403.15) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.013 ANIMALS WHICH HAVE BITTEN.
   (A)   When an animal has bitten a person or there is good reason to believe
that the animal has bitten a person, that fact shall be reported within 24
hours to the City Chief of Police and thereafter the owner of the animal shall
comply with the City Chief of Police's instruction concerning the animal.
   (B)   Whenever any animal capable of transmitting the rabies virus has
bitten any person or domestic animal, the owner or custodian of the biting
animal, upon being notified by the St. Charles Police Department, will
immediately cause the animal to be quarantined at the city approved animal
shelter or pound, or by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of
Minnesota and approved by the Chief of Police, for a period of 10 days after
the bite incident. The St. Charles Police Department may allow the owner to
quarantine the animal if proof of current rabies vaccination is provided.
   (C)   Release from quarantine. At the end of 10 days, a veterinarian shall
examine the animal to ascertain whether symptoms of rabies exist. If the
veterinarian diagnoses the animal to be free of the signs of rabies, the animal
shall be released from quarantine. If a quarantined animal sickens or dies, it
shall be sent to the Minnesota Department of Health for rabies testing. The
owner of the animal is responsible for the cost of quarantine, veterinary fees
and testing.
(1987 Code, § 403.16) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.014 PET SANITATION.
   (A)   Dog and cat excrement. It is unlawful for any person who owns or has
custody of a dog or cat to cause or permit such animal to defecate on any
private property without the consent of the property owner or on any public
property, unless such person immediately removes the excrement and places it in
a proper receptacle. The provisions of this section shall not apply to seeing
eye dogs under the control of a blind person or dogs while being used in city
police activity.
   (B)   Penalty. Violations of this section shall be charged at the discretion
of law enforcement either as an administrative citation pursuant to §
34.01, or as a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 632, passed 5-26-2021)
§ 92.015 [RESERVED].
§ 92.016 [RESERVED].
§ 92.017 ABANDONMENT AND STRAY CATS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this subchapter for any person to abandon
any cat or permit any cat to become a stray.
   (B)   For the purposes of this subchapter, an ABANDONED CAT is one which is
let unattended off the premises of its owner for a period of 72 hours or more.
   (C)   For the purposes of this subchapter, a STRAY CAT is one having no
known owner or custodian or known place of care and shelter.
(1987 Code, § 404.04) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.018 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN CATS.
   (A)   The owner of a cat shall confine within a building or secure enclosure
every fierce, dangerous or vicious cat and not permit the cat out of the
enclosure unless the cat is in the direct control of a competent person.
   (B)   Every female cat in heat shall be confined in a manner so that the
female cat cannot come in contact with another cat except for planned breeding.
(1987 Code, § 404.05) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.019 KEEPING OF NUISANCE CATS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of any cat shall prevent the cat from
committing in the city any act which constitutes a nuisance.
   (B)   It is a nuisance for any cat to habitually or frequently howl, cry or
loudly mew at night, to frequent school grounds, or parks, to molest or annoy
any person away from the property of its owner or custodian, or to damage,
defile or destroy public or private property, plantings or structures.
   (C)   Failure of the owner of a cat to prevent the cat from committing a
nuisance is a violation of this subchapter.
(1987 Code, § 404.06) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.020 CATS WHICH CANNOT BE IMPOUNDED.
   If a cat subject to impoundment pursuant to this subchapter is diseased,
vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to rabies, and the cat cannot be impounded
after reasonable effort, or cannot be impounded without serious risk to the
persons attempting to impound, the cat may be immediately killed.
(1987 Code, § 404.10) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.021 CRUELTY TO PETS.
   The police may take possession of any dog or cat which is being kept in a
cruel or inhumane manner, or when it is necessary to impound the dog or cat as
herein provided by this subchapter and within M.S. §§ 343.20 through 343.40.
(1987 Code, § 404.12) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.022 BITE CASES.
   It shall be the duty of every physician or any other person to report to the
police the names and addresses of persons treated for bites inflicted by
animals within the City of St. Charles, together with other information as will
be helpful in rabies control.
(1987 Code, § 404.13) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.023 PROTECTION FOR CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place upon the ground, or in any other
manner, any poison, bait, ground glass or any other device or thing intended to
harm a cat.
(1987 Code, § 404.14) (Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.024 KEEPING OR HARBORING OF NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall own, care for, have custody or control of, within the
city limits, any non-domestic animal as defined in this subchapter.
   (B)   Exceptions. An exception may be made to this prohibition for the
following:
      (1)   Non-domestic animals specifically trained for and actually
providing assistance to the handicapped or disabled;
      (2)   Animals permitted as provided by the Land Usage Code of the City of
St. Charles;
      (3)   For those non-domestic animals temporarily brought into the city as
part of a licensed or permitted operating petting zoo;
      (4)   Veterinarian clinics;
      (5)   Licensed wildlife rehabilitators currently licensed by the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources;
      (6)   For traveling exhibitions which keep non-domestic animals for
exhibition or show, provided that the person, traveling circus, zoo or show
holds a valid USDA license, and has obtained a state permit, provided that such
non-domestic animals are not kept in the city more than 14 days per year; and
      (7)   For educational institutions.
(Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.025 VIOLATION; VALIDITY.
   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
(1987 Code, §§ 404.15, 404.16) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008; Am. Ord. 625,
passed 9-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
MULTIPLE PETS
§ 92.050 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS AND CATS.
    No household shall own, keep or harbor more than 3 dogs over 12 months of
age, or 3 cats over 12 months of age, without first obtaining a multiple pet
permit pursuant to §
92.051.
(Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15; Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.051 MULTIPLE PET PERMIT.
   (A)    In order to own more than 3 dogs over 12 months of age, or 3 cats
over 12 months of age, a multiple pet permit is required. Such permit shall be
issued by the City Administrator or their designee, upon receipt of a complete
application from the owner on a form to be provided by the city, and any
additional information reasonably required by the city to evaluate the
conditions in which the pets will be kept, payment of the permit fee pursuant
to division (B) of this section, and a determination by the Chief of Police
that adequate facilities exist, and the owner is of sufficient character and
means to ensure that such pets will be kept in clean, humane conditions free of
contamination and disease, and in such a manner as to minimize noise and odors.
Such permit shall be valid upon payment of the multiple permit fee and a
demonstration of continued compliance with the permit requirements. Multiple
pet permits shall only be granted with a condition that the property subject to
the permit allow inspection of the property by city staff or law enforcement by
advanced written notice to the property owner. Failure to allow an inspection
shall be a basis for permit revocation under division (C).
   (B)   A multiple pet permit fee in an amount to be established by Council
ordinance shall be due and payable to the city at the time of permit
application. This fee shall be in addition to the regular license fee
established by the City Council pursuant to §
92.002.
   (C)   All owners granted multiple pet permits shall maintain the premises
and areas where the permitted animals are kept in a clean and humane condition,
free from all contamination and diseases and so as to minimize odors and
noises, and if the permit is for more than 3 dogs, such premises shall be
equipped with a fence that provides an enclosed area from which the animals may
not exit without human assistance. Failure to meet such requirements will
subject owners to revocation of the multiple pet permit by the City
Administrator or their designee. The owner may appeal any such permit
revocation by requesting a formal hearing, which must be made in writing to the
City Administrator, before the City Council. If necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare, the City Animal Control Officer or law enforcement
officer may impound the animals pending the results of the hearing. In this
case, the owner shall tender with his or her request for the hearing, funds in
an amount sufficient to defray expenses of the keeping of the animal(s) pending
such hearing until the matter is eventually resolved.
(Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15; Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
§ 92.052 EXCEPTIONS TO MULTIPLE PET PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   A multiple pet permit shall not be required for premises on which:
   (A)   More than the allowed number of domestic animals are kept in a
commercial breeding facility licensed pursuant to M.S. §§ 347.57 through
347.64; or
   (B)   More than the allowed number of domestic animals are kept for the
business of breeding dogs or cats or both for sale, and there are no more than
a total of 2 litters of offspring (dogs or cats) per calendar year.
(Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15; Am. Ord. 625, passed 9-8-2020)
DANGEROUS ANIMALS
§ 92.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Cattle, horses, ponies, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ducks, geese,
turkeys, chickens and other domesticated birds, reptiles and animals. The term
animal does not include dogs, or domesticated cats (which are regulated in §§
92.00 through
92.044) or other small animals which are regarded as traditional household
pets, as defined herein.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
      (1)   Any wild animal, reptile or fowl which is not naturally tame or
gentle but is of a wild nature or disposition and which, because of its size,
vicious nature or other characteristics would constitute a danger to human life
or property if it is not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure
quarters.
      (2)   The term DANGEROUS ANIMAL also means and includes any domestic
mammal, reptile or fowl which because of its size or vicious propensity or
other characteristic, would constitute a danger to human life or property if it
is not kept or maintained in a safe manner or in secure quarters. Guard dogs
are specifically excluded from this definition.
   KEEPING AND MAINTAINING. The feeding of or sheltering of animals.
   OWNER. Any person as defined in this section owning, harboring, keeping or
having custody of any animal as defined herein.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Permitting any animal to go on or about any property,
streets, alleys, public parks, school grounds or other public places or any
private premises except the premises of the owner. An animal, as defined in
this section, is not at large when within an adequate and adequately maintained
fenced-in enclosure.
(1987 Code, § 606.01)
§ 92.056 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall keep or maintain any animal other than traditional
household pets within the residential area.
   (B)   The residential area is delineated on a map in City Hall and may be
redelineated from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal violation.
(1987 Code, § 606.02) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.057 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any dangerous animal
without a special permit therefor from the city.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued for a period exceeding 1 year and the permit
shall specify the conditions under which the animal shall be kept.
   (C)   The Chief of Police or the Chief of Police's designated agent shall
issue a special permit for the purpose of keeping or maintaining a dangerous
animal if it is found that:
      (1)   The animal is at all times kept or maintained in a safe manner and
confined securely so that the keeping of the animal will not constitute a
danger to human life or property of others;
      (2)   Adequate safeguards are made to prevent unauthorized access to
animals by members of the public;
      (3)   The health or well being of the animal is not in any way endangered
by the manner of keeping or confinement;
      (4)   The keeping of the animal does not constitute a nuisance and will
not harm the surrounding neighborhood or disturb the peace and quiet of the
surrounding neighborhood;
      (5)   The keeping of the animal will not create or cause offensive odors
or constitute a danger to public health;
      (6)   The quarters in which the animal is kept or confined are adequately
lighted, ventilated and are so constructed that they may be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition; or
      (7)   (a)   The applicant for a special permit proves his or her ability
to respond in damages up to and including the amount of $100,000 for bodily
injury to or death of any person or persons or for the damage to property owned
by any other persons which may result from the ownership, keeping or
maintenance of the animal.
         (b)   Proof of ability to respond in damages may be given by filing
with the Chief of Police of the Chief of Police's designated agent a
certificate of insurance stating that the applicant is, at the time of his or
her application, and will be during the period of a special permit, insured
against liability and able to respond to damages, or by posting with the city a
surety bond, approved by the City Attorney, in the amount of $100,000.
         (c)   The certificate of insurance or bond shall provide that no
cancellation of the insurance or bond will be made unless 10 days written
notice is first given to the city.
   (D)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal violation.
(1987 Code, § 606.03) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.058 INVESTIGATION PERMITTED.
   The Chief of Police or the Chief of Police's designated agent may
investigate any applicant for a special permit under this provision or any
enforcement of this provision, and are authorized to consult and seek the
advice of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty of Animals, the Humane
Society, any representative of the Animal Control Center of the County, if
there is one, or any other individual, agency, organization or society which
may be able to provide information and advice concerning the keeping and
maintaining of dangerous animals.
(1987 Code, § 606.04)
§ 92.059 PERMIT FEE.
   Upon compliance with all sections of this subchapter, a special permit shall
be issued with an annual fee of $50, provided that the permit shall not be
issued for the keeping of more than 2 dangerous animals at any single location.
(1987 Code, § 606.05)
§ 92.060 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to the keeping and maintaining of dangerous
animals in the following cases:
   (A)   The keeping or maintaining of an animal for exhibition to the public
by a traveling circus, carnival or other exhibit or show holding a permit
issued by the Commissioner of Natural Resources pursuant to M.S. § 97.611, as
it may be amended from time to time;
   (B)   The keeping and maintaining of dangerous animals in a licensed
veterinary hospital for treatment; and
   (C)   Dangerous or poisonous reptiles may be kept or maintained by a bona
fide educational or medical institution for the purpose of instruction or
study, provided that reptiles are securely confined and are properly cared for
in a manner satisfactory to the Chief of Police or the Chief of Police's
designated agent.
(1987 Code, § 606.06)
§ 92.061 RUNNING AT LARGE; IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   No owner or person shall permit an animal or dangerous animal to run
at large or uncontrolled anywhere within the city at any time.
   (B)   When necessary, the Chief of Police or the Chief of Police's
designated agent shall impound an animal or dangerous animal running at large.
   (C)   A police officer shall be present for any initial impoundment and is
authorized to harm the animal or dangerous animal only if necessary for their
or the public's safety.
      (1)   Impoundment fees shall be $15 per day minimum, but not to exceed
$25 per day. This rate shall be reviewed periodically by the City Council and
may be increased when deemed necessary. The owner of an animal or dangerous
animal shall be responsible for the impoundment fee.
      (2)   The owner of an animal or dangerous animal so impounded shall be
responsible for any veterinarian bills incurred during impoundment.
      (3)   Any animal or dangerous animal deceased during impoundment will be
disposed of according to law. Disposal expenses shall be paid by the owner of
the deceased animal or dangerous animal.
      (4)   If after 7 days of impoundment the animal or dangerous animal has
not been claimed, the animal or dangerous animal will be appraised for sale,
and after proper public notification, the animal or dangerous animal will be
sold at public auction. Monies received from the sale at public auction shall
be retained by the city to cover impoundment costs, costs of sale and to assist
in their continuing program within the city.
      (5)   (a) Any party claiming an impounded animal or dangerous animal must
show proof of ownership satisfactory to the city or its designated agent.
         (b)   All fees due will be paid in cash before release of animal or
dangerous animal.
         (c)   The claiming party must present a valid driver's license of
other acceptable form of identification and must sign for the animal or
dangerous animal before it will be released.
   (D)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal violation.
(1987 Code, § 606.07) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.062 STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Minnesota Statutes §§ 343.21 to 343.28, as they may be amended from to time,
relating to the cruelty of animals are adopted by reference and incorporated
herein and made a part of this section as though fully set forth.
(1987 Code, § 606.08)
§ 92.063 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission as specified in the City of St. Charles Zoning
Ordinance shall have the power to vary from the requirements of this
subchapter, and to attach conditions to the variance as it deems necessary to
assure compliance with the purpose of the ordinance.
   (B)   Any person requesting a variance from the terms of this subchapter
shall submit the following exhibits to the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   The names and addresses of all property owners within 300 feet of
the property lines shall be provided so that the Zoning Administrator may
provide notification of the variance request; and
      (2)   Submission of documents including site plans, improvement layouts
and specifications and other documents to completely set forth the variance
requested including outlines for the operation and use of the property if the
variance is granted. The documents shall include addressing health, safety and
humane requirements of the animals as well as the effect of the proposal upon
residents of the City of St. Charles.
(1987 Code, § 606.09)
§ 92.064 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure. Procedure for obtaining a variance from the regulations of
this subchapter is as follows:
      (1)   The property owner or agent shall file with the Zoning
Administrator an application form together with the required exhibits plus a
filing fee;
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the application directly to
the Planning Commission for consideration at its next regularly scheduled
meeting; and
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall, within 30 days of submittal of all
required exhibits, recommend approval, denial or conditional approval.
   (B)   Standards. The Planning Commission may vary the regulations of this
subchapter if all of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The variance, including any conditions placed thereon, observes the
spirit and intent of this subchapter to promote the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of St. Charles as well as ensuring the
humane treatment of the animals; and
      (2)   Persuasive proof that the variance is compatible with the
surrounding uses and property.
(1987 Code, § 606.10)
§ 92.065 APPEALS.
   An appeal from a ruling of the Planning Commission may be taken by the
property owner or agent within 30 days after the adverse order utilizing the
procedure as follows:
   (A)   The property owner or agent shall file a notice of appeal with the
Zoning Administrator stating the specific grounds upon which the appeal is
made; and
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit the appeal to the City Council
and the City Council shall schedule a hearing on the appeal and render its
decision by resolution. A copy of the resolution shall be mailed to the
applicant by the Zoning Administrator.
(1987 Code, § 606.11)
URBAN CHICKENS
§ 92.070 DEFINITIONS OF URBAN CHICKENS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided, due to the bird's inability to generate enough body heat.
   CHICKEN. A domesticated bird of the scientific name Gallus domesticus that
serves as a source of eggs or meat.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by this
subchapter.
   FOWL or POULTRY. Other members of the Galliformes order, including turkeys,
ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, and quail.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 92.071 PURPOSE OF CHICKENS.
   It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own food is a
sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pasttime. Therefore, it is
the purpose and intent of this subchapter to permit the keeping and maintenance
of chicken hens for eggs and meat sources in a clean and sanitary manner that
is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare
of the community.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 92.072 PERMITTING.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued by the City Clerk. Applications for permits
shall be made on forms provided by the Clerk.
   (B)   A chicken permit shall be valid for 1 year beginning January 1 of each
year. No reduction of permit fee shall be made because of expiration of a
portion of the permit period time and no refund of any portion of the permit
fee shall be made at any time for any purpose. Submission of a site plan or
sketch shall be required with the permit.
   (C)   The annual chicken permit fee shall be as set by ordinance of the City
Council. The permit fee shall be paid at the time of application.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016)
§ 92.073 GENERAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of any live chickens
without first obtaining a permit from the city, subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The owner of the chickens shall live in the dwelling on the property;
   (B)   The keeping of any poultry besides chickens is prohibited;
   (C)   All chicken coops and runs must meet the requirements of the building
and zoning codes; including electrical permits if applicable;
   (D)   No person shall keep roosters, or adult male chickens, on any property
within the city;
   (E)   Chickens are specifically limited to the following designated zoning
districts: R-1, R-3, R1-M, PUD-R, C-2, or A-1 (Ag);
   (F)   No more than 3 chickens shall be housed or kept per household in any
area of the city zoned R-1, R-3, R1-M, PUD-R, C-2, or A-1 (Ag);
   (G)   Permits may be revoked due to cruelty to the chickens, if the chickens
become a nuisance, or any violation or non-compliance of this subchapter;
   (H)   Outdoor slaughtering of chickens in city limits is prohibited;
   (I)   Chicken fighting shall not be allowed within city limits;
   (J)   Leg banding of all chickens is required and the bands will be provided
by the city. The bands will have an identifying number that will correspond to
the owner's name, address, and telephone number on record at City Hall;
   (K)   Chickens shall not be housed in a residential house;
   (L)   Chickens must be confined at all times in a chicken coop or chicken
run. Chicken coops and runs shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Chicken coops must not exceed 12 square feet (by outside
dimensions); which is 4 square feet per chicken or 6 feet in height. Coops must
be elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between the ground
and the floor or framing of the coops. Construction shall be adequate to
prevent access by rodents;
      (2)   Located in the side or rear yard;
      (3)   The shelter shall be situated closer to the chicken owner's
dwelling than to any of the neighboring dwellings;
      (4)   Any mobile coop or rolling coop must meet all of the required
setbacks at all times;
      (5)   Meet the setback of at least 25-feet from any residential dwelling
on any adjacent lot and at least 10 feet from the property lines; and
      (6)   Chicken runs must not exceed 30 square feet; which is 10 square
feet per chicken or 6 feet in height, and may be enclosed with wood or woven
wire;
   (M)   All premises on which chickens are kept or maintained shall be kept
clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The coop
and its surroundings must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor. Manure
shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary condition
or causes odors detectible on another property;
   (N)   All food shall be stored in an enclosed, rodent proof containers; and
   (O)   Dead chickens shall be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board of
Animal Health rules, which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of as soon
as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of chicken
carcass disposal include offsite burial, offsite incineration or rendering, or
offsite composting.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016; Am. Ord. 613, passed 1-2-2020)
§ 92.074 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner of any chicken, whether kept, harbored, or maintained within or
without the city, shall permit or suffer such chicken to run or move at large
at any time within the city. For the purpose of this section, every such
chicken at large shall be deemed at large with the permission and at the
sufferance of its owner, and in the event of a violation of the provisions of
this section, it shall be no defense that the offending chicken escaped or is
otherwise at large without the permission or sufferance of its owner.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.075 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Warning of violation. The animal control officer, police officer, or
other official of the city, is authorized to issue a written notice of
violation of any provisions(s) of this subchapter, therein stating that a
citation may be issued if the violation continues.
   (B)   Issuance of citations. Any police officer or any other authorized
representative of the law may issue a citation to any person, firm, or entity
for any alleged violations of this subchapter and any other ordinance or
statute which provides the basis for prosecution of violations of this
subchapter. Nothing within this subchapter shall be construed to limit the
authority of police officers to enforce any provisions of this subchapter or
related statutes or ordinances. The animal control officer, police officer, or
other official of the city, is authorized to issue a citation to any person,
group, or organization for any alleged violation of this subchapter as often as
each day the violation persists.
   (C)   Unless otherwise specified, any person violating the provisions of
this subchapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016)
DANGEROUS DOGS
§ 92.080 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 are adopted by reference
and govern dangerous dogs and potentially dangerous dogs in the city. The Chief
of Police, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for enforcing those
statutes, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Upon concluding that a dog is a dangerous dog or potentially dangerous
dog, the Chief of Police, or his or her designee, shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   Notify the owner by personal delivery or registered mail that the
dog has been declared to be dangerous or potentially dangerous as defined in
state statutes, and the factual basis for that determination. Notices of a
dangerous dog declaration shall advise the owner of the dog of any applicable
registration requirements or other restrictions or requirements imposed by
statute, and shall additionally advise the owner of the dog of the owner’s
right to request a hearing before the City Council to contest the declaration
by requesting such a hearing, in writing, submitted to the City Administrator
within 14 days after the owner’s receipt of the notice.
      (2)   If the owner does not request a hearing to contest a dangerous dog
declaration, or any prior potentially dangerous dog declaration for the dog, as
applicable, within 14 days after receipt of the notice, and does not otherwise
comply with the registration and other requirements of M.S. §§ 347.50 to
347.565, as amended, then the Chief of Police, or his/her designee, shall
immediately seize the dangerous dog and dispose of the same as authorized by
law.
      (3)   If the owner does request a hearing to contest a dangerous dog
declaration pursuant to division (A) herein, or any prior potentially dangerous
dog declaration for the dog, as applicable, then the City Clerk shall place the
matter before the City Council within 14 days after the city’s receipt of such
request, unless a later hearing date is agreed to by the owner. The owner may
present evidence in opposition to the designation of his or her dog as
dangerous or potentially dangerous. The Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, shall present evidence to the City Council that supports his or her
determination that the dog is dangerous. Following the hearing, the City
Council shall make a determination of facts and issue an order as to whether
such dog is properly characterized as dangerous. If the City Council affirms
the dangerous dog declaration, the owner shall comply with the registration and
other requirements of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565, as amended, within 14 days of
the order.
   (C)   Registration fee.  An annual registration fee for each dangerous dog
to be registered, in an amount to be established by Council resolution, shall
be due and payable to the city at the time of registration and annually
thereafter. This fee shall be in addition to the regular license fee
established by the City Council pursuant to §
92.002.
(Ord. 424, passed 3-11-1997, § 609.01; Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15)
§ 92.081 REGULATION OF POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Any owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall do the following,
except when the dog is lawfully engaged in hunting or training for the purpose
of hunting, accompanied by such owner:
      (1)   While the potentially dangerous dog is on the premises of the
owner, securely confine it at all times in a proper enclosure, a locked fenced
yard, or other locked enclosure that has a top; and
      (2)   While the potentially dangerous dog is off the premises of the
owner, keep it on a chain-link leash or tether that is not more than 6 feet in
length, and additionally do at least one of the following:
         (a)   Keep the dog in a locked pen with a top, a locked fenced yard,
or other locked enclosure with a top;
         (b)   Have the leash or tether controlled by a person who is of
suitable age and discretion or securely attach, tie or affix the leash or
tether to the ground or a stationary object or fixture so that the dog is
adequately restrained, and station a person in close enough proximity to that
dog so as to prevent it from causing injury to another person; or
         (c)   Muzzle the dog.
   (B)   No owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall fail to obtain liability
insurance with an insurer authorized to write liability insurance in this
state, providing coverage in each occurrence, subject to a limit, exclusive of
interest and costs, of not less than $50,000 because of damage or bodily injury
to, or death of, a person caused by the potentially dangerous dog.
   (C)   An animal that has been determined to be potentially dangerous must
have a microchip implanted in the dog for identification, and the name of the
microchip manufacturer and identification number of the microchip must be
provided to the Chief of Police.
   (D)   An owner of a dog declared to be a potentially dangerous dog may
request a review of that declaration by the city’s Public Safety Committee, by
submitting a written request for a hearing to the City Administrator within 14
days of the notice. If the owner timely requests such a hearing, the Public
Safety Committee shall conduct the hearing at its next regular meeting,
impartially consider any evidence submitted by the owner in opposition to the
potentially dangerous declaration, and the Chief of Police, or his or her
designee, in support of the potentially dangerous designation, and issue a
decision either affirming or denying the potentially dangerous declaration as
soon as reasonably possible. An owner’s failure to request such review of the
Chief of Police’s potentially dangerous dog declaration shall not prejudice the
owner’s right to have the City Council review the potentially dangerous
declaration in a proceeding under § 92.080(B) to challenge a subsequent
dangerous dog declaration for the same dog.
(Ord. 424, passed 3-11-1997, § 609.02; Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15)
§ 92.082 PROPER ENCLOSURE.
   Whenever an animal is required by law to be kept in a PROPER ENCLOSURE,
which term shall mean securely confined indoors or in a securely locked pen or
structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping, and to provide
protection for the animal from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the animal to exit on its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
barriers that prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall satisfy the requirements of a proper enclosure if it conforms to
each the following minimum specifications:
   (A)   Minimum total floor size: 32 square feet;
   (B)   Sidewalls: constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire, with openings not
to exceed 2 inches, support posts of 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe, which shall
be buried in the ground 18 inches or more, or anchored to a concrete floor, and
with a minimum height of 5 feet;
   (C)   Cover: constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls,
with openings not to exceed 2 inches, and shall cover the entire enclosure; and
   (D)   Entrance/exit gate: constructed of the same material as the sidewalls,
with openings not to exceed 2 inches, and shall contain a locking mechanism
capable of securely locking the enclosure when the animal is in the pen or
kennel, and which shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
(Ord. 424, passed 3-11-1997, § 609.03; Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.083 CONFISCATION.
   (A)   Seizure. The city shall immediately seize any dangerous dog if the
owner has not satisfied the registration and other requirements of M.S. §§
347.50 to 347.565, as amended, or any other requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Reclaimed.
      (1)   A dangerous dog seized under division (A) above may be reclaimed by
the owner of the dog upon payment of impounding and boarding fees, and
presenting proof to the appropriate animal control authority that the
requirements of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 and this chapter will be met.
      (2)   A dog not reclaimed under this division within 7 days may be
disposed of and the owner shall be liable to the city for costs incurred in
confining and disposing of the dog.
   (C)   Subsequent offenses; seizure.
      (1)   If a person has been convicted of a misdemeanor for violating a
provision of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 or this chapter, and the person is
charged with a subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog must be
seized by the city.
      (2)   If the owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was
seized, the court shall order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane
manner and the owner pay the cost of confining and destroying the animal.
      (3)   If the person is not convicted of the crime for which the dog was
seized, the owner may reclaim the dog upon payment to the city of a fee for the
care and boarding of the dog.
      (4)   If the dog is not reclaimed by the owner within 7 days after the
owner has been notified that the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed
of and the owner shall be liable to the city for the costs incurred in
confining, impounding and disposing of the dog.
(Ord. 424, passed 3-11-1997, § 609.04; Am. Ord. 577, passed 2-10-15) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 92.084 VIOLATION.
   The city may, at its discretion, impose an administrative penalty under §
10.90 for a violation of this chapter, rather than initiating a criminal
prosecution.
(Ord. 424, passed 3-11-1997, § 609.05; Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008; Am. Ord.
577, passed 2-10-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
PIGEONS
§ 92.095 CONTROL OF PIGEON POPULATION.
   (A)   A serious overpopulation of pigeons exists in the city and adversely
affects the health and welfare of the people and causes property damage.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Administrator is authorized to conduct controlled
pigeon shoots in accordance with this part and other provisions of the city
code and state and federal laws and regulations.
(1987 Code, § 603.01)
§ 92.096 PIGEON SHOOT.
   In organizing and conducting a pigeon shoot, the City Administrator shall be
guided by the following rules.
   (A)   No shooting shall take place on private property without the written
consent of the owner of the property.
   (B)   Only adult members of recognized sporting organizations who are
certified by organizations as being qualified gun handlers shall be permitted
to participate unless otherwise authorized by the City Administrator.
Authorized participants shall wear armbands issued by the city; the armbands
shall be returned to the Police Department on the same day issued. Each
participant shall be assigned a specific area and given instructions.
   (C)   Only shotguns and not larger than No. 72 birdshot shall be used,
except as otherwise authorized. Firearms using blank ammunition may be used to
flush the pigeons from non-shoot areas. All firing shall be directed away from
structures and at an elevation of no less than 45 degrees except as otherwise
specifically approved.
   (D)   Participants shall provide guns, shells and burlap sacks for
collecting fallen birds. Each participant shall police his or her area
immediately after a shoot, collecting and delivering birds to designated points
and removing spent shell casings. Trained dogs may be used for retrieving
during and after a shoot.
   (E)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal violation.
(1987 Code, § 603.02) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   A first time violation of §
92.074 shall be fined $50. Numerous violations of §
92.074 shall be deemed a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 584, passed 1-26-2016)
CHAPTER 93: STREET, PARK AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
   
93.01   Street excavations
   
93.02   Application and regulations
   
93.03   Bond and insurance required
   
93.04   General regulations for excavations
   
93.05   Use of public utility property or rights-of-way
   
93.06   Map of subsurface installations
   
93.07   Assessable current services; obligation of property owners and
occupants
   
93.08   Transmission of telecommunications or related services within public
rights-of-way
   
93.09   Authority to impose a franchise fee on utility franchises
§ 93.01 STREET EXCAVATIONS.
   No person, except an authorized city employee or a contractor performing
work under a contract with the city, shall make any excavation in a street,
alley, sidewalk or public ground without written permission from the City
Superintendent or City Engineer.
(1987 Code, § 305.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.02 APPLICATION AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Superintendent and City Engineer shall also prepare rules and
regulations with respect to excavations as necessary to protect the public from
injury, prevent damage to public or private property and minimize interference
with the public use of streets, alleys, sidewalks and public grounds.
   (B)   Any person making an excavation covered by this section shall comply
with the rules and regulations.
(1987 Code, § 305.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 BOND AND INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Bond.
      (1)   Perform excavation-related work in accordance with the applicable
code provisions;
      (2)   Indemnify the city and hold it harmless from all damage caused in
the execution of the work; and
      (3)   Pay all costs and damages suffered by the city because the
excavator failed to observe the applicable code provisions or because the work
was negligently executed.
   (B)   Liability insurance.
      (1)   Before beginning the construction work authorized by the permit, a
contractor, if involved, shall secure and maintain an insurance policy against
property damages or injury or death to persons.
      (2)   The policy shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and its
personnel against any claim, damages or cause of action arising out of the work
and from any expenses of defending the same.
      (3)   The property damage coverage shall be in the amount of at least
$50,000 and the public liability damage for injury or death to persons shall be
in the amount of at least $300,000 per claimant and $600,000 for any number of
claims per occurrence. There shall be $1,000,000 liability insurance required.
      (4)   Proof of the insurance shall be filed with the city prior to
construction work and the policy shall provide that the city be notified
immediately of any insurance modification or termination.
      (5)   If the insurance coverage is inadequate in amount, the contractor
shall indemnify and hold harmless the city and its personnel in like manner.
(1987 Code, § 305.03)
§ 93.04 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Street openings. Street openings shall be made in a manner that will
cause the least inconvenience to the public.
      (1)   Provision shall be made for water passage along the gutters; at
least 1/2 of the traveled portion of the street shall be left open and in good
condition for the safe passage of vehicles.
      (2)   Open excavations shall be guarded with substantial barriers, marked
with red flags and marked with red lights or flashing devices at night.
      (3)   Pipes or mains exposed to freezing temperatures shall be protected
to prevent freezing. Any person responsible for exposing a city main or pipe so
that it might be damaged by freezing shall be liable to the city for all
damages caused by the freezing and all damages sustained by others by the
freezing for which the city may be liable.
   (B)   Refilling excavations. Every street excavation shall be refilled as
soon as possible after the work is completed and paving, sidewalks and
appurtenances shall be replaced in at least as good condition as before the
excavation to the Public Works Superintendent's satisfaction. All debris shall
be removed immediately.
   (C)   Compliance. Any person who fails to comply with these requirements
within 24 hours after notice from the city shall be liable to the city for the
full cost incurred by the city to correct the defect and restore the street,
sidewalk, alley or public ground to its proper condition. The cost shall be an
obligation of the surety on the permitted's bond.
(1987 Code, § 305.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.05 USE OF PUBLIC UTILITY PROPERTY OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person or corporation shall erect or set any telephone,
telegraph, electric light or power pole or pole of any sort for the support of
wires in any public street, road or alley, or in any public ground in the city
unless authorized to do so by the City Superintendent or City Engineer.
      (2)   Nor shall any person or corporation, unless authorized, string,
place or fasten upon any pole, tree, building or otherwise, any telephone,
telegraph, electric light or power wire in or upon any public street, road,
alley or public ground, or place or fasten any cross-arm, bracket or other wire
support in or upon the same.
   (B)   Penalty. Any person who shall violate or aid in the violation of any
of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 305.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.06 MAP OF SUBSURFACE INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   The City Engineer or other appropriate official shall maintain a map
showing the location of city utilities and other installations made beneath the
surface of any public street, grounds or right-of-way.
   (B)   The information on the map shall be as accurate as possible to permit
anyone excavating a public place having an underground installation to avoid
damage to the existing underground installations, Gopher State One Call laws
will apply for locates or any installation.
(1987 Code, § 305.06)
§ 93.07 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES; OBLIGATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND
OCCUPANTS.
   (A)   Current service defined. The term CURRENT SERVICE as used in this
section means 1 or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish removal from
sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks or
from private property; public health or safety hazard removal or elimination
from private property, excluding any hazardous building as defined in M.S. §
463.15, as it may be amended from time to time, or hazardous excavation as
defined in M.S. § 463.25, as it may be amended from time to time; installation
or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street flushing, light
street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of sidewalks and
alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and insect-infected
trees from the public streets or private property; and the operation of a
street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   The owner and the occupant of any property adjacent to a public
sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk safe for pedestrians.
      (2)   No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to
remain on the walk longer than 12 hours after its deposit thereon.
      (3)   A street maintenance employee or other designated official shall
remove from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as
possible beginning 12 hours after any matter has been deposited thereon or
after the snow has ceased to fall.
      (4)   The official shall keep a record of the removal cost for each
separate lot and parcel and shall deliver the information to the City
Administrator.
   (C)   Weed elimination.
      (1)   Weeds as a nuisance. Any weeds, whether noxious as defined by law
or not, growing upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of
any street or alley in the city to a height greater than 18 inches or which
have gone or are about to go to seed are a nuisance on the property and on land
outside the traveled portion of the street or alley abutting on the property.
      (2)   Notice. On or before June 1 of each year and at other times as
ordered by Council resolution, the City Administrator shall publish once in the
official newspaper a notice directing owners and occupants of property within
the city to destroy all weeds declared by division (C)(1) above to be a
nuisance and state that:
         (a)   If the weeds are not destroyed in 10 days of notice publication,
the weeds will be destroyed by the Weed Inspector;
         (b)   The owner will be charged for this destruction; and
         (c)   If the charge is not paid, a special assessment shall be made
against the property concerned.
      (3)   Removal by city. If the owner or occupant of any property in the
city fails to comply with the notice within 10 days after its publication, the
Weed Inspector shall cut and remove the weeds. The Inspector shall keep a
record showing the cost of the work attributable to each separate lot and
parcel and shall deliver the information to the City Administrator.
   (D)   Public health and safety hazards.
      (1)   When the city removes or eliminates public health or safety hazards
from private property under the city code, the administrative officer
responsible for doing the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal
or elimination for each parcel of property affected and annually deliver the
information to the City Administrator.
      (2)   This section does not apply to hazardous buildings as defined by
M.S. § 463.15, as it may be amended from time to time, or hazardous excavations
as defined by M.S. § 463.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians.
Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard specifications approved
by the City Superintendent or City Administrator.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The street maintenance employee or other
designated official shall make inspections as are necessary to determine that
public sidewalks and alleys within the city are kept in repair and safe for
pedestrians or vehicles. If the employee finds that any sidewalk-abutting on
private property is unsafe and in need of repairs, the employee shall serve
notice, by registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the
property's record owner or upon the property's occupant, if the owner does not
reside within the city or cannot be found therein. The notice shall order the
owner to have the sidewalk repaired and made safe within 60 days and state
that:
         (a)   If the owner fails to do so, the street maintenance employee or
other designated official will do so on behalf of the city;
         (b)   The owner will be charged for the repair; and
         (c)   If the charge is not paid, a special assessment will be made
against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city.
         (a)   If the sidewalk is not repaired within 60 days after receipt of
the notice, the street maintenance employee or other designated official shall
report this fact to the Council.
         (b)   The Council shall order by resolution the street maintenance
employee or other designated official to repair the sidewalk and make it safe
or order the work done by contract in accordance with law.
         (c)   The street maintenance employee or other designated official
shall keep a record of the total repair costs attributable to each lot or
parcel of property and report the information to the City Administrator.
   (F)   Personal liability.
      (1)   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a current
service has been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of the
service, that service to be a minimum of $25.
      (2)   As soon as the service has been completed and the cost determined,
the Deputy Clerk or other designated official shall prepare a bill, mail it to
the owner and the amount shall be due immediately and payable at the Deputy
Clerk’s office.
   (G)   Assessment.
      (1)   On or before September 1 of each year, the Clerk Administrator
shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service against
each separate lot or parcel under this chapter.
      (2)   Upon written notice the Council may then spread the charges against
property benefitted as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, for certification to the County Auditor and
collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding 10 years, as the Council may determine in each
case.
      (3)   Failure to give notice shall not effect the above assessment if the
owner has actual notice of the amount due.
(1987 Code, § 305.07)
§ 93.08 TRANSMISSION OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS OR RELATED SERVICES WITHIN PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COMPANY. A natural or corporate person, business association, political
subdivision, public or private agency of any kind, its successors and assigns,
who or which seeks or is required to construct, install, operate, repair,
maintain, remove or relocate facilities in the city.
      FACILITIES. Telecommunications equipment of any kind, including but not
limited to audio, video, paging, facsimile or similar service, not governed by
M.S. Chapter 238, as it may be amended from time to time, including all trunks,
lines, circuits, physical connections, switching equipment, wireless
communication equipment of all kinds and any necessary appurtenances owned,
leased or operated by a company on, over, in, under, across or along public
ground.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Highways, roads, streets, alleys, public ways,
utility easements and public grounds in the city.
      SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works or designated
representative.
   (B)   Permit required. A company may not construct, install, repair, remove
or relocate facilities, or any part thereof, in, on, over, under or along
public ground without first obtaining permission from the city.
   (C)   Permission requested. Permission is made to the Superintendent.
   (D)   Issuance of permission.
      (1)   If the Superintendent determines that the applicant has satisfied
the requirements of this chapter, the Supervisor may issue permission to the
company.
      (2)   An applicant may contest denial of permission or the conditions of
approval by written notice to the City Administrator requesting a City Council
review within 14 days of the Superintendent’s action.
      (3)   The Council shall hear any contest of the Superintendent’s actions
under this chapter within 45 days of the City Administrators receipt of the
contest notice.
      (4)   Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from requiring a
franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to the
issuance of a permit set forth herein.
   (E)   Inspection of work. When the work is completed, the company must
request an inspection by the Superintendent or City Engineer.
   (F)   Restoration.
      (1)   Upon completion of the work, the company must restore the general
area of the work, including paving and its foundations, to the same condition
that existed prior to commencement of the work and must exercise reasonable
care to maintain the same condition for 2 years thereafter.
      (2)   The work must be completed as promptly as weather permits. If the
company does not promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt,
rubbish, equipment and material, and restore the public ground to the same
condition, the city may put it in the same condition at the expense of the
company.
      (3)   The company must, upon demand, pay to the city the direct and
indirect cost of the work done for or performed by the city, including but not
limited to the city's administrative costs.
      (4)   This remedy is in addition to any other remedies available to the
city.
   (G)   Company initiated relocation. The company must give the city written
notice prior to a company initiated relocation of facilities. A company
initiated relocation must be at the company's expense and must be approved by
the city, the approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
   (H)   City required relocation. The company must promptly and at its own
expense, with due regard for seasonal working conditions, permanently relocate
its facilities whenever the city requires a relocation.
   (I)   Relocation where public ground vacated.
      (1)   The vacation of public ground does not deprive the company of the
right to operate and maintain its facilities in the city.
      (2)   If the vacation proceedings are initiated by the company, the
company must pay the relocation costs.
      (3)   If the vacation proceedings are initiated by the city or other
persons, the company must pay the relocation costs unless otherwise agreed to
by the city, company or other persons.
   (J)   Notice.
      (1)   If the company is in default in the performance of the work
authorized, including but not limited to restoration requirements, for more
than 30 days after receiving written notice from the city of the default, the
city may terminate the rights of the company under the permit.
      (2)   The notice of default must be in writing and specify the provisions
of the permit under which the default is claimed and state the grounds of the
claim. The notice must be served on the company by personally delivering it to
an officer thereof at its principal place of business in Minnesota or by
certified mail to that address.
   (K)   City action on default.
      (1)   If the company is in default in the performance of the work
authorized by the permit, the city may, after the above notice to the company
and failure of the company to cure the default, take action as may be
reasonably necessary to abate the condition caused by the default.
      (2)   The company must reimburse the city for the city's reasonable
costs, including costs of collection and attorney fees incurred as a result of
the company default. The security posted under division (F) above will be
applied by the city first toward payment for reimbursement.
   (L)   Indemnification.
      (1)   The company will indemnify, keep and hold the city, its elected
officials, officers, employees and agents free and harmless from any and all
claims and actions on account of injury or death of persons or damage to
property occasioned by the construction, installation, maintenance, repair,
removal, relocation or operation of the facilities affecting public ground,
unless injury or damage is the result of the negligence of the city, its
elected officials, employees, officers or agents.
      (2)   The city will notify the company of claims or actions and provide a
reasonable opportunity for the company to accept and undertake the defense.
   (M)   Claim defense.
      (1)   If a claim or action is brought against the city under
circumstances where indemnification applies, the company, at its sole expense,
shall defend the city if written notice of the claim or action is given to the
company within a period wherein the company is not prejudiced in the defense of
a claim or action by lack of notice.
      (2)   If the company undertakes the defense, the company shall have
complete control of the claim or action, but it may not settle without the
consent of the city, which shall not be unreasonably withheld.
      (3)   This section is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any defense
or immunity otherwise available to the city. In defending any action on behalf
of the city, the company is entitled to assert every defense or immunity that
the city could assert in its own behalf
   (N)   Use of public ground.
      (1)   Facilities must be located, constructed, installed, maintained or
relocated so as not to endanger or unnecessarily interfere with the usual and
customary traffic, travel and use of public ground.
      (2)   The facilities are subject to additional conditions of the permit
as established by the superintendent including but not limited to:
         (a)   The right of inspection by the city at reasonable times and
places;
         (b)   The obligation to relocate the facilities pursuant to divisions
(G) and (H) above; and
         (c)   Compliance with all applicable obligations imposed by the
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission and other state and the federal law,
including prompt compliance with the requirements of the Gopher State One Call
program, M.S. Chapter 216D, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (O)   Location.
      (1)   The facilities must be placed in a location agreed to by the city.
The company shall give the City Superintendent or City Engineer a 2-week
written notice of the company's proposed location of facilities within the
public ground.
      (2)   No later than 2 weeks after the city's receipt of the company's
written or verbal notice the city will notify the company in writing of the
city's acceptance or rejection of the proposed location. If the city rejects
the company's proposed location, the city shall propose alternative locations.
      (3)   The city does not waive or forfeit its right to reject the location
of facilities by failure to respond within the 2 weeks.
   (P)   Emergency work.
      (1)   A company may open and disturb the surface of public ground without
permission where an emergency exists requiring the immediate repair of its
facilities.
      (2)   In that event the company must request a repair not later than the
second working day thereafter and comply with the applicable conditions of the
permit.
      (3)   In no event, may the company undertake an activity which will
result in the closing of a street or alley without prior notification to the
city.
(1987 Code, § 305.09)
§ 93.09 AUTHORITY TO IMPOSE A FRANCHISE FEE ON UTILITY FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FRANCHISE. Authorization given by the city to a person to operate a
utility within the City of St. Charles.
      PUBLIC WAYS. Streets, avenues, alleys, parkways, walkways and other
public rights-of-way within the city.
      UTILITIES. An electric distribution system, a gas distribution system, a
sanitary sewer collection system, a water distribution system, a storm sewer
collection system, a cable communication system and a waste collection system.
   (B)   Franchise required. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
operate or maintain a utility in the City of St. Charles unless the utility is
owned and operated by the city or the person has first obtained and currently
holds a valid franchise agreement established with the city.
   (C)   Administration and use of public right-of-way. The city may impose a
franchise fee for the administration of the franchise agreement and for the
franchisee's use of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Franchise fee.
      (1)   The franchisee shall pay to the city an amount equal to 3% of its
annual gross revenues.
      (2)   Payments due the city under this provision shall be payable
quarterly. The payment shall be made within 90 days of the end of each of the
franchisee's fiscal quarters together with a brief report showing the basis for
the computation.
      (3)   All amounts paid shall be subject to audit and recomputation by the
city.
      (4)   The city reserves the right to charge the franchisee a monthly
franchise fee, which shall not exceed 5% of its annual gross revenues. The city
may impose this franchise fee by providing written notice thereof to the
franchisee at least 90 days before commencement of the fee.
(1987 Code, § 305.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Noises prohibited
   
94.02   Hourly restriction on certain operations
   
94.03   Enforcement
§ 94.01 NOISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures
or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of any
person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
the following divisions.
   (B)   Horns, audible signaling devices and the like. No person shall sound
any audible signaling device on any vehicle except as a warning of danger, as
required by M.S. § 169.68, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge
of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine,
motor boat, motor vehicle or snowmobile except through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (D)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise.
   (E)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading or unpacking any vehicle.
   (F)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like.
      (1)   No person shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of
any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine
or other device for the production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and
loudly audible manner as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of any person nearby.
      (2)   Operation of any like set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other
device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be
plainly audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it
is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet
if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
   (G)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings.
      (1)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of
people giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet or repose
of another person.
      (2)   When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating a
like noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disperse immediately.
      (3)   No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (H)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising and the like. No person shall
operate or permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker, sound amplifier or
other device for the production or reproduction of sound on a street or other
public place for the purpose of commercial advertising or attracting the
attention of the public to any commercial establishment or vehicle.
   (I)   Animals.
      (1)   No person shall keep any animal that unreasonably disturbs the
comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued
noise.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, DISTURBS THE COMFORT OR REPOSE OF
PERSONS IN THE VICINITY BY ITS FREQUENT OR CONTINUED NOISE means any 1 of the
following:
         (a)   The animal noise occurs at a time between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. and can be heard from a location outside the building and premises where
the animal is being kept, and the animal has made these noises intermittently
for more than 3 minutes with 1 minute or less lapse of time between each animal
noise during the 3-minute period;
         (b)   The animal noise can be heard from a 1-block distance where the
animal is being kept, and the animal has made these noises intermittently for
more than 3 minutes with 1 minute or less lapse of time between each animal
noise during the 3-minute period; or
         (c)   The animal noise can be heard from a location outside the
building and premises where the animal is being kept, and the animal has made
these noises intermittently for a period of at least 5 minutes with 1 minute or
less lapse of time between each animal noise during the 5-minute period.
   (J)   Schools, churches, nursing home, medical center and the like. No
person shall create any excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds
adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, nursing home or
medical center when the noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the
institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when
conspicuous signs indicate the presence of the institution.
(Ord. 443, passed 12-14-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 HOURLY RESTRICTION ON CERTAIN OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles. No person shall, between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., drive or operate any minibike, snowmobile or other
recreational vehicle not licensed for travel on public highways.
   (B)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn mower,
power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or other
similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
   (C)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse in
any residential district except between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
on any weekday, weekend or holiday.
   (D)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday, or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
(Ord. 443, passed 12-14-1999; Am. Ord. 553, passed 6-12-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement duties. The Police Department shall enforce the provisions
of this chapter.
   (B)   Civil remedies. This chapter may be enforced by injunction, action for
abatement or other appropriate civil remedy.
   (C)   Noise impact statements.
      (1)   The City Council may require any person applying for a change in
zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure, operation,
process, installation or alteration, or project that may be considered a
potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form prescribed
by the Council.
      (2)   It shall evaluate each statement and take its evaluation into
account in approving or disapproving the license permit applied for or the
zoning change requested.
   (D)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
(Ord. 443, passed 12-14-1999; Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008 )
CHAPTER 95: CITY PARKS
Section
   
95.01   Hours of operation for city parks
§ 95.01 HOURS OF OPERATION FOR CITY PARKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the phrase CITY PARK or
PARK means the following parks, which include all publicly owned parking lots
adjacent thereto, previously established in the City of St. Charles:
      (1)   Brookwood Park;
      (2)   City Park;
      (3)   Jessens Park;
      (4)   Kieffer Park;
      (5)   Meadow View Park;
      (6)   Oakview Park;
      (7)   Whispering Hills Park;
      (8)   The portion of Sportsman's Park within city limits; and
      (9)   City Hall Park.
   (B)   Operating hours. All city parks as defined herein shall be closed
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. the following day. The City
Public Works Director shall erect at the entrance to city parks listed herein a
sign that clearly states the operating hours of the park and that presence in
the park outside of operating hours is a misdemeanor offense. It is a
misdemeanor offense for a person to remain in a motor vehicle that is located
within a city park or for the owner of a motor vehicle to leave their vehicle
parked unattended in any publicly owned parking lot adjacent to a city park
outside of operating hours.
   (C)   Exceptions. Exceptions to the hours of operation listed in this
section are as follows:
      (1)   Advanced written or verbal permission from the Public Works
Director or City Administrator to remain in a park after operating hours; or
      (2)   Any event planned and hosted by any city official acting in
official capacity; or
      (3)   Authorized city or partner agency vehicles.
   (D)   Penalty. Any person found in the parks after closing hours shall be in
violation of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any person with a
Minnesota Peace Officer's License with jurisdiction in the City of St. Charles.
(Ord. 619, passed 4-14-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSES AND PERMITS
      
111.   TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
112.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
113.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
114.   PUBLIC DANCES
      
115.   CANNABIS AND HEMP RETAIL BUSINESSES AND TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
110.01   General
   
110.02   Inspection of licensed premises
   
110.03   Duties of licensee
   
110.04   Suspension or revocation
§ 110.01 GENERAL.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city shall be governed by this chapter.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a valid license or permit for the activity or use.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Every license application shall be made to the City Administrator
on a form provided for it. The application shall be accompanied by the
prescribed fee.
      (2)   If, after investigation, the City Administrator is satisfied that
all requirements of law and this code have been met, the City Administrator
shall present the application to the Council for action or, if the license or
permit does not require Council approval, the City Administrator shall issue
the license or permit.
   (D)   Bond.
      (1)   If a bond is required for a license or permit, the bond shall be a
corporate surety bond executed on a form approved by the City Attorney and
shall be filed with the City Administrator before the license or permit is
issued.
      (2)   The bond shall be conditioned on the following:
         (a)   The license or permit is in compliance with the code provisions
and laws pertaining to the licensed or permitted activity; and
         (b)   The license or permit holder indemnifies the city and holds it
harmless from all loss or damage by reason of inadequate work performed by the
license or permit holder or by reason of accident caused by the license or
permit holder's negligence, agents or employees.
   (E)   Insurance.
      (1)   When a license or permit holder is required to have in force an
insurance policy, the policy's substance and form shall be approved by the City
Attorney. The policy shall not permit cancellation without 15-days’ prior
notice to the city, and the coverage shall be for the term of the license or
permit.
      (2)   Satisfactory evidence of insurance coverage shall be filed with the
City Administrator before the license or permit is issued. Each license or
permit shall terminate upon termination of the required insurance coverage.
   (F)   Prorated fees. License fees shall not be prorated unless otherwise
specified by this code or by
law.
   (G)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part unless
otherwise specified by this code or by law.
   (H)   Duration of license. Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be
valid for a calendar year, expire on December 31 or shall be valid for the part
of the year for which it is issued, whichever is less.
   (I)   Transfers. No license issued under this code may be transferred to any
other person. If a license relates to specific premises, the license shall not
be changed to another location without approval of the Council or other
licensing authority.
(1987 Code, § 401.01)
§ 110.02 INSPECTION OF LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   Authorized personnel.
      (1)   Any city official or employee having a duty to perform with
reference to a license under this code and any police officer may inspect and
examine any licensee, the licensee's business or premises to enforce compliance
with applicable provisions of this code.
      (2)   Subject to the provisions of this section, the official or employee
may, at any reasonable time, enter licensed premises or premises for which a
license is required in order to enforce compliance with this code.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the licensee objects to the inspection of the
premises, the city official or employee charged with the duty of enforcing this
code shall procure a valid search warrant before conducting the inspection.
(1987 Code, § 401.02)
§ 110.03 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Inspection. License and permit holders shall permit at reasonable
times inspections of the holder's business and examination of the holder's
books and records by authorized officers or employees.
   (B)   Compliance with law. License and permit holders shall comply with
laws, ordinances and regulations, applicable to the licensed or permit-related
business, activity or property.
   (C)   Display of license. License and permit holders shall display the
license or other insignia given as evidence of the license in a conspicuous
place on the premises, vehicle or device to which the license relates. If the
license cannot be posted in a like manner, the license shall be carried on the
license holder's person when the license holder is participating in the
licensed activity.
   (D)   Unlawful disposition. The license holder shall not lend or give to any
other person the license or license insignia.
(1987 Code, § 401.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke
any license or permit for violation of any law, ordinance or regulation,
applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property.
   (B)   Except where mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice
and hearing, and except where suspension may be made without a hearing, the
licensee or permit holder shall be given at least 10-days’ notice of a hearing
regarding revocation or suspension. The notice shall state the time and place
of the hearing and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(1987 Code, § 401.04)
CHAPTER 111: TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   License
   
111.04   Fees
   
111.05   Basis for denial license
   
111.06   Prohibited sales
   
111.07   Vending machines
   
111.08   Self-service sales of individually packaged tobacco
   
111.09   Responsibility
   
111.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
111.11   Other illegal acts
   
111.12   Exceptions and defenses
   
111.98   Violations
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies, which the city hereby accepts
and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before they have reached
the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age of 18 years
without having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin smoking;
and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices for the purpose of
enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the serious
effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and to further the official public policy of the State
of Minnesota in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as
stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 428, passed - -)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. 
      (1)   The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that those
authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices are
following and complying with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by
this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt
to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by state and federal
laws.
      (3)   COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of
government for the purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local
laws and regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related
devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include single cigarette packs, single bags or cans of loose
tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging of snuff or chewing
tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a single pack or other
container as described in this section shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY
PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not limited to, grocery stores, convenience
stores and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING.
      (1)   Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related
devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco related devices, without assistance or intervention
of the licensee or the licensee's employee.
      (2)   The assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device between the
customer and the licensee or employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not
include vending machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to: cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine cut
or other chewing tobacco; cheroots, stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish,
shorts, plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos, refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in manner so as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco products as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device.
(Ord. 428, passed - -)
§ 111.03 LICENSE.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the city. The
application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant's
residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name of the
business for which the license is sought and any additional information the
city deems necessary.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Administrator
shall forward the application to the Council for action at its next regularly
scheduled Council meeting. If the Administrator shall determine that an
application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (B)   Action.
      (1)   The Council may either approve or deny the license, or it may delay
action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary.
      (2)   If the Council shall approve the license, the Administrator shall
issue the license to the applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice
of the denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the
applicant's right to appeal the Council's decision.
   (C)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for 1
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the §§
111.12 and
111.98 below.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (H)   Renewals.
      (1)   The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be handled
in the same manner as the original application.
      (2)   The request for a renewal shall be made at least 30 days but not
more than 90 days before the expiration of the current license
      (3)   The issuance of a license issued under this chapter shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
$50.
(Ord. 428, passed - -)
§ 111.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco related
devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information; or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding a license.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service sale of individually packaged tobacco or
tobacco products whereby the customer does not need to make a verbal or written
request to an employee of the licensed premise in order to receive the
individually packaged tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the individually packaged tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco related device between the licensee or the
licensee's employee and the customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
111.02 above;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; or
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES OF INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED TOBACCO.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a license under this chapter to allow the
sale of individually packaged tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related
devices by any means where by the customer may have access to the items without
having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the individually packaged tobacco,
tobacco product or the tobacco products, and tobacco related device between the
licensee or his or her clerk and the customer.
   (B)   All individually packaged tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco
related devices shall either be stored behind a counter or other area not
freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage unit not left
open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling individually
packaged tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices at the time this
chapter is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions
of their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of a like item
by an employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the city
from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this
chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police
or other authorized city official during regular business hours.
   (B)   From time to time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct
compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their parents or
guardians, minors over the age of 15 years but less than 18 years, to enter the
licensed premises to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices.
   (C)   Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised
by city designated law enforcement officers or other designated city personnel.
   (D)   Minors used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful
possession of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices when those
items are obtained as a part of the compliance check.
   (E)   No minor used in compliance checks shall attempt to use a false
identification misrepresenting the minor's age, and all minors lawfully engaged
in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the minor's age asked by
the licensee or his or her employee and shall produce any identification, if
any exists, for which he or she is asked.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco related
device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco
related devices. This division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco
related device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to purchase
or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to purchase or otherwise obtain those items on behalf of a minor.
      (2)   It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt
to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco produce or tobacco related device.
      (3)   This division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false information. It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false form
of identification whether the identification is that of another person or one
of which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to represent
an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be a affirmative defense to
the violation of this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof
of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 428, passed - -)
§ 111.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings.
      (1)   If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
      (2)   Published notice will not be required for any hearing involving a
minor.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The City Administrator shall designate the hearing
officer.
   (D)   Decision.
      (1)   If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this chapter
did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officers reasons for finding a
violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
10.99, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
accused violator.
      (2)   Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred
or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, the findings shall be recorded
and a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the District Court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 428, passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
112.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
112.04   License ineligibility
   
112.05   License suspension and revocation
   
112.06   License transferability
   
112.07   Registration
   
112.08   Prohibited activities
   
112.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.
      (1)   A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting.
      (2)   The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR.
      (1)   A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street or any other type of place-to-place, for the purpose
of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
      (2)   The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from
the scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is
to obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean
the same as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any 1 location for more than 14
consecutive days.
§ 112.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person selling
or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or
other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by the
wholesaler.
      (2)   The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, as
shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or any
officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
112.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 112.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
112.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the Deputy Clerk. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the 3 most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Procedure.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of the
license fee, the Deputy Clerk, within 2 regular business days, must determine
if the application is complete.
      (2)   An application is determined to be complete only if all required
information is provided. If the Deputy Clerk determines that the application is
incomplete, the Deputy Clerk must inform the applicant of the required
necessary information that is missing.
      (3)   If the application is complete, the Deputy Clerk must order any
investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the information
provided with the application.
      (4)   Within 10 regular business days of receiving a complete application
the Deputy Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds for denying
the license under §
112.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license.
      (5)   If the Deputy Clerk denies the license, the applicant must be
notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial and of the
applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council.
      (6)   The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date
of the request. The decision of the City Council following the public hearing
can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of
certiorari.
   (E)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for 1 calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (F)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   (1)   The conviction of the applicant within the past 5 years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner.
      (2)   Those violations shall include but not be limited to burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past 5 years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and/or
   (E)   (1)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation.
      (2)   Evidence of a bad business reputation shall include, but not be
limited to, the existence of more than 3 complaints against the applicant with
the Better Business Bureau, the Attorney General's Office or other similar
business or consumer rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months,
or 3 complaints filed against the applicant within the preceding 5 years.
§ 112.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
112.04; or
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under 1 license. The suspension or revocation of any
license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation.
      (2)   Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the permanent
residential address listed on the license application, or if no residential
address is listed, to the business address provided on the license application.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) above, the
licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing.
      (2)   If no request for a hearing is received by the Deputy Clerk within
10 regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may
proceed with the suspension or revocation.
      (3)   For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
      (4)   If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a
hearing shall be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request.
      (5)   Within 3 regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
112.03, shall be required to register with the city.
   (B)   Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to
register.
   (C)   The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
   (D)   Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required.
   (E)   Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the Deputy Clerk
shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as proof of the
registration. Certificates of registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so
by the property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the
purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
when the property is marked with a sign or placard at least 4 inches long and 4
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove, deface
or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Regulations
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Licenses required
   
113.03   Applications and license requirements
   
113.04   Granting of licenses
   
113.05   Number of licenses issued
   
113.06   Limitation on licenses issued
   
113.07   Hours
   
113.08   Term and expiration of licenses
   
113.09   State law adopted
Specific Regulations
   
113.20   Persons under twenty-one; illegal acts
   
113.21   Employment of minors
   
113.22   License restrictions; general
   
113.23   Drinking in public
   
113.24   License penalties, revocation or suspension
   
113.25   Intoxicated persons
   
113.26   Intoxicating liquor prohibited on 3.2% malt liquor license premises
   
113.27   Deliveries
   
113.28   Possession and consumption prohibited in certain areas
   
113.29   Additional general conditions of license
   
113.30   Suspension or revocation, no insurance
   
113.31   Exception for golf course; sale on Sundays
   
113.32   Guidelines; penalties
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than ½ of 1% alcohol by
volume.
   BONA FIDE GUEST. An individual who is invited by a club member and present
with such club member on the premises of the club, provided that the inviting
member is not an on-duty employee of the club, or an individual who is
attending a social function sponsored by a person other than the club, who is
an invited guest of the sponsor of the social function, who shall also
therefore be considered a guest of the chief officer of the club.
   BREWER. A person who manufactures malt liquor for sale.
   BREW PUB. A brewer who also holds one or more retail on-sale license(s) and
who manufactures fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year, at any one
licensed premises, the entire production of which is solely for consumption on
tap on any licensed premises owned by the brewer, or for off-sale from those
licensed premises as permitted in M.S. § 340A.24, subd. 2.
   BREWER TAPROOM (also known as a MICROBREWERY). A facility on the premises of
or adjacent to the premises owned by a brewer, licensed under M.S. § 340A.301,
intended for the on-sale consumption and limited off-sale of beer produced on
site by the brewer as authorized by M.S. § 340A.26.
   CATERER'S PERMIT. A permit issued by the Commissioner of public safety to a
restaurant that holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license issued by the
city. The holder of a caterer's permit may sell intoxicating liquor as an
incidental part of a food service that serves prepared meals at a place other
than the premises for which the holder's on-sale intoxicating liquor license is
issued.
   CLUB. An incorporated organization organized under the laws of the state for
civic, fraternal, social or business purposes, for intellectual improvement, or
for the promotion of sports or a congressionally chartered veterans
organization, which:
      (1)   Has more than 30 members;
      (2)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more than
1 year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its members; and
      (3)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive committee or other
similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose. No
member, officer, agent or employee shall receive any profit from the
distribution or sale of beverage to the members of the club, or their guests,
beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the governing
body.
   COCKTAIL ROOM. A facility on or adjacent to the premises of a
microdistillery licensed under M.S. § 340A.22, which has been issued a cocktail
room license for the on-sale of distilled liquor produced by the distiller for
consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one distillery location owned by
the distiller.
   COMMISSIONER OF PUBLIC SAFETY. The Commissioner of the Minnesota Department
of Public Safety.
   DISTILLED SPIRITS. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, and other distilled spirits, including all dilutions
and mixtures thereof, for nonindustrial use.
   GROWLER. Malt-liquor sold off-sale by a small brewer or brew pub, which has
been produced and packaged by the brewer in 64-ounce containers commonly known
as growlers or in 750 milliliter bottles.
   HOTEL. An establishment where food and lodging are regularly furnished to
quests and which has:
      (1)   A dining room serving the general public at tables and having
facilities for seating at least 30 guests at 1 time; and
      (2)   A minimum of 10 guest rooms.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR.  Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous,
vinous and malt beverages containing more than 3.2% of alcohol by weight.
   MALT LIQUOR. Any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than ½ of 1% alcohol by volume. Malt liquor containing
not less than ½ of 1% alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2% alcohol by weight
shall be defined as 3.2% MALT LIQUOR.
   MICRODISTILLERY. A distillery operated within the state producing premium,
distilled spirits in total quantity not to exceed 40,000 proof gallons in a
calendar year and licensed under M.S. § 340A.22.
   NONINTOXICATING WINE. Wine containing not less than ½ of 1% alcohol by
volume.
   OFF-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages in original packages for
consumption off the licensed premises only.
   ON-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the licensed
premises only.
   PACKAGE. A sealed or corked container of alcoholic beverages.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are served regularly on the premises
and served at tables to the general public and having a minimum seating
capacity for not fewer than 30 guests at 1 time. To be a restaurant as defined
by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state as
required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet the
definition of either a SMALL ESTABLISHMENT, MEDIUM ESTABLISHMENT or LARGE
ESTABLISHMENT as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be amended
from time to time.
   SALE. All barter and all manner of furnishing intoxicating liquor; includes
dispensing intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor at a public gathering for
which an admission fee has been charged, whether or not a fee is charged for
the beverage dispensed.
   SMALL BREWER. A brewer licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i), or
(j) who also holds a retail license to sell off-sale malt liquor at its
licensed premises which has been produced and packaged by the brewer.
   THEATER. A building containing an auditorium in which live dramatic,
musical, dance, or literary performances are regularly presented to holders of
tickets for those performances. Movie theaters do not qualify as a THEATER
under this definition. Alcohol may be served only during the hours in which the
performance takes place and 1 hour before curtain. Only performance ticket
holders may purchase alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
   3.2% MALT LIQUOR. Malt liquor containing not less than ½ of 1% alcohol by
volume nor more than 3.2% alcohol by weight.
   WHOLESALER. A person who sells alcoholic beverages to persons to whom sale
is permitted under M.S. § 340A.310, as it may be amended from time to time,
from a stock maintained in a warehouse in the state.
   WINE. The product made from the normal alcoholic fermentation of grapes,
including still wine, sparkling and carbonated wine, wine made from condensed
grape must, wine made from other agricultural products than sound, ripe grapes,
imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, sherry and sake, in
each instance containing not less than ½ of 1% nor more than 24% alcohol by
volume for nonindustrial use. Wine does not include distilled spirits.
(1987 Code, § 406.01) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.02 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. No person shall directly or indirectly, upon any
pretense or by any device, manufacture, import, sell, exchange, barter, charge
for possession, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of alcoholic beverages as
part of a commercial transaction at any time or place within the city without
first having obtained a license to do so. This provision shall not apply to
wholesalers possessing a valid license issued by the Commissioner.
   (B)   License types:
      (1)   3.2% liquor licenses.  Licenses for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor
may be of 3 kinds: on-sale, off-sale, and temporary on-sale and may be issued
to the following:
         (a)   On-sale licenses may be issued only to drugstores, clubs,
restaurants, hotels, and bowling centers, and shall permit the sale of 3.2%
malt liquor for consumption on the licensed premises.
         (b)   Off-sale licenses may be issued only to exclusive liquor stores
or drugstores to permit the sale of 3.2% malt liquor in original packages for
consumption off the premises.
         (c)   Temporary on-sale licenses may be issued for a period of time
not to exceed 5 days to clubs, or charitable, religious and other nonprofit
organizations for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor for consumption on the premises
or area specifically described in the license.
      (2)    Intoxicating liquor licenses. Licenses for the sale of
intoxicating liquor may be of 5 kinds: on-sale, on-sale club, Sunday on-sale,
on-sale wine and temporary on-sale and may be issued to the following:
         (a)   On-sale licenses may be issued only to hotels; restaurants;
bowling centers; clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations
provided that the club or organization has been in existence for at least 3
years and liquor sales will only be to members and bona fide guests; or
exclusive liquor stores.
         (b)   On-sale intoxicating liquor, on-sale wine, or on-sale malt
liquor licenses may be issued to a theater as provided by M.S. § 340A.404,
subd. 1(b).
         (c)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued to
a club or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organization in existence
for at least 3 years in connection with a social event within the city
sponsored by the licensee. The temporary license may authorize the on-sale of
intoxicating liquor for not more than 4 consecutive days, and may authorize on-
sales on premises other than premises the licensee owns or permanently
occupies. The temporary license may provide that the licensee may contract for
intoxicating liquor catering services with the holder of a full-year on-sale
intoxicating liquor license issued by any municipality. Temporary licenses for
the on-sale of intoxicating liquor are subject to the following additional
restrictions:
            1.   The city may issue to a brewer who manufactures fewer than
3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year or a microdistillery a temporary license
for the on-sale of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within
the city sponsored by the brewer or microdistillery. The terms and conditions
specified herein for temporary licenses shall apply to the license issued,
except that the requirements of M.S. § 340A.409, subds. 1 to 3(a), shall apply
to the license.
            2.   The city may not issue more than 3 4-day, 4 3-day, 6 2-day, or
12 1-day temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, in any combination not
to exceed 12 days per year, to any 1 organization or registered political
committee or for any 1 location within a 12-month period. The city may not
issue more than 1 such temporary license to any 1 organization or registered
political committee or for any 1 location within any 30-day period unless the
licenses are issued in connection with an event officially designated a
"community festival" by the city. The limitations contained in this division
may be applied separately with regard to temporary wine and temporary
intoxicating liquor licenses issued to any 1 organization or registered
political committee or for any 1 location.
      (3)   Brewer taproom (microbrewery) on-sale licenses.
         (a)   License authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the City
Code to the contrary, the Council may issue a brewer taproom license for the
on-sale of malt liquor produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises
of or adjacent to 1 brewery location owned by the brewer subject to the
requirements contained in M.S. § 340A.26. The Council may not issue a license
under this section to a brewer if the brewer seeking the license, or any person
having an economic interest in the brewer seeking the license or exercising
control over the brewer seeking the license, is a brewer that brews more than
250,000 barrels of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than
250,000 gallons of wine annually.
         (b)   Applicant. The applicant for a license under this division must
be a brewer licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i), or (j) as amended.
         (c)   Terms and conditions of license.
            1.   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner of
Public Safety.
            2.   The on-sale of malt liquor, permitted by this division, may
only be made during the days and hours that on-sale of liquor may be made by
holders of on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter.
            3.   A brewer may only hold 1 brewer taproom license under this
section.
            4.   The only alcoholic beverage that may be sold or consumed on
the premises of the holder of a brewer taproom license will be the malt liquor
produced by the brewer upon the brewery premises.
            5.   No brewer taproom license shall be issued to a location across
a public right-of-way such as a street or alley from the licensed brewery
location.
            6.   All other provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations shall be applicable to
licenses issued pursuant to this division and the licensees of such licenses
unless inconsistent with the provisions of this division or applicable law.
            7.   Nothing in this division precludes the holder of a brewer
taproom license from also holding a license to operate a restaurant on the
premises of the brewery.
         (d)   Fees. The city shall impose a licensing fee on a brewer holding
a brewer taproom license under this division, subject to limitations applicable
to license fees under M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2(a). The annual license fee for a
license issued pursuant to this division shall be as established from time to
time by the City Council.
         (e)   No single entity may hold both a cocktail room and brewer
taproom license, and a cocktail room and brewer taproom may not be co-located.
         (f)   M.S. § 340A.409 shall apply to any license issued under this
division.
      (4)   Off-sale small brewer (taproom) malt liquor license.
         (a)   License authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the City
Code to the contrary, the Council may issue an off-sale small brewer (taproom)
malt liquor license to a brewer who holds a brewer license issued under M.S. §
340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i), or (j) subject to the requirements contained in M.S.
§ 340A.28 for off-sale of malt liquor at the brewer's licensed premises that
has been produced and packaged by the brewer. The Council may not issue a
license under this section to a brewer if the brewer seeking the license, or
any person having an economic interest in the brewer seeking the license or
exercising control over the brewer seeking the license, is a brewer that brews
more than 20,000 barrels of its own brands of malt liquor annually or a winery
that produces more than 250,000 gallons of wine annually.
         (b)   Applicant. The applicant for the license under this division
must be a brewer licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (i), or (j), as
amended, in order to be licensed for the off-sale of malt liquor produced and
packaged on the licensed premises.
         (c)   Terms and conditions of license.
            1.   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner of
Public Safety.
            2.   The amount of malt liquor sold at off-sale may not exceed 500
barrels annually.
            3.   The off-sale of malt liquor, permitted by this division, may
only be made during the days and hours that off-sale of liquor may be made as
stated in this chapter, except that malt liquor in growlers only may be sold at
off-sale on Sundays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
            4.   The malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the
premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor
stores.
            5.   The malt liquor for off-sale shall be packaged pursuant to
M.S. § 340A.285 in 64-ounce containers commonly known as "growlers" or in 750
milliliter bottles. The containers or bottles shall bear a twist-type closure,
cork, stopper, or plug. At the time of the sale, a paper or plastic adhesive
band, strip, or sleeve shall be applied to the container or bottle and extended
over the top of the twist-type closure, cork, stopper, or plug forming a seal
that must be broken upon opening of the container or bottle. The adhesive band,
strip, or sleeve shall bear the name and address of the brew pub or brewer.
            6.   The containers or bottles shall be identified as malt liquor,
contain the name of the malt liquor, bear the name and address of the brew pub
or brewer selling the malt liquor, and shall be considered intoxicating liquor
unless the alcoholic content is labeled as otherwise in accordance with the
provisions of Minn. Rules § 7515.1100.
            7.   A brew pub or brewer may, but is not required to, refill any
container or bottle with malt liquor for off-sale at the request of a customer.
A brew pub or brewer refilling a container or bottle must do so at its licensed
premises and the container or bottle must be filled at the tap at the time of
sale. A container or bottle refilled under this division must be sealed and
labeled in the same manner as described above.
            8.   A brewer may only have 1 license under this division.
            9.   The city shall impose a licensing fee on a brewer holding a
small brewer license under this division, subject to limitations applicable to
license fees under M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 3(a). The annual license fee for a
license issued pursuant to this division shall be as established from time to
time by the City Council.
      (5)   Off-sale brew pub malt liquor licenses.
         (a)   License authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the City
Code to the contrary and subject to the requirements contained in M.S. §
340A.24, the Council may issue off-sale brew pub malt liquor licenses to a
brewer who holds a brewer license issued under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) for
the operation of a brew pub, and the same shall be operated in and as a part of
a restaurant establishment for which an on-sale intoxicating liquor license has
been issued by the city. The off-sale brew pub malt liquor license authorizes
the off-sale of malt liquor produced and packaged on the premises.
         (b)   Applicant. The applicant for a license under this division must
be a brewer licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) in order to be licensed
for the off-sale of malt liquor produced and packaged on the licensed premises.
         (c)   Terms and conditions of license.
            1.   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner of
Public Safety.
            2.   Brewers must also hold one or more on-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses issued by the city.
            3.   The off-sale of malt liquor, permitted by this division, may
only be made during the days and hours that off-sale of liquor may be made as
stated in this chapter, except that malt liquor in growlers only may be sold at
off-sale on Sundays between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
            4.   The malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the
licensed premises before the applicable closing time.
            5.   The malt liquor for off-sale shall be packaged pursuant to
M.S. § 340A.285 in 64-ounce containers commonly known as "growlers" or in 750
milliliter bottles. The containers or bottles shall bear a twist-type closure,
cork, stopper or plug. At the time of the sale, a paper or plastic adhesive
band, strip, or sleeve shall be applied to the container or bottle and extended
over the top of the twist-type closure, cork, stopper, or plug forming a seal
that must be broken upon opening of the container or bottle. The adhesive band,
strip, or sleeve shall bear the name and address of the brew pub or brewer.
            6.   The containers or bottles shall be identified as malt liquor,
contain the name of the malt liquor, bear the name and address of the brew pub
or brewer selling the malt liquor and shall be considered intoxicating liquor
unless the alcoholic content is labeled as otherwise in accordance with
applicable Minnesota law and the provisions of Minn. Rules § 7515.1100.
            7.   A brew pub or brewer may, but is not required to, refill any
container or bottle with malt liquor for off-sale at the request of a customer.
A brew pub or brewer refilling a container or bottle must do so at its licensed
premises and the container or bottle must be filled at the tap at the time of
sale. A container or bottle refilled under this division must be sealed and
labeled in the manner described in this division.
            8.   A brew pub's total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale under
this division may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year, provided that off-sales
under this division may not exceed 500 barrels per year.
            9.   A brew pub licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d), may
hold or have an interest in other retail on-sale licenses, but may not have an
ownership interest in whole or in part, or be an officer, director, agent, or
employee of, any other manufacturer, brewer, importer, or wholesaler, or be an
affiliate thereof whether the affiliation is corporate or by management,
direction, or control. Notwithstanding this prohibition, a brew pub licensed
under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d), may be an affiliate or subsidiary company of
a brewer licensed in Minnesota or elsewhere if that brewer's only manufacture
of malt liquor is:
               a.   Manufacture licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d);
               b.   Manufacture in another state for consumption exclusively in
a restaurant located in the place of manufacture; or
               c.   Manufacture in another state for consumption primarily in a
restaurant located in or immediately adjacent to the place of manufacture if
the brewer was licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d), on January 1, 1995.
            10.   All other provisions of this chapter, and all other
applicable laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations shall be
applicable to licenses issued pursuant to this section and the licensees of
such licenses unless inconsistent with the provisions of this division.
         (d)   Fees. The annual license fee for a license to be issued pursuant
to this section shall be as established from time to time by the City Council.
      (6)   Cocktail room licenses. A microdistillery licensed under and
subject to the requirements contained in M.S. § 340A.22, may be issued an on-
sale liquor license for the "on sale" of distilled liquor produced by the
distiller for consumption on the licensed premises of or adjacent to 1
distillery location owned by the distiller, subject to the requirements and
rules contained in M.S. Ch. 340A and Minn. Rules § 7515 and the following
conditions:
         (a)   The on-sale of distilled liquor, permitted by this section, may
only be made during the days and hours that on-sale of liquor may be made by
holders of on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter.
         (b)   All other provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to such
licenses and license holders unless inconsistent with the provisions of this
section.
         (c)   A distiller may only have 1 cocktail room license under this
division, and may not have an ownership interest in a distillery licensed under
M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(a).
         (d)   No cocktail room license shall be issued to a locating across a
public right-of-way such as a street or alley from the licensed microdistillery
location.
         (e)   Fees. The city shall impose a licensing fee on a distiller
holding a microdistillery cocktail room license under this division, subject to
limitations applicable to license fees under M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2(a). The
annual license fee for a license to be issued pursuant to this section shall be
as established from time to time by the City Council.
         (f)   Licensed cocktail rooms may operate a restaurant on the premises
without additional licensure.
         (g)   Soft drinks and water may be provided without an additional
license requirement.
         (h)   M.S. § 340A.409 shall apply to any license issued under this
division.
         (i)   No single entity may hold both a cocktail room and brewer
taproom license, and a cocktail room and brewer taproom may not be co-located.
      (7)   Off-sale microdistillery license. A microdistillery licensed under
and subject to the requirements contained in M.S. § 340A.22, may be issued an
off-sale microdistillery liquor license for off-sale of distilled spirits
produced by the distiller at the licensed premises of or adjacent to 1
distillery location owned by the distiller, subject to the requirements and
rules contained in M.S. Ch. 340A and Minn. Rules § 7515 and the following
conditions:
         (a)   The off-sale of distilled liquor, permitted by this division,
may only be made during the days and hours that off-sale of liquor may be made
as stated in this chapter.
         (b)   All other provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to such
licenses and license holders unless inconsistent with the provisions of this
division.
         (c)   No brand may be sold at the microdistillery unless it is also
available for distribution by wholesalers.
      (8)   Wine licenses.
         (a)   On-sale wine license. An on-sale wine license may be issued by
the city with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety to a restaurant
having facilities for seating at least 30 guests at one time. A wine license
permits the sale of wine of up to 24% alcohol by volume for consumption. A wine
license authorizes the sale of wine on all days of the week including Sundays.
A holder of an on-sale wine license issued pursuant to this chapter who is also
licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquor at on-sale pursuant to M.S. § 340A.411, is
also authorized to sell intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an
additional license. The license fee for an on-sale wine license shall be
established by resolution of the City Council from time to time and shall not
exceed any statutory maximum.
         (b)   Bed and breakfast facility. A bed and breakfast facility may be
issued a wine license as follows:
            1.   The city may issue an on-sale wine license with the approval
of the Commissioner of Public Safety to a licensed bed and breakfast facility.
Such a license authorizes a bed and breakfast facility to furnish wine only to
registered guests of the facility and, if the facility contains a licensed
commercial kitchen, also to guests attending private events at the facility.
            2.   No license is required for a registered bed and breakfast
facility which meets the definition of M.S. § 340A.4011, subd. 1, to provide at
no additional charge to a person renting a room at the facility not more than 2
glasses per day, each containing not more than 4 fluid ounces of wine. Wine so
furnished may be consumed only on the premises of the bed and breakfast
facility.
         (c)   Wine tastings. Licenses may be issued for wine tastings as
follows:
            1.   A wine tasting is an event of not more than 4 hours duration
at which persons pay a fee or donation to participate, and the persons are
allowed to consume wine by the glass without paying a separate charge for each
glass. A charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organization may conduct a
wine tasting on premises the organization owns or leases or has use donated to
it, or on the licensed premises of a holder of an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license, subject to compliance with this division. An organization holding a
temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license may be assisted in conducting the
wine tasting by another nonprofit organization.
            2.   An organization that conducts a wine tasting under this
division may use the net proceeds from the wine tasting only for the following:
               a.   The organization's primary nonprofit purpose; or
               b.   Donation to another nonprofit organization assisting in the
wine tasting, if the other nonprofit organization uses the donation only for
that organization's primary nonprofit purpose.
               c.   Wine tastings are subject to all other provisions of M.S. §
340A.418.
      (9)   Sunday on-sale license.
         (a)   Required. A restaurant, club, bowling center, or hotel, as
defined in this chapter, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license may
sell intoxicating liquor between 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Sunday for
consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food if the
establishment has received a special license from the city for such Sunday
sales. An establishment serving intoxicating liquor on Sundays must obtain a
Sunday license. The license shall be issued for a period of 1 year and shall
expire on March 31. The fee for the license shall be established by the City
Council from time to time and may not exceed the statutory maximum, provided
that the fee applicable to any application made after the commencement of the
license year shall not be prorated.
         (b)   A licensed brew pub or brewer taproom, may sell on-sale
intoxicating malt liquor between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and midnight on Sunday
for consumption on the premises unless prohibited by law. A brew pub or brewer
taproom serving intoxicating malt liquor on Sundays must obtain a Sunday
license in accordance with this section and M.S. § 340A.504. No off-sale of
intoxicating malt liquor may be made on Sunday. The license shall be issued for
a period of 1 year and shall expire on March 31. The fee for the license shall
be established by the City Council from time to time and may not exceed the
statutory maximum, provided that the fee applicable to any application made
after the commencement of the license year shall not be prorated.
         (c)   Application. Application for a Sunday license shall be made to
the city in the same manner and by complying with the same requirements as
required for a license to sell intoxicating liquors, except for the
investigation fee.
         (d)   Hours. The holder of a Sunday license may serve intoxicating
liquors between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 12:00 midnight on Sundays, and the
premises shall be vacated by 12:30 a.m. on Monday. However, under special
conditions, such as holidays and special celebrations, the City Council may by
resolution extend the serving and closing times for a particular Sunday to be
the same as the maximum allowed by state law.
      (10)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a social activity
in the city sponsored by the organization. M.S. § 340A.414 regulating the
licensing of establishments for the consumption and display of intoxicating
liquor is adopted by reference. Consumption and display permits shall expire on
March 31 of each year. Permits issued under this division are subject to all
laws and ordinances governing the sale of alcoholic beverages except those laws
and ordinances which by their nature are not applicable.
      (11)   Caterer's permit. Caterer's permits may be issued pursuant to and
shall comply with M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 12. A caterer's permit is auxiliary to
the primary on-sale license held by the licensee. The restrictions and
regulations which apply to the sale of intoxicating liquor on the licensed
premises also apply to the sale under the authority of a caterer's permit, and
any act that is prohibited on the licensed premises is also prohibited when the
licensee is operating other than on the licensed premises under a caterer's
permit. Permits issued under this division are subject to all laws and
ordinances governing the sale of alcoholic beverages except those laws and
ordinances which by their nature are not applicable. The licensee shall provide
written notice to the Police Chief a minimum of 14 days in advance of the event
containing the following information:
         (a)   Contact information for licensee and on-site manager for the
event;
         (b)   Location of the event; and
         (c)   Time of the event.
(1987 Code, § 406.02) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.03 APPLICATIONS AND LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Forms of application.
      (1)   Any person desiring a license shall make a verified application in
writing to the City Administrator.
      (2)   The application shall require the following information:
         (a)   Type of license desired;
         (b)   Applicant's name, age, home address, and citizenship;
         (c)   Whether the person has been convicted of a felony or any willful
violation of a federal or state law or local ordinance governing the
manufacture, sale, distribution or possession for sale or distribution, of an
alcoholic beverage or whose liquor license has been revoked for any willful
violation of any such laws or ordinances;
         (d)   Whether the person has had an intoxicating liquor or
nonintoxicating liquor license revoked within 5 years of the license
application; or whether the person at the time of the violation owns any
interest, whether as a holder of more than 5% of the capital stock of a
corporation licensee, as a partner or otherwise, in the premises or in the
business conducted thereon; or whether the applicant is a corporation,
partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm in which any person is
in any manner interested;
         (e)   The location of the premises upon which the applicant proposes
to sell liquor, an exact description of the particular place within the
building structure where the sales are proposed; the nature of the business
with which the license shall operate, and the length of time the applicant has
occupied the premises;
         (f)   Preliminary plans and sketches of new structures or facilities
within which licensed premises are to be located (for on-sale or off-sale
license applicants only);
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in a similar
business, and if so, the location of the business and the dates when so
engaged;
         (h)   Names and addresses of 2 persons capable of giving first-hand
information concerning the applicant's moral character and general business
reputation;
         (i)    Whether the applicant is the owner of the business with which
the proposed license will operate and, if so, the length of time the applicant
has owned the business. If the applicant is not the owner, or other beneficial
owners exist, the name of the owner or any beneficial owner must be listed;
         (j)   Whether the applicant has a direct or indirect interest in a
manufacturer, brewer or wholesaler;
         (k)   Whether the applicant is directly or indirectly interested in
any other establishment in the city to which a license has been issued under
this chapter; the term INTERESTED as used in this division means and includes
any pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation, management or profits of
such an establishment;
         (l)   Whether the applicant is the spouse of a person ineligible for a
license under this section.
         (m)   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation,
partnership, or other form of organization;
         (n)   The names, and addresses of all persons, other than the
applicant, who have any financial interest in the business, buildings,
premises, fixtures, furniture, or stock in trade, including, but not limited
to, any lessees, lessors, mortgagees, mortgagors, lenders, lien holders,
trustees, trustors, and persons who have co-signed notes or otherwise loaned,
pledged, or extended security for any indebtedness of the applicant; and the
name of such interest, the amount of the interest; terms for payment or other
reimbursement;
         (o)   Whether or not all real estate and personal property taxes for
the premises to be licensed have been paid and, if not paid, the years for
which such taxes are delinquent;
         (p)   Any other information that the city requires.
   (B)   Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor. A temporary on-sale
nonintoxicating liquor license application shall require the following
information:
      (1)   Name of the organization;
      (2)   Date of the local chapter's formation or incorporation;
      (3)   Any state or national affiliation;
      (4)   Location of the premises upon which the license is to operate; and
      (5)   Dates for which the license is to be effective.
   (C)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor. A temporary on-sale
intoxicating liquor license application shall require the following
information:
      (1)   Name of the organization;
      (2)   Date of the local chapter's formation or incorporation;
      (3)   Any state or national affiliation;
      (4)   Location of the premises upon which the license is to operate; and
      (5)   Dates for which the license is to be effective.
   (D)   Liability insurance. No license may be issued unless the applicant
demonstrates proof of financial responsibility with regard to liability imposed
by M.S. § 340A.801.
      (1)   Proof of financial responsibility.
         (a)   Proof of financial responsibility must be submitted to the City
Administrator at the time of application for a new license or renewal of an
existing license and may be given by filing a certificate of insurance that
there is in effect an insurance policy issued by an insurer required to be
licensed under M.S. § 60A.07, subd. 4, or by an insurer recognized as an
eligible surplus lines carrier pursuant to M.S. § 60A.206 or pool providing at
least $300,000 of coverage because of bodily injury to any 1 person in any 1
occurrence, $1,000,000 because of bodily injury to 2 or more persons in any 1
occurrence, $100,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others
in any 1 occurrence, $300,000 for loss of means of support of any 1 person in
any 1 occurrence, and $1,000,000 for loss of means of support of 2 or more
persons in any 1 occurrence;
         (b)   If the application for a license under this chapter is for a new
license or a renewal, the applicant must provide proof of insurance valid from
January 1 through December 31. If the application is for a license for any
portion of a year, the applicant must provide proof of insurance valid from the
date of approval of the license through December 31.
      (2)   Exclusions. The insurance requirements in this division do not
apply to licensees who by affidavit establish that:
         (a)   They are on-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $25,000 of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year;
         (b)   They are off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licensees with sales of less
than $50,000 of 3.2% malt liquor for the preceding year;
         (c)   They are holders of on-sale wine licenses with sales of less
than $25,000 for wine for the preceding year; or
         (d)   They are holders of temporary wine licenses issued under law.
   (E)   Approval of security. The security offered under division (D) above
shall be approved by the City Administrator and Council. Any licensed business
operating without the required security effective on file with the city, may
have its license revoked.
   (F)   License fees. License fees are established by the City Council. No
license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit established
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a liquor license.
The Council may establish from time to time in ordinance the fee for any of the
liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the
cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the
application, investigation and enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter.
No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing mailed notice of a
hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least 30 days
before the hearing.
      (1)   Investigation fee.
         (a)   In general, at the time of each original application for a
license, the applicant must also pay an investigation fee as established by the
City Council. If the expenses of the investigation exceed the investigation
fee, the City Administrator will notify the applicant and require the applicant
to pay an additional investigation fee as established by the City Council,
which the City Administrator deems necessary to complete the investigation of
the applicant. The applicant must pay any additional investigation fee within 5
days after notification and before the license will be issued. If such
additional investigation fee is not paid within the 5-day period, the city will
give no further consideration to the application.
         (b)   Exceptions. The city will not charge an investigation fee for a
Sunday license. The city will provide a partial or complete waiver of any
applicable investigation fee if all of the following conditions exist:
            1.   The applicant is a fraternal, veterans, or charitable
organization;
            2.   Revenues in excess of operating expenses are contributed to
the support of community projects or programs; and
            3.   The officers of the organization are elected by and
responsible to the general membership.
         (c)   Additional investigation. If additional investigation is
required because of a change in the ownership, interest or control of a
partnership or a corporation, or other reasons determined necessary by the City
Administrator, the applicant must pay an additional investigation as
established by the City Council.
      (2)   Specific license fees. Fees for specific licenses are as follows:
Type of License Fee
Type of License                         Fee
On-sale intoxicating liquor issued to   $1,400
any person except a club
Club on-sale issued to a club with less $200
than 200 members
Club on-sale issued to a club with more $250
than 200 members
On-sale 3.2% liquor                     $100
On-sale temporary intoxicating liquor   $25/day
On-sale nonintoxicating wine            $20
On-sale wine                            $100
Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor; per $10
day
Off-sale intoxicating liquor            $240
Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor               $100
Off-sale nonintoxicating liquor         $50
Combination on-sale and off-sale        Sum of appropriate specific license
                                        fees
Sunday only on-sale intoxicating        $200
license
Off-sale small brewer taproom malt      $200
liquor
On-sale brewer taproom microbrewery     $200
malt liquor
Off-sale brew pub growler malt liquor   $100
On-sale cocktail room microdistillery   $1,400
Off-sale microdistillery                $100
Consumption and display                 $200
Investigation fee                       $150
 
      (3)   Transfers. No license may be issued, transferred or renewed if the
results of the investigation show, to the satisfaction of the governing body
that issuance, transfer or renewal would not be in the public interest.
      (4)   Payment.
         (a)   An applicant for any license must pay the total license fee when
the application is filed.
         (b)   All fees shall be paid into the General Fund.
         (c)   Upon rejection or withdrawal of any application for a license,
the license fee will be refunded to the applicant except where rejection or
withdrawal is for a willful misstatement in the license application.
      (5)   Pro-rata fee. Each license except a temporary license shall be
issued for a period of 1 year unless the application is made during the license
year (January 1 through December 31). If application is made during the license
year, a license may be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee
with any unexpired fraction of a month being counted as 1 month. Every license
shall expire on December 31.
      (6)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute. Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time
to time, a pro rata share of an annual license fee for a retail license to sell
intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor, either on-sale or off-sale, may be refunded
to the licensee or to the licensee's estate if:
         (a)   The business ceases to operate because of destruction or damage;
         (b)   The licensee dies;
         (c)   The business ceases to be lawful for a reason other than a
license revocation; or
         (d)   The licensee ceases to carry on the licensed business under the
license.
(1987 Code, § 406.03) (Am. Ord. 530, passed 12-8-2009; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-
23-2017)
§ 113.04 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance.
      (1)   Each applicant shall be referred to the chief law enforcement
officer of the city for investigation. Applications for licenses will be
referred to the chief law enforcement officer and to such other city
departments as the City Administrator deems necessary, for verification and
investigation of the facts set forth in the application. The chief law
enforcement officer will make such investigation of the information requested
in this chapter as necessary and will make a written recommendation and report
to the City Council.
      (2)   Each person who has or will have any beneficial interest in the
license shall also be so investigated.
      (3)   The law enforcement officer shall make necessary inquiry and list
all violations of federal and state law or this Municipal Code.
      (4)   For license renewals, the investigation shall include verified
complaints regarding the premises to which the license applies while the
premises were under the applicant's ownership.
      (5)   The City Administrator may refer the application to the Fire Chief
for investigation of the premises to be licensed as the Fire Chief or the
Council deems necessary.
      (6)   The chief law enforcement officer and the Fire Chief shall report
their findings and comments to the Council which may then conduct additional
investigation as it deems necessary.
      (7)   Public hearing and issuance.
         (a)   A public hearing will be held for original applications on
annual licenses. Upon completion of the City Clerk's preliminary report, the
Council will instruct the City Clerk to publish a notice of the hearing in the
official newspaper 10 days in advance of the hearing to be held by the City
Council. The notice must set forth the day, time and place where the hearing
will be held, the name of the applicant, the premises where the business is to
be conducted, and such other information as the Council may direct.
         (b)   At the hearing, opportunity will be given to any person to be
heard for or against the granting of the license. The applicant or applicant's
representative may be present at the hearing to provide such additional
information as may be required by the Council. Failure to be present at the
meeting is grounds for denial of the application.
         (c)   1.   After the hearing, the Council may in its sound discretion
either grant or deny the application for any license or for the transfer or
renewal of any license.
            2.   If the Council grants the license, the Council may withhold
its issuance until the applicant is fully-qualified for the license. If the
premises to be licensed are not complete at the time that the hearing is
conducted, the Council may grant the license but will withhold its issuance
until the premises have been completed in accordance with the representations
made by the applicant. If a license has been granted but its issuance has been
withheld pending completion of the premises to be licensed, and if the licensee
does not complete the premises within a reasonable time, the Council may
rescind its action granting the license. Before the Council takes such action,
however, it must give the licensee at least 8 days mailed notice of the time
and place of a hearing on the proposed rescission.
         (d)   No applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
   (B)   Qualifications of licensee.
      (1)   A license shall not be issued to any of the following:
         (a)   A person who is ineligible for a license under state law;
         (b)   A person who is under 21 years of age;
         (c)   A person who within 5 years of the license application has been
convicted of a felony or any willful violation of a federal or state law or
local ordinance governing the manufacture, sale, distribution or possession for
sale or distribution an alcoholic beverage or whose liquor license has been
revoked for any willful violation of any such laws or ordinances;
         (d)   A person who has had an intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating
liquor license revoked within 5 years of the license application, or to any
person who at the time of the violation owns any interest, whether as a holder
of more than 5% of the capital stock of a corporation licensee, as a partner or
otherwise, in the premises or in the business conducted thereon, or to a
corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business or firm in which
any like person is in any manner interested;
         (e)   A person not of good moral character and repute;
         (f)   A person who has a direct or indirect interest in a
manufacturer, brewer or wholesaler;
         (g)   A person who is directly or indirectly interested in any other
establishment in the city to which a license has been issued under this
chapter; the term INTERESTED as used in this division means and includes any
pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation, management or profits of such
an establishment;
         (h)   A person who is the spouse of a person ineligible for a license
under this section; or
         (i)   A person who, in the judgment of the City Council, is not the
real party in interest or beneficial owner of the business operated, or to be
operated, under the license.
      (2)   No license shall be granted to any person who has a delinquent
financial obligation to the city.
   (C)   Building requirements. No sales shall be permitted except in that part
of the premises described in the license. The structure within which liquor is
to be sold shall be in compliance with applicable building and safety codes at
all times.
   (D)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under M.S. § 340A.412, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for any premises owned by a person to
whom a license may not be granted under this Code.
      (3)   No license shall be issued for premises located within the areas
restricted against commercial use by the city zoning ordinances or other
proceedings or legal processes regularly had for that purpose, except licenses
may be issued to restaurants in areas which were restricted against commercial
uses after the establishment of the restaurant. No license shall be issued
contrary to the provisions of the City Charter or ordinances or any special or
general state laws restricting areas within which intoxicating liquor may be
sold.
      (4)   No license shall be issued for any premises upon which taxes or
assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are due,
delinquent and unpaid. The City Council may, upon request by the applicant or
licensee, waive strict compliance with this provision if the applicant or
licensee has contested their tax liabilities or other financial claims through
a process permitted by federal or state regulations or by city ordinance; or is
working out debt problems under the supervision of a bankruptcy court or
pursuant to some other formal agreement. No waiver may be granted, however, if
taxes or any portion thereof, remain unpaid for a period exceeding 1 year after
becoming due.
      (5)   Corporations and other business entities. A corporation or other
business entity is ineligible for a license or a license renewal if any of its
officers or managers are ineligible for a license under this division.
      (6)   Veterans organization or club. A veterans organization or club that
does not limit access to the organization's facilities to members and their
bona fide guests is not eligible for a license.
   (E)   Conditions for license. Every license is subject to the conditions in
this chapter and all other provisions of this Code and any other applicable
ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (F)   Transfer of license.
      (1)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant and for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
person or place without prior Council approval. Any of the following will be
deemed a transfer of ownership for purposes of this chapter:
         (a)   Transfer of any or all of the stock of a corporate licensee;
         (b)   Change of business premises' physical location; or
         (c)   Addition of a beneficial owner in any way, including but not
limited to the creation of a partnership or corporation when the license is
issued to a sole proprietor, or the addition of new partners in the case of an
existing partnership licensee.
      (2)   Any transfer without the prior approval of the Council shall be
grounds for license revocation.
      (3)   Each corporate licensee shall report to the City Administrator any
proposed change of legal ownership or beneficial ownership. The report shall be
in writing and shall list all stockholders, their residential addresses, the
number of shares held by each and whether the shares are held individually or
for the benefit of others. The report shall include all powers of attorney for
proxies granted.
      (4)   The Council or any other officer designated by the Council may at
any reasonable hour examine the stock, transfer records, minute books and other
business records of a corporate licensee to determine the interest of any and
all persons in the corporate licensee, the ownership and voting of shares of
stock of the corporation and whether any change of legal ownership or
beneficial interest in certain shares of stock has directly or indirectly
resulted in multiple ownership or in a change of control of the licensee.
      (5)   An application to transfer a license shall be treated the same as
an application for a new license, and all of the provisions of this Code
applying to applications for a license shall apply.
   (G)   Renewal applications. The decision whether or not to renew a license
rests within the sound discretion of the Council. No licensee has a right to
have the license renewed.
      (1)   Time of renewal. Applications for the renewal of a license must be
filed with the City Administrator at least 60 days prior to the date of the
expiration of the license and shall contain such information as required by the
state, the City Council, the City Administrator and any additional information
the city deems necessary. If in the judgment of the Council good and sufficient
cause is shown by any applicant for failure to file for a renewal within the
time provided, the Council may, if the other provisions of this section are
complied with, waive this requirement and grant the application.
      (2)   Statement for food sales. At the time a restaurant, brew pub or
hotel submits a renewal application for an on-sale license, the applicant must
file with the Director a statement made by a certified public accountant that
shows the total alcohol sales and the total food sales of the restaurant, brew
pub or hotel for the 12-month period immediately preceding the date for filing
the renewal application.
      (3)   Production reports. At the time a micro-brewery or microdistillery
submits a renewal application for an on-sale or off-sale license, the applicant
must file with the City Administrator production report showing the total
volume of alcoholic beverages produced for the 12-month period immediately
preceding the date for filing the renewal application.
(1987 Code, § 406.04) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.05 NUMBER OF LICENSES ISSUED.
   (A)   On-sale license limit. Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 1, not more
than 4 on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses shall be issued.
   (B)   Exclusion from on-sale license limit. Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.413,
subd. 4, on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued to the following
entities by the city, in addition to the number authorized by this section:
      (1)   Clubs, or congressionally chartered veterans organizations;
      (2)   Restaurants;
      (3)   Establishments that are issued licenses to sell wine under M.S. §
340A.404, subd. 5;
      (4)   Theaters that are issued licenses under M.S. § 340A.404;
      (5)   Hotels; and
      (6)   Bowling centers.
   (C)    Off-sale license limit. Pursuant to M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 5, not
more than 5 off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses shall be issued.
(1987 Code, § 406.05) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.06 LIMITATION ON LICENSES ISSUED.
   (A)   No more than 1 retailer’s license shall be directly or indirectly
issued under this chapter to any 1 person or for any 1 place in the city, nor
shall any retailer’s on-sale or off-sale license be directly or indirectly
issued for any place which has been granted a license of another class.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person, partnership or corporation to
knowingly have or possess a direct or indirect interest in more than 1 license
issued under this chapter and, upon conviction thereof, the Council may
immediately revoke all licenses in which the personal, partnership or
corporation has an interest.
   (C)   For this chapter, the term INTEREST has the following meaning:
      (1)   Includes any pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation,
management or profits of a retail liquor establishment, and a person who
receives money from time to time directly or indirectly from a licensee, in the
absence of consideration and excluding gifts or donations, has a pecuniary
interest in the retail license; and
      (2)   Does not include loans; rental agreement; open accounts or other
obligations held with or without security arising out of the ordinary and
regular course of business of selling or leasing merchandise, fixtures,
supplies to the establishment; an interest in a corporation owning or operating
a hotel but having at least 150 or more rental units holding a liquor license
in conjunction therewith; or 10% or less interest in any other corporation
holding a license.
   (D)   In determining whether an interest exists, the transaction must have
been bona fide and the reasonable value of the goods and things received as
consideration for a payment by the licensee and all other facts reasonably
tending to prove or disprove the existence of a purposeful scheme or
arrangement to evade the restrictions of this division must be considered.
(1987 Code, § 406.06)
§ 113.07 HOURS.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state law allows.
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor. No sale of 3.2% malt liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises may be made between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of
Tuesday through Saturday, nor between 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday, nor
between 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 8:00 a.m. Monday.
   (C)   Intoxicating liquor; on-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the licensed premises may be made:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Tuesday through
Saturday;
      (2)   Between 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 8:00 a.m. on Mondays;
      (3)   After 1:00 a.m. on Sundays, except as provided by division (C)
below; or
      (4)   Between 8:00 p.m. on December 24 and 8:00 a.m. on December 25,
except as provided by division (C) below.
   (D)   Intoxicating liquor; Sunday sales; on-sale. Hours for Sunday sales are
as provided in §
113.02(B)(9).
   (E)   Intoxicating liquor; off-sale. No sale of intoxicating liquor may be
made by an off-sale licensee:
      (1)   On Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.;
      (2)   Before 8:00 a.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (3)   After 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday;
      (4)   On Thanksgiving Day;
      (5)   On Christmas Day, December 25; or
      (6)   After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
   (F)   After hours consumption prohibited. No person licensed to sell liquor
shall permit or allow any person to possess or consume alcoholic beverages on
the licensed premises later than ½ hour after the last respective time allowed
for the sale of alcoholic beverages. It is unlawful for alcoholic beverages to
be consumed on the licensed premises during the times when the sale of
alcoholic beverages is prohibited.
   (G)   Vacation of licensed premises. No licensee shall permit any consumer,
patron or person whomsoever, except employees of the licensee, to remain on the
licensed premises later than ½ hour after the last respective time allowed for
the sale of alcoholic beverages. Beginning 30 minutes after the time when the
sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited, no alcoholic beverages in any
quantity may be consumed, possessed, or displayed until the sale is again
permitted by this chapter. The stock of liquors kept on the premises for sale
in the normal course of business that is accessible only to the licensee or the
licensee's employees is exempt. No person may remain on the premises, except
the owner or licensee, or the owner's or licensee's agents or employees only
for the purpose of cleaning, preparing meals, making repairs or performing
other work-related duties.
   (H)   Hours for temporary on-sale licenses. The respective hours for sale of
alcoholic beverages under a temporary on-sale license shall be fixed at the
time the license is issued, and may be more restrictive but not less
restrictive than the restrictions contained in this section.
   (I)   Sale between 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m. It shall be unlawful for any
licensee to sell alcoholic beverages between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. unless the licensee has obtained a permit to do so from the Commissioner
and from the city.
   (J)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license in addition to prosecution thereof.
(1987 Code, § 406.07) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of 1 year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner, and the accompanying city consent
to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.09 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   Except as further restricted or regulated by this chapter, the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 340A, relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption,
sales, financial responsibility of licensees, hours of sale, and all other
matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of 3.2%
malt liquor and intoxicating liquor, are adopted and made a part of this
chapter as if set out in full. In accordance with M.S. § 340A.509, the city may
impose further restrictions and regulations on the sale and possession of
alcoholic beverages within city limits. Whenever there is an inconsistency
between the provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as amended, and the provisions of this
section, the more restrictive provision shall govern.
(Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
SPECIFIC REGULATIONS
§ 113.20 PERSONS UNDER TWENTY-ONE; ILLEGAL ACTS.
   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any:
      (1)   Retail intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating liquor licensee or
bottle club (consumption and display) permit holder under M.S. § 340A.414, as
it may be amended from time to time, to permit any person under the age of 21
years to consume alcoholic beverages on the licensed premises; or
      (2)   Person under the age of 21 years to consume any alcoholic beverages
unless in the household of the person's parent or guardian and with the consent
of the parent or guardian.
   (B)   Purchasing. It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To sell, barter, furnish or give alcoholic beverages to a person
under 21 years of age, except that a parent or guardian of a person under the
age of 21 years may give or furnish alcoholic beverages to that person solely
for consumption in the household of the parent or guardian;
      (2)   Under the age of 21 years to purchase or attempt to purchase any
alcoholic beverage unless under the supervision of a responsible person over
the age of 21 for training, education, or research purposes. Prior notification
of the licensing authority is required unless the supervised alcohol purchase
attempt is for professional research conducted by postsecondary educational
institutions or state, county, or local health departments; or
      (3)   To induce a person under the age of 21 years to purchase or procure
any alcoholic beverage or to lend or knowingly permit the use of the person's
driver's license, permit, Minnesota identification card, or other form of
identification by a person under the age of 21 years for the purpose of
purchasing or attempting to purchase an alcoholic beverage.
   (C)   Possession.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years to possess
any alcoholic beverage with the intent to consume it at a place other than the
household of the person's parent or guardian.
      (2)   Possession at a place other than the household of the parent or
guardian creates a rebuttable presumption of intent to consume it at a place
other than the household of the parent or guardian.
   (D)   Entering licensed premises.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a person under the age of 21 years to enter an
establishment licensed for the sale of alcoholic beverages for the purpose of
purchasing or having served or delivered any alcoholic beverage.
      (2)   Notwithstanding M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be amended from time to
time, no ordinance enacted by a statutory or home rule charter city may
prohibit a person 18, 19 or 20 years of age from entering an establishment
licensed under this chapter to:
         (a)   Perform work for the establishment, including the serving of
alcoholic beverages, unless otherwise prohibited by M.S. § 340A.412, subd. 10,
as it may be amended from time to time;
         (b)   Consume meals; and
         (c)   Attend social functions that are held in a portion of the
establishment where alcoholic beverages are not sold.
   (E)   Misrepresentation of age. It is unlawful for a person under the age of
21 years to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of purchasing alcoholic
beverages.
   (F)   Proof of age. Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by 1 of the following:
      (1)   A valid driver's license or identification card issued by
Minnesota, another state, or a province of Canada, and including the photograph
and date of birth of the licensed person;
      (2)   A valid military identification card issued by the United States
Department of Defense;
      (3)   A valid passport issued by the United States;
      (4)   A valid instructional permit issued under M.S. § 171.05 to a person
of legal age to purchase alcohol which includes a photograph and the date of
birth of the person issued the permit; or
      (5)   In the case of a foreign national, by a valid passport.
   (G)   Seizure of false identification. A licensed retailer may seize a form
of identification listed above if the retailer has reasonable grounds to
believe that the form of identification has been altered or falsified or is
being used to violate any law. A retailer that seizes a form of identification
as authorized under this division must deliver it to a law enforcement agency,
within 24 hours of seizing it.
   (H)   Adoption of state law. M.S. § 340A.503 pertaining to illegal acts
involving persons under 21 years of age are adopted by reference.
(1987 Code, § 406.08) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.21 EMPLOYMENT OF MINORS.
   No person under 18 years of age may be employed in a place where alcoholic
beverages are sold for consumption on the premises, except persons under 18
years of age may be employed as musicians or in bussing or washing dishes in a
restaurant or hotel, club or other establishment that is licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages and may be employed as waiters or waitresses at a
restaurant, hotel, club or other establishment that is licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages, provided that the person under the age of 18 may not serve
or sell any alcoholic beverages. No person under 18 years of age may offer for
sale, sell, or in any way assist in the sale of alcoholic beverages for
consumption off the premises. This prohibition does not apply to activities
merely incidental to the sale of alcoholic beverages, such as stocking shelves
or carrying alcoholic beverages from the establishment at a customer's request.
(1987 Code, § 406.09) (Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.22 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS; GENERAL.
   (A)   False application. Any person who makes a false statement in a license
application shall be denied a license if one has not yet been issued or shall
have the license revoked if one has been issued.
   (B)   License posting. A retail license to sell alcoholic beverages must be
posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used.
   (C)   Gambling prohibited.
      (1)   No retail establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages may
keep, possess or operate, or permit the keeping, possession or operation on the
licensed premises of dice or any gambling device as defined in M.S. § 349.30,
as it may be amended from time to time, or permit gambling therein except as
provided in this division.
      (2)   Gambling equipment may be kept or operated and raffles conducted on
licensed premises and adjoining rooms when the use of the gambling equipment is
authorized under M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Dice games may be conducted on the premises and adjoining rooms of
a retail establishment licensed to sell alcoholic beverages if the following
requirements are satisfied:
         (a)   The games consist of board games played with dice or commonly
known dice games such as "shake-a-day," "3-2-1," "who buys," "last chance,"
"liar's poker," "6-5-4," "horse" and "aces;"
         (b)   Wages or prizes for the games are limited to food or beverages;
and
         (c)   The retail establishment does not organize or participate
financially in the games.
   (D)   Racial discrimination; clubs. No retail license to sell alcoholic
beverages may be issued or renewed by the city to a club which discriminates
against members or applicants for membership or guests of members on the basis
of race.
   (E)   License limited to space specified. A retail license to sell any
alcoholic beverage is only effective for the compact and contiguous space
specified in the approved license application.
   (F)   Booths restricted. No booths shall be allowed, or used on any on-sale
premises, greater than 42 inches in height.
   (G)   General welfare standards.
      (1)   The city does hereby ordain that it is in the best interest of the
public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that
certain types of activities, as set forth in this chapter are prohibited upon
the premises of licensed liquor, wine and beer establishments so as to best
protect and assist the owners and operators and employees of these premises, as
well as patrons and the public in general.
      (2)   Further, that the city does ordain that the standards in this
chapter reflect the prevailing community standards in the city.
      (3)   This chapter is intended to prevent harm stemming from the physical
immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity and sex.
      (4)   The Council also desires to prevent any subliminal endorsement of
sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the possibility of various
criminal conduct such as prostitution, sexual assault and disorderly conduct.
   (H)   Certain acts prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any licenses to
permit to allow any person or persons from being upon the licensed premises
when the person does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breast and genitals
covered with a non-transparent material.
   (I)   Conduct. The licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of
business and for the conditions of sobriety and order in the place of business
and on the premise.
(1987 Code, § 406.10) (Am. Ord. 440, passed 9-14-1999; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-
23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.23 DRINKING IN PUBLIC.
    The following provisions shall apply unless a place is licensed under this
chapter or unless specific Council authorization is given:
   (A)   General prohibition. No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage or
possess any open bottles or receptacles containing an alcoholic beverage in any
public place unless otherwise permitted by this section, by other City Code
provision, or by special permission of the City Council. For purposes of this
section, PUBLIC PLACE means any street, avenue, alley, road, highway, sidewalk,
boulevard, parking lot or facility, park, or other public property or premises;
and
   (B)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding §
113.23(A), consumption of alcoholic beverages and possession of open bottles or
receptacles containing alcoholic beverages shall be allowed within the
boundaries of the following public parks during hours the parks are open for
public use:
      (1)   Brookwood Park;
      (2)   City Park;
      (3)   Jessens Park;
      (4)   Kieffer Park;
      (5)   Meadow View Park;
      (6)   Oakview Park;
      (7)   Whispering Hills Park;
      (8)   The portion of Sportsman's Park within city limits; and
      (9)   City Hall Park.
   (C)   Park boundaries. For the purpose of this section the park area extends
only to the beginning edge of any street fit for vehicular travel, parking lot
serving the public park, privately owned property line bordering the public
park, or any sign erected by the city that states either, "Alcohol Permitted in
Park Area Only" or "No Alcohol Beyond This Point." For the purposes of this
section streets, alleys, or any other right-of-way or paved boundary
surrounding the edge of the park other than sidewalks shall not be considered
land within park boundaries.
   (D)   Additional prohibitions. Notwithstanding the exceptions listed in
division (B) of this section, alcoholic beverages shall not be possessed or
consumed under any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   In any of the permitted spaces after the parks have closed, as
stated in §
95.01(B) of the Code;
      (2)   By any person who has been charged by citation with any crime
committed within the boundary of any park listed in division (C) of this
section during the same day that the person is charged with such a crime;
      (3)   When any peace officer licensed by the City of St. Charles or any
court of law has otherwise revoked a person's consent to consume alcohol; or
      (4)   By any person who is present within, operating, or in physical
control of a motor vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169A.03 subdivision 15 of the
Minnesota Impaired Driving Code.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalty. This section can be enforced by any person
with a Minnesota Peace Officer's License with jurisdiction in the City of St.
Charles. Violation of this section is a misdemeanor.
   (F)   The city may impose a voluntary administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal citation or complaint.
   (G)   Authority. This section is enacted pursuant to M.S. §§ 145A.05 and
340A.509.
(1987 Code, § 406.11) (Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008; Am. Ord, 592, passed 5-
23-2017; Am. Ord. 621, passed 5-26-2020)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.24 LICENSE PENALTIES, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Civil penalties. The Council shall either suspend for up to 60 days,
revoke the license or permit, impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000 for each
violation or impose any combination of these sanctions, on a finding that the
license or permit holder has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation, or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Right to hearing. No suspension or revocation takes effect until the
license or permit holder has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing
pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it
may be amended from time to time. The City Council may act as the hearing body
under that act, or it may contract with the Office of Administrative Hearings
for a hearing officer. Sales during suspension and failure to pay civil fines
within 30 days, shall each constitute an additional violation.
   (C)   Notice. The City Administrator shall provide written notice to the
holder of a license who has violated an applicable statute, rule, license
condition or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages stating the nature of
the violation, the civil penalties imposed, the timing of payment of such
penalties, the licensee's right to request a hearing thereon if such a request
is made in writing by the licensee to the City Administrator within 10 days of
the date of such notice, and that failure to timely request a hearing
constitutes termination and waiver by the licensee of the right to a hearing.
If the licensee makes a timely request for a hearing, such a hearing will be
noticed and scheduled. Notice of any hearing on a proposed revocation or
suspension of any license under this code shall be given by certified mail or
hand delivery to the licensee at least 10 days before the hearing and shall
state the specific reasons for the proposed revocation or suspension. Notice
shall be published once in the official city newspaper at least 10 days before
the hearing. The provisions of §§
113.24,
113.32, and
113.99 pertaining to civil administrative penalties and prosecution may be
imposed in addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this
chapter.
   (D)   Hearing expenses. If the notice of violation is upheld by the hearing
officer, the city's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of
$500 shall be paid by the person requesting the hearing and shall be in
addition to any penalties imposed. In such event, hearing expenses shall be
included as part of the hearing officer's findings and paid at the same time
the penalty is paid.
   (E)   Timely payment. In the event that any imposed penalty or hearing
expenses are not timely paid in accordance with the notice of violation or the
hearing officer's decision, as applicable, such failure shall serve as grounds
for immediate license suspension or revocation as provided in this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the district court for the county in which the alleged violation
occurred within 14 calendar days following the hearing date or the date of any
continuance, recess or postponement thereof.
   (G)   Prosecution. In addition to the process contained in this section for
civil license violations, violation of this chapter shall also be a criminal
offense and prosecuted accordingly.
   (H)   Council discretion. Any license granted hereunder may be revoked by
the Council if continuing the business under the license is injurious to the
public health, safety, welfare, or morals of the community in the discretion of
the Council.
   (I)   Specified opening date. Each license applicant shall specify the
number of days within which the establishment will open for business after the
license is issued. If the establishment does not open for business within 60
days of the specified date, the license shall be revoked automatically unless
the licensee has been granted an extension prior to the 60-day deadline by
Council resolution.
(1987 Code, § 406.12) (Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-
23-2017)
§ 113.25 INTOXICATED PERSONS.
   No person may sell, give, furnish or in any way procure for another,
alcoholic beverages for use by an obviously intoxicated person.
(1987 Code, § 406.13) (Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.26 INTOXICATING LIQUOR PROHIBITED ON 3.2% MALT LIQUOR LICENSE PREMISES.
   (A)   No 3.2% malt liquor licensee who is not also licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor shall sell or permit the consumption or display of
intoxicating liquors on the licensed premises or serve any liquids for the
purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor. The presence of intoxicating
liquors on the premises of such a licensee shall be prima facie evidence of
possession of intoxicating liquors for the purpose of sale and serving the
liquid for the purpose of sale. Serving a liquid for mixing with intoxicating
liquors shall be prima facie evidence that consumption or display of
intoxicating liquor is permitted contrary to this chapter.
   (B)   Any peace officer shall have the unqualified right to enter, inspect,
and search the premises of a licensee during business hours without a search
warrant and seizure warrant and may seize all intoxicating liquors found on the
licensed premises.
(1987 Code, § 406.14) (Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.27 DELIVERIES.
   No delivery of alcoholic beverages by the use of public streets or alleys
shall be made by any licensee or any public conveyance between the hours of 12:
00 a.m. midnight and 8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday. No delivery of alcohol
to an off-sale licensee may be made by a wholesaler or accepted by an off-sale
licensee on a Sunday. No order solicitation or merchandising may be made by a
wholesaler on a Sunday.
(1987 Code, § 406.15) (Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 952, passed 5-
23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.28 POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   (A)   Exceptions. A temporary on-sale intoxicating malt liquor license shall
clearly indicate permission to sell within the prohibited area when the Council
so authorizes. The temporary license may limit the sale of nonintoxicating malt
liquor to an area within the prohibited area which is less than the total
prohibited area. Possession outside the licensed area but within the generally
prohibited area shall constitute a violation of this code. When permission to
sell within the prohibited area is granted, the licensee shall clearly display
at the point of sale a description of the area within the prohibited area where
consumption and possession is permitted. Failure to display this description
constitutes a violation of this code by the licensee.
   (B)   Abridgement of public rights. Nothing in this code shall be construed
in such a manner as to abridge the rights of private parties to consume
alcoholic beverages on their own premises or on private property with the
property owner’s permission.
(1987 Code, § 406.16) (Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.29 ADDITIONAL GENERAL CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Responsibility for conduct in establishment. Every person licensed
under this chapter is responsible for the conduct in the licensed
establishment, and any sale of alcoholic beverages by any employee authorized
to sell alcoholic beverages in the establishment is the act of the licensee for
the purposes of all sections of this chapter and M.S. Ch. 340A, except as
otherwise provided by M.S. Ch. 340A.
   (B)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer or any
designated official of the city to enter, inspect, and search the premises of
the licensee; during business hours, for any reason related to conditions of
said licensee; and after the hours of sale, in the event the officer or
official has reasonable and probable cause to believe that persons other than
the owner or management and janitorial personnel are present in the licensed
premises during the hours prohibited by the subsequent subdivision. A properly
designated officer or employee of the city may inspect the business records of
the licensee, including federal and state tax returns, at all reasonable times.
   (C)   Food service after hours. Licensees shall be allowed to serve food and
non-alcoholic beverages in areas otherwise included on the liquor license as
part of the licensed premises, provided such area is approved by the City
Council and designated on the liquor license. Such area must be completely free
of any alcoholic beverages, either opened or unopened, during all times after
legal hours for sale of such alcoholic beverages. Also, such area must be
reasonably separated from the area in which alcoholic beverages are typically
sold on the licensed premises. Licensees shall be allowed to use any portion of
the licensed premises for service of food for Sunday brunches between the hours
of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
   (D)   Nudity prohibited. No licensee shall permit the following kinds of
conduct on the licensed premises, or in areas adjoining the licensed premises
where the following kinds of conduct can be seen by patrons of the licensed
premises:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, flagellation, or bondage; or
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breast, buttocks, anus, or genitals; or
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the public hair or a pubic
region, anus, vulva, or genitals; or
      (4)   The displaying of films depicting any of the acts described in this
division; or
      (5)   The presentation of any female in such manner or attire to expose
to view any portion of the breast below the top of the areola, or any
simulation thereof; or
      (6)   The presentation of any male genitals in a discernibly turgid
state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   (E)   Conditions. All licenses granted under this chapter shall be issued
subject to the conditions set forth in this chapter and subject to all city
ordinances and sections of this Code applicable thereto and the laws of the
state.
(Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.30 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION, NO INSURANCE.
   (A)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility, including but not
limited to dram shop insurance or withdrawal of a required deposit of cash or
securities, shall affect an immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant
to this chapter without further action of the City Council. Notice of
cancellation, lapse of a current liability policy, or withdrawal of deposited
cash or securities shall also constitute notice to the licensee of the
impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has received
notice of lapse of required insurance, or withdrawal of a required deposit, or
of suspension or revocation of a license, may request a hearing thereon and if
such a request is made in writing to the City Administrator, a hearing shall be
granted within 10 days or such longer period as may be requested. Any
suspension under this division shall continue until the City Council determines
that the financial responsibility requirements of this chapter have again been
met. The provisions of §§
113.24,
113.32, and
113.99 pertaining to civil administrative penalties and prosecution may be
imposed in addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this
chapter.
   (B)   Lapse of required dram shop insurance or withdrawal of a required
deposit of cash or securities, shall effect an immediate suspension of any
license issued pursuant to this chapter without further action of the City
Council. Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liability policy, or
withdrawal of deposited cash or securities shall also constitute notice to the
licensee of the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license
who has received notice of lapse of required insurance, or withdrawal of a
required deposit, or of suspension or revocation of a license, may request a
hearing thereon and if such a request is made in writing to the Clerk, a
hearing shall be granted within 10 days or such longer period as may be
requested. Any suspension under this division shall continue until the City
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of this
chapter have again been met.
(Am. Ord. 499, passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.31 EXCEPTION FOR GOLF COURSE; SALE ON SUNDAYS.
   (A)   Authorization by city ordinance.  Section
113.02 allows a restaurant, club or hotel with a seating capacity of at least
30 persons and which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license and Sunday
on-sale liquor license to sell intoxicating liquor for consumption on their
premises in conjunction with the sale of food between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 12:00 a.m. on Sundays upon holding a public hearing.
   (B)   Public hearing. A public hearing was held on August 12, 1997 to review
the petition submitted by St. Charles Golf Course to sell intoxicating liquor
on Sundays between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m.
   (C)   Findings of fact. The City Council finds that the sale of intoxicating
liquor at the St. Charles Golf Course between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:00
a.m. on Sunday will not be injurious to the public health, safety, morals and
general welfare of the residents of the city and hereby permits the St. Charles
Golf Course to sell intoxicating liquor between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 12:
00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 427, passed 8-28-1997; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.32 GUIDELINES; PENALTIES.
   (A)   At the City Council meeting Tuesday night, the Council adopted the
following guidelines for handling future liquor license violations. The Council
stressed that these are guidelines only, not a set policy. However, the
intention of the Council is to use the following guidelines.
 
Violation Off-Sale Penalty     On-Sale Penalty
                               1 to 4 Violators     5 to 10 Violators      11 to 19 Violators     20 or More Violators
First     $150 and classes     $150 and classes     $250 plus 3-days’    $500 plus 5-days’    $1,000 plus 10-days’
                                                    suspension             suspension             suspension
Second    $300 plus 3-days’  $300 plus 3-days’  $500 plus 5-days’    $1,000 plus 10-days’ $1,500 plus 30-days’
          suspension           suspension           suspension             suspension             suspension
Third     $500 plus 10-days’ $500 plus 10-days’ $1,000 plus 30-days’ License revoked        -
          suspension           suspension           suspension
Five business days to pay fines; Three-year sliding window.
Policy Violation = Increased Checks by Police
 
   (B)   For on-sale licensees, the number of violators involved in each
incident will have an impact on the penalty. The term VIOLATOR refers to the
number of minors ticketed or sent in as part of a compliance check by the
police; it will also include the number of persons on the premises after hours
or consuming alcohol after hours.
   (C)   The schedule is now in effect. If you have any questions, please
contact me at 932-3020.
(Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. In addition to any penalties contained in this chapter listed
above, violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(1987 Code, § 406.17)
   (B)   Criminal penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter
for which a specific penalty is not provided is guilty of a misdemeanor, and
upon conviction, may also in addition to any civil penalty be punishable by a
fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or
both, plus the cost of prosecution in any case.
(Am. Ord. 99, passed 8-1-2006; Am. Ord. 592, passed 5-23-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: PUBLIC DANCES
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Proprietors must obtain permits
   
114.03   Permit applications
   
114.04   Fees for permits
   
114.05   Hours
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANCE HALL. Any room, place or space open to public patronage in which
dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to which
admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of an
admission fee or price for dancing.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, or a fee for
a membership in a club, and shall include any manner of holding a dance which
may be participated in by the public through the payment of money, directly or
indirectly.
(1987 Code, § 407.01)
§ 114.02 PROPRIETORS MUST OBTAIN PERMITS.
   A person shall not give, hold or conduct a public dance within the city
unless the owner or proprietor of the public dancing place, or the person
giving the same or in charge thereof, shall first procure a permit from the
City Administrator to hold, give and conduct the public dance pursuant to M.S.
§ 624.47, as it may be amended from time to time.
(1987 Code, § 407.02)
§ 114.03 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Every application for a permit to conduct a public dance shall be made to
the City Administrator on a form supplied by the city and containing
information as the City Administrator may require pursuant to M.S. § 624.45, as
it may be amended from time to time. It shall be unlawful to make any false
statement in an application.
(1987 Code, § 407.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 FEES FOR PERMITS.
   (A)   Payment required. Each permit application shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the Treasurer for full payment of the required license fee. All
fees shall be paid into the city's general fund. Upon rejection of any permit
application, the Treasurer shall refund the fee paid.
   (B)   Fees. The annual fee for a permit is $400. The fee for a temporary
permit is $5 per dance.
(1987 Code, § 407.04)
§ 114.05 HOURS.
   Dance halls or public dancing places shall not be open between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. of any day. No person other than an employee of the
licensee or the licensee shall remain on the dance hall premises during closed
hours.
(1987 Code, § 407.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: CANNABIS AND HEMP RETAIL BUSINESSES AND TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS
Section
General Regulations
   
115.001   State law adopted
   
115.002   Definitions
   
115.003   Conditions
   
115.004   Violations
   
115.005   Defenses
   
115.006   Enforcement
   
115.007   Minimum employee age
   
115.008   Use in public places
   
115.009   Pre-license application response required
Cannabis Retail Business Registration
   
115.020   Registration required
   
115.021   Limitation of registrations
   
115.022   Application
   
115.023   State licensing; inspection prior to retail registration
   
115.024   Approval or denial of retail registration
   
115.025   Basis for denial
   
115.026   Fees
   
115.027   Prohibited acts
   
115.028   Moveable place of business
   
115.029   Annual compliance checks
   
115.030   Term
   
115.031   Renewal
   
115.032   Renewal application
   
115.033   Location change and transferability
   
115.034   Responsibility of registered cannabis retail business
   
115.035   Display of registration
   
115.036   Registration conditions
   
115.037   Zoning and land use
   
115.038   Hours of operation
   
115.039   Smoking in cannabis businesses prohibited
   
115.040   On-site consumption within cannabis microbusinesses
   
115.041   Advertising
   
115.042   Other conditions for registered cannabis retail businesses
   
115.043   City as cannabis retailer
Lower-Potency Hemp Edible Retailer Registration
   
115.060   Lower-potency hemp edibles sales permitted with valid registration
   
115.061   Registration, fees, and renewal
   
115.062   Term
   
115.063   Basis for denial
   
115.064   Responsibility of lower-potency hemp edible retailers
   
115.065   Zoning districts
   
115.066   Prohibited acts
   
115.067   Other conditions for registered lower-potency hemp edible retailers
   
115.068   On-site consumption
   
115.069   Compliance checks
   
115.070   Display of registration
   
115.071   Advertising
   
115.072   Storage of product
   
115.073   Edible cannabinoid products
Temporary Cannabis Events
   
115.090   Permit required
   
115.091   Event registration and application fee
   
115.092   Application
   
115.093   Locations permitted
   
115.094   Operating hours of events
   
115.095   On-site consumption
   
115.096   Basis for denial
 
   
115.999   Penalty
§ 115.001 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   Except as further restricted or regulated by this chapter, the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 342, relating to cannabis and hemp regulation and the corresponding
state rules with respect to the same are hereby adopted and made a part of this
chapter as if set out herein in full. In accordance with M.S. §§ 342.13 and
342.22, the city may impose further restrictions and regulations within city
limits. Whenever there is an inconsistency between the provisions of M.S. Ch.
342, as amended, and the provisions of this chapter, the more restrictive
provision shall govern, unless preempted by state law.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.002 DEFINITIONS.
   The words, terms and phrases contained in M.S. § 342.01 and the
corresponding promulgated state rules shall have the same meanings in this
chapter; said definitions, as the same may be amended from time to time, being
hereby incorporated herein by reference. Unless otherwise noted in this
chapter, the following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning:
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A cannabis retailer location and the retail
location(s) of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement,
microbusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, medical combination
businesses operating a retail location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible
retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services
to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER. A person or entity licensed or
authorized to acquire, possess, transfer, sell, dispense, or distribute lower-
potency hemp edible products and related supplies and products pursuant to M.S.
Ch. 342.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. The Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as "OCM" in this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under M.S. § 342.17.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
   REGISTERED RETAIL BUSINESS. Either a cannabis retail business or lower-
potency hemp edible retailer with a valid retail registration issued by the
city.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, subd. 23.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a state-
licensed cannabis retail business or lower-potency hemp edible retailer.
   SCHOOL. A public school as defined under M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under M.S. § 120A.24.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENT. A cannabis event lasting no more than 4 days,
organized by a holder of a cannabis event organizer license pursuant to M.S. §
342.39 and subject to the requirements of M.S. § 342.40.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.003 CONDITIONS.
   All retail registrations issued to cannabis retail businesses or lower-
potency hemp edible retailers under this chapter shall be issued subject to the
conditions set forth in this chapter and subject to all city ordinances and
sections of this code applicable thereto and the laws of the state. All other
regulations contained in state law and city code as applicable to an otherwise
licensed or registered retail business enterprise regarding operational
requirements and restrictions and prohibited acts and sales, shall not be
limited by virtue of issuance of a retail registration under this chapter and
shall be complied with as applicable to the otherwise registered cannabis
retail business to the same extent as if such business enterprise were not a
cannabis retail business. All such regulations applicable to an otherwise
licensed or registered retail business shall remain applicable to the
operations of the registered cannabis retail business during the term of a
registration issued under this chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.004 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Any person or registered retail business violating this
chapter may be issued, either personally or by mail, a notice of violation/
citation by the City Clerk in consultation with the City Administrator and
Chief of Police that sets forth the alleged violation, the penalties imposed
and timing for serving a suspension, and that informs the alleged violator of
the alleged violator's right to a hearing on the matter. The notice of
violation/citation shall provide notice that a hearing must be requested by the
alleged violator within 10 business days of the date of issuance of the notice
of violation/citation and that such hearing rights shall be waived by the
alleged violator and terminated if a hearing is not requested in writing by the
alleged violator and filed with the City Clerk within the 10-business-day
period. The notice of violation/citation shall provide information on how and
where a hearing may be requested, including a contact address and phone number
for the City Clerk.
   (B)   Right to hearing. If a person or registered retail business accused of
violating this chapter or the governing state law so requests in writing, filed
with the City Clerk, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which
shall be published and provided by the City Clerk to the accused violator.
Hearing requests must be made within 10 business days of the issuance of the
notice of violation/citation and delivered to the City Clerk or other
designated city officer. Failure to properly request a hearing within 10
business days of the issuance of the notice of violation/citation will
terminate the person's right to a hearing and constitute waiver of said right
to a hearing. The City Clerk or other designated city officer will set the time
and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place will be
mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least 10 calendar days prior to
the hearing.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall act as the hearing officer or
will designate a hearing officer. The hearing officer will be an impartial
employee of the city or an impartial person retained by the city to conduct the
hearing, if other than the City Council.
   (D)   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under this chapter, shall be
recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused violator
by in person or mail delivery as soon as practicable following the hearing date
or the date of any continuance, recess or postponement thereof. Likewise, if
the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, such findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to
the acquitted accused violator by in person or mail delivery as soon as
practicable.
   (E)   OCM notification of suspension. Following issuance of a notice of
violation which includes a suspension of the registration of a registered
retail business by the City Clerk pursuant to this chapter, the City Clerk
shall immediately notify the OCM and provide the OCM a copy of the notice of
suspension issued to the registered retail business. The notice of suspension
shall include a description of the grounds for such suspension. The city may
hold a hearing pursuant to this chapter if timely requested by the alleged
violator or stay such hearing pending a response from OCM. If a hearing is
timely requested and held and a suspension is imposed, the City Clerk shall
additionally immediately notify the OCM and provide the OCM a copy of the
hearing officer's order of suspension issued to the registered retail business.
A suspension shall not be imposed and served until notice to OCM and any
determination by OCM has been made. The OCM may order reinstatement of the
retail registration or take other action authorized by law, up to and including
revocation of the state license for the cannabis retail business or lower-
potency hemp edible retailer. Failure by OCM to respond or to timely respond
following notice from the City Clerk to OCM as provided herein shall not
prohibit or limit the city's enforcement action or subsequent enforcement
actions.
   (F)   Timing of suspension. A suspension imposed following notice to OCM and
a determination by OCM shall be served by the registered retail business on
such date(s) as determined by the City Clerk in consultation with the City
Administrator and Chief of Police, and included in a subsequent written notice
from the City Clerk to the registered retail business. The notice and ordered
date(s) of suspension shall be consecutive days and shall be served by the
registered retail business within 60 days following the final determination of
suspension by OCM or as otherwise provided herein if OCM fails to respond
following notice.
   (G)   Reinstatement. The city may reinstate a retail registration if it
determines that the violation(s) has been resolved. The city shall reinstate a
registration if the OCM determines that the violation(s) has been resolved. The
city may wait for a determination from the OCM with regard to the violation(s)
before reinstating a registration issued by the city.
   (H)   Complaint to OCM. In addition to providing notification to the OCM of
any suspension of the registration of a registered retail business as set forth
above, the city shall submit to the OCM notification of any violation(s)
through the complaint process as set forth in M.S. § 342.13(g) and
corresponding state rules.
   (I)   Misdemeanor prosecution. In addition to the process contained in this
section for registration violations, violations of this chapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements herein shall constitute a criminal
misdemeanor offense and may be prosecuted accordingly.
   (J)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute separate offenses.
   (K)   Hearing expenses. If the notice of violation/citation is upheld by the
hearing officer, the city's actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a
maximum of $500 shall be paid by the person requesting the hearing and shall be
in addition to any penalties imposed. In such event, hearing expenses shall be
included as part of the hearing officer's findings and paid at the same time
the penalty is paid.
   (L)   Timely payment. In the event that any imposed penalty or hearing costs
and expenses are not timely paid in accordance with the notice of violation/
citation or the hearing officer's decision, as applicable, such failure shall
serve as grounds for additional enforcement actions, up to and including but
not limited to immediate retail registration suspension as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.005 DEFENSES.
   It shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a
person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law in
M.S. § 342.27, subd. 4.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.006 ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 342.22, subd. 5, if the city determines that a registered
retail business is not operating in compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, including but not limited to §§
115.027, 115.066, and/or the governing state statutes and rules, or that the
operation of the business poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the public, the city may impose penalties and/or suspend the retail
registration of the cannabis retail business pursuant to §§
115.004 and
115.999(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.007 MINIMUM EMPLOYEE AGE.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 342.24, subd. 1(a), cannabis businesses may not employ an
individual under 21 years of age and may not contract with an individual under
21 years of age if the individual's scope of work involves the handling of
cannabis plants, cannabis flower, artificially derived cannabinoids, or
cannabinoid products.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.008 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption.
   (B)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding division (A), consumption and possession
of lower- potency hemp edibles shall be allowed within the boundaries of the
following public parks during hours the parks are open for public use:
      (1)   Brookwood Park;
      (2)   City Park;
      (3)   Jessens Park;
      (4)   Kieffer Park;
      (5)   Meadow View Park;
      (6)   Oakview Park;
      (7)   Whispering Hills Park;
      (8)   The portion of Sportsman’s Park within city limits; and
      (9)   City Hall Park.
   (C)   Park boundaries. For the purpose of this section, the park area
extends only to the beginning edge of any street fit for vehicular travel,
parking lot serving the public park, privately owned property line bordering
the public park, or any sign erected by the city that states either, "Alcohol
Permitted in Park Area Only" or "No Alcohol Beyond This Point." For the
purposes of this section streets, alleys, or any other right-of-way or paved
boundary surrounding the edge of the park other than sidewalks shall not be
considered land within park boundaries.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.009 PRE-LICENSE APPLICATION RESPONSE REQUIRED.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 342.13, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a state
license application from OCM, the city shall certify on a form provided by OCM
whether any proposed cannabis business as defined under M.S. § 342.01,
including any cannabis retail business and lower-potency hemp edible retailer
required to register with the city, complies with the city's zoning code, the
State Fire Code and Building Code, and the provisions of this chapter, if
applicable to the state license application.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS REGISTRATION
§ 115.020 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person or entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business
within the corporate limits of the city without first registering with the
city. Any operation of a state-licensed cannabis business within the corporate
limits of the city without valid retail registration shall be a violation of
this chapter and the business shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §§
115.004 and
115.999(A).
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.021 LIMITATION OF REGISTRATIONS.
   The city shall limit the number of cannabis retail businesses to no fewer
than 1 registration for every 12,500 residents within the city. Under M.S. §
342.13(h), the city may limit the number of active cannabis retail businesses
registrations if the city has 1 active cannabis retail businesses registration
for every 12,500 residents. Pursuant to this authority, the city shall limit
the number of cannabis retail businesses to 3, excluding any potential
municipal cannabis retail business. If the premises of a cannabis retail
business is sold or otherwise transferred to another state-licensed cannabis
retail business for continued use as a cannabis retail business, the new
cannabis retail business shall have priority over other cannabis retail
businesses seeking a retail registration from the city, subject to all the
requirements of this chapter. If the city has 1 active cannabis retail business
registration for every 12,500 residents, the city shall not be required to
register additional state-licensed cannabis retail businesses. If there is 1
active cannabis retail business registration for every 12,500 residents in the
applicable county, the city shall not be required to register additional state-
licensed cannabis retail businesses.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.022 APPLICATION.
   The city shall issue a retail registration to a state-licensed cannabis
retail business that adheres to the requirements of M.S. § 342.22, this
chapter, the zoning code, and the State Fire Code and Building Code, as
applicable.
   (A)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an application
form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
      (2)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or any other type of business
organization, the application shall also contain the names, addresses and
respective percentage ownership interest of all of the owners of the
corporation or business organization, provided however that if the number of
owners exceeds 10 persons only the 10 owners having the largest percentage of
ownership shall be listed;
      (4)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
      (5)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements of
this chapter, the zoning code, and with the State Fire Code and Building Code;
      (6)   Certification that the applicant has a valid license or license
pre-approval issued by the OCM; and
      (7)   Any other information the city deems necessary.
   (B)   The applicant shall include with the form:
      (1)   The application fee as required in §
115.026; and
      (2)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
pre-approval.
   (C)   Once an application is considered complete by the City Administrator,
the City Administrator or their designee shall inform the applicant as such,
process the application fees, and forward the application to the City Council
for approval or denial.
   (D)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.023 STATE LICENSING; INSPECTION PRIOR TO RETAIL REGISTRATION.
   Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail business registration, the city shall
conduct a preliminary inspection to ensure compliance with the requirements of
this chapter and all city ordinances.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.024 APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF RETAIL REGISTRATION.
   The City Administrator shall issue a retail registration to a cannabis
retail business that has complied with §
115.022 and has passed the preliminary inspection required under §
115.023. A state- licensed cannabis retail business registration application
shall not be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the
requirements of this chapter. If the registration is denied, notice of the
denial shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's
right to appeal such denial to the City Council. Notice shall also be provided
to OCM by the City Clerk in the same manner as provided in §
115.004(E).
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.025 BASIS FOR DENIAL.
   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance of retail
registration or a renewal required under this chapter:
   (A)   The cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under §
115.021. The city shall process cannabis retail registration applications in
the order in which the applications are received until the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses has been met.
   (B)   The applicant does not have a valid license or license pre-approval
issued by the OCM.
   (C)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides inaccurate, false or misleading information.
   (D)   The fee for the registration or registration renewal has not been
paid.
   (E)   The applicant's cannabis retail business does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter, the zoning code, and with the State Fire Code and
Building Code.
   (F)   The applicant's cannabis retail business operates in violation of any
section of M.S. Ch. 342.
   (G)   The applicant's cannabis retail business made any sales with the city
prior to issuance of a valid retail registration by the city pursuant to this
chapter.
   (H)   The applicant has otherwise failed a compliance check completed by the
city.
   (I)   No registration shall be granted or renewed for operation of a
cannabis retail business on any premises on which taxes or assessments or other
financial claims of the city or of the state are due, delinquent and unpaid.
The City Council may, upon request by the applicant or licensee, waive strict
compliance with this provision if the applicant or licensee has contested their
tax liabilities or other financial claims through a process permitted by
federal or state regulations or by city ordinance; or is working out debt
problems under the supervision of a bankruptcy court or pursuant to some other
formal agreement. No waiver may be granted, however, if taxes or any portion
thereof, remain unpaid for a period exceeding 1 year after becoming due.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.026 FEES.
   (A)   Registration fee. A registration fee shall be charged to applicants
depending on the type of retail business state license applied for by the
applicant. The initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less. The initial registration fee shall include the initial retail
registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
   (B)   Renewal registration fee. Any renewal retail registration fee imposed
by the city shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each
subsequent renewal thereafter. A renewal retail registration fee shall not
exceed $1,000 or half the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. §
342.11, whichever is less.
   (C)   Medical cannabis combination business. A medical combination business
operating a cannabis retail business location at which it sells cannabis
flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer
products, and other products authorized by law to other cannabis businesses and
to customers may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
cannabis retail business.
   (D)   Fees generally. Subject to the foregoing and applicable law, fees
under this chapter shall be in the amount(s) duly established by ordinance or
resolution of the City Council from time to time. The registration fees in this
section shall not be prorated for registrations issued for less than a full
year.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.027 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or cannabis retail
business regulated under this chapter to violate any provisions of M.S. Ch. 342
applicable to cannabis retail businesses, including, but not limited to the
following:
   (A)   To operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business within the
corporate limits of the city or make any sale to a customer or patient without
validly registering with the city.
   (B)   To sell cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products to a person who is visibly
intoxicated.
   (C)   To knowingly sell more cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products than a customer is
legally permitted to possess.
   (D)   To give away immature cannabis plants or seedlings, cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   (E)   To operate a drive-through window.
   (F)   To allow for the dispensing of cannabis plants, cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products in vending machines.
   (G)   To sell cannabis plants, cannabis flower, or cannabis products if the
cannabis retailer knows that any required security or statewide monitoring
systems are not operational.
   (H)   To permit an individual under 21 years of age to enter the business
premises other than entry by a person enrolled in the registry program as
defined by M.S. § 342.01, subd. 59.
   (I)   To sell or give cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products to an individual under 21 years of
age unless the individual is a person enrolled in the registry program as
defined by M.S. § 342.01, subd. 59 and the cannabis business holds a medical
cannabis retail endorsement. Registered cannabis retail businesses must verify
by means of proof of age as described by state law in M.S. § 342.24, subd. 4
that the purchaser is at least 21 years of age.
   (J)   To sell or give cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products by any other means, to any other
person, or in any other manner or form prohibited by federal, state, or other
local law, ordinance, or other regulation.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.028 MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   No retail registration required under this chapter shall be issued to a
moveable place of business. Only fixed-location cannabis retail businesses
shall be eligible to be registered under this chapter.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.029 ANNUAL COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   Annual compliance checks. The city shall complete at minimum 1
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis retail business with a
valid retail registration to assess the business's compliance with age
verification requirements in applicable law as well as compliance with this
chapter, the zoning code, the State Fire Code and Building Code, and all other
applicable city ordinances.
   (B)   Unannounced age verification compliance checks. Age verification
compliance checks shall involve persons at least 17 years of age but under the
age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a parent or guardian if the
person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under
the direct supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the city.
   (C)   Compliance check failures. Any failures under this section shall be
reported to the Office of Cannabis Management and constitute a violation of §
115.027 of this code.
   (D)   Other compliance checks. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
compliance checks authorized by state or federal laws for educational,
research, or training purposes or required for the enforcement of a particular
state or federal law.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.030 TERM.
   All registrations issued under this chapter must be renewed annually at the
same time OCM renews the cannabis retail business's state license. In the event
that OCM does not renew the license for any cannabis retail business subject to
this chapter, the retail registration for that cannabis retail business shall
terminate automatically without further action from the city.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.031 RENEWAL.
   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply annually to renew
registration on a form established by the city pursuant to §
115.032. The applicant shall provide notice to the City Administrator of its
intent to renew its state license and retail registration at least 30 days
prior to submitting an application for a license renewal to the OCM and shall
timely submit a renewal application to the City Administrator when the OCM
renews the cannabis retail business's state license. A cannabis retail
registration issued under this chapter shall not be transferred.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.032 RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for renewal of a retail registration shall include,
but is not limited to: Items required under §
115.022 of this chapter.
   (B)   The renewal application shall not be deemed complete until the city
has received the renewal fee required under §
115.026.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.033 LOCATION CHANGE AND TRANSFERABILITY.
   Every cannabis retail business registration issued under this chapter shall
be valid only on the premises for which the registration was issued and only
for the person to whom the registration was issued. No transfer of any
registration to another location or person shall be valid. A state-licensed
cannabis retail business shall be required to submit a new application for
registration under §
115.022 if it seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries
of the city. Relocating a cannabis retail business, which is validly registered
with the city pursuant to this chapter, within the legal boundaries of the city
shall not result in the loss of the opportunity to seek a new retail
registration, regardless of the limitation established under §
115.021. A cannabis retail business validly registered with the city seeking a
new retail registration only as a result of relocating within the city shall
have priority over any cannabis retail business seeking to register a new
cannabis retail business in the city. Retail registration fees shall not be
prorated.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.034 RESPONSIBILITY OF REGISTERED CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS.
   Every person issued a retail registration under this chapter shall be
responsible for the actions of the registrant's employees in regard to the
operation of the state-licensed cannabis retail business, and the sale of such
items by an employee shall be considered a sale by the retail registration
holder. Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from
also subjecting the registered cannabis retail business's employee(s) to
whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or
other applicable law or regulation for violations thereof.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.035 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION.
   Each retail registration issued under this chapter shall be posted/displayed
in a conspicuous place in plain view of the general public on the premises of
the cannabis retail business for which it is issued.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.036 REGISTRATION CONDITIONS.
   Each retail registration issued under this chapter is subject to all of the
following conditions:
   (A)   The cannabis retail business must fully light the interior of the
retail establishment during business hours.
   (B)   The cannabis retail business must fully cooperate with representatives
from the city when present at the retail establishment for city business
purposes.
   (C)   The cannabis retail business must maintain clean and clear front and
rear entrances of the retail establishment.
   (D)   The cannabis retail business must utilize security cameras in good
working order pursuant to M.S. § 342.27, subds. 9 and 10.
   (E)   The cannabis retail business must promptly remove any graffiti on the
exterior of the retail establishment.
   (F)   Individuals employed by a registered cannabis retail business must be
at least 21 years of age.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.037 ZONING AND LAND USE.
   Cannabis retail. Cannabis retail businesses are permitted in the following
zoning districts:
   (A)   Central Business District;
   (B)   Service Commercial District; and
   (C)   Regional Commercial/Industrial District.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.038 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Cannabis retail businesses may not sell cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday nor
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday pursuant to M.S. §
342.27.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.039 SMOKING IN CANNABIS BUSINESSES PROHIBITED.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 144.417 and M.S. § 342.28, subd. 10, a cannabis retail
business with an on- site consumption endorsement may not permit cannabis
flower, cannabis products, hemp-derived consumer products, or tobacco to be
consumed through smoking or a vaporized delivery method on the premises.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.040 ON-SITE CONSUMPTION WITHIN CANNABIS MICROBUSINESSES.
   (A)   Conditions. A cannabis microbusiness with an on-site consumption
endorsement may permit on-site consumption of edible cannabis products and
lower-potency hemp edibles if:
      (1)   Premises. The portion of the premises in which on-site consumption
is permitted must be definite and distinct from all other areas of the
microbusiness and must be accessed through a distinct entrance.
      (2)   Products. The edible cannabis products and lower-potency hemp
edibles sold for on-site consumption comply with M.S. Ch. 342 and rules adopted
pursuant to that chapter regarding the testing, packaging, and labeling of
cannabinoid products.
      (3)   Packaging. The edible cannabinoid products and lower-potency hemp
edibles sold for on-site consumption are served in the required packaging but
may be removed from the products' packaging by customers for consumption on-
site.
      (4)   Food and drink. Food and beverages may be prepared and sold on-site
provided that the cannabis microbusiness complies with all relevant state and
local laws, this code, licensing requirements, and zoning requirements.
      (5)   Display. The display and consumption of any edible cannabis product
or lower- potency hemp edible is not visible from outside of the licensed
premises of the business.
      (6)   Entertainment. The cannabis microbusiness may offer recorded or
live entertainment, provided that the cannabis microbusiness complies with all
relevant state and local laws, ordinances, licensing requirements, and zoning
requirements.
   (B)   Prohibited acts for on-site consumption. A cannabis microbusiness with
an on-site consumption endorsement may not:
      (1)   Sell an edible cannabis product or a lower-potency hemp edible to
an individual who is under 21 years of age.
      (2)   Permit an individual who is under 21 years of age to enter the
premises.
      (3)   Sell an edible cannabis product or a lower-potency hemp edible to a
person who is visibly intoxicated.
      (4)   Sell or allow the sale or consumption of alcohol or tobacco on the
premises.
      (5)   Sell products that are intended to be eaten or consumed as a drink,
other than packaged and labeled edible cannabis products and lower-potency hemp
edibles, that contain cannabis flower or hemp plant parts or are infused with
cannabis concentrate, hemp concentrate, or artificially derived cannabinoids.
      (6)   Permit edible cannabis products or lower-potency hemp edibles sold
in the portion of the area designated for on-site consumption to be removed
from that area.
      (7)   Permit cannabis flower, cannabis products, hemp-derived consumer
products, or tobacco to be consumed through smoking or a vaporized delivery
method on the premises.
      (8)   Distribute or allow free samples of cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower- potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.041 ADVERTISING.
   Cannabis retail businesses are permitted to erect up to 2 fixed signs on the
exterior of the building or property of the business subject to compliance and
any other limits in the city code including the city's sign ordinance.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.042 OTHER CONDITIONS FOR REGISTERED CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES.
   In addition to the registration conditions required in §
115.036, each retail registration issued under this chapter for a cannabis
retail business is subject to all of the following conditions:
   (A)   The registered cannabis retail business must post signs in visible
locations that prohibit loitering inside or near the front entrance of the
retail establishment.
   (B)   The sales counter, store entrance, and interior of the retail
establishment shall be visually recorded with a videotape or similar device at
a quality level that allows the visual identification of patrons and employees.
The recordings shall be maintained and made available to the police for 15 days
before being reused, erased or otherwise deleted.
   (C)   The registered cannabis retail business must have the following
notices posted:
      (1)   A sign at front entrance of the retail establishment that prohibits
persons under the age of 21 from entering the retail establishment;
      (2)   A statement that operating a motor vehicle under the influence of
intoxicating cannabinoids is illegal;
      (3)   A statement that cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products are only intended for
consumption by individuals who are at least 21 years of age; and
      (4)   Information about any product recall.
   (D)   The front windows of the retail establishment must be clear, untinted,
and unobstructed.
   (E)   Each day of business, the cannabis retail business must inspect the
parking lot and entrances of the retail establishment for litter and properly
dispose of such litter.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.043 CITY AS CANNABIS RETAILER.
   (A)   The city may establish, own, and operate 1 municipal cannabis retail
business subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
   (B)   The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any
limitation of the number of registered cannabis retail businesses under §
115.021.
   (C)   The city shall be subject to all of the same retail registration
requirements and procedures applicable to all other applicants.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILER REGISTRATION
§ 115.060 LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES SALES PERMITTED WITH VALID REGISTRATION.
   The sale of lower-potency hemp edibles is permitted by lower-potency hemp
edible retailers, subject to compliance with the retail registration
requirements in this chapter and the specific terms of this chapter applicable
to lower-potency hemp edible retailers as set forth in §§
115.060 through
115.073.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.061 REGISTRATION, FEES, AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Initial application. The procedures for and content of an application
for a retail registration for a lower-potency hemp edible retailer shall be as
provided in §
115.022 of this code.
   (B)   Fees. Registration fees shall be as provided in §
115.026 of this code.
   (C)   Renewal application. The procedures for and content of a renewal
application for a retail registration a lower-potency hemp edible retailer
shall be as provided in §
115.032 of this code.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.062 TERM.
   All registrations issued under this chapter must be renewed annually at the
same time OCM renews the lower-potency hemp edible retailer license. In the
event that OCM does not renew the license for any lower-potency hemp edible
retailer subject to this chapter, the retail registration for the lower-potency
hemp edible retailer shall terminate automatically without further action from
the city.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.063 BASIS FOR DENIAL.
   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance of retail
registration or a renewal required under this chapter:
   (A)   The applicant does not have a valid license issued by the OCM.
   (B)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides inaccurate, false or misleading information.
   (C)   The fee for the registration or registration renewal has not been
paid.
   (D)   The applicant's lower-potency hemp edible retail business does not
comply with the requirements of this chapter, the zoning code, and with the
State Fire Code and Building Code.
   (E)   The applicant's lower-potency hemp edible retail business operates in
violation of any section of M.S. Ch. 342.
   (F)   The applicant has otherwise failed the compliance check completed by
the city.
   (G)   No registration shall be granted or renewed for the operation of a
lower-potency hemp edible retailer on any premises on which taxes or
assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are due,
delinquent and unpaid. The City Council may, upon request by the applicant or
licensee, waive strict compliance with this provision if the applicant or
licensee has contested their tax liabilities or other financial claims through
a process permitted by federal or state regulations or by city ordinance; or is
working out debt problems under the supervision of a bankruptcy court or
pursuant to some other formal agreement. No waiver may be granted, however, if
taxes or any portion thereof, remain unpaid for a period exceeding 1 year after
becoming due.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.064 RESPONSIBILITY OF LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILERS.
   Every person issued a lower-potency hemp edible retail registration under
this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of the registrant's employees
in regard to the sale of lower-potency hemp edibles, and the sale of such an
item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the registration holder.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also
subjecting the registered retail business's employee(s) to whatever penalties
are appropriate under this chapter, state or federal law, or other applicable
law or regulation for violation thereof.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.065 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   Lower-potency hemp edibles retailers are permitted in the following zoning
districts:
   (A)   Central Business District;
   (B)   Service Commercial District; and
   (C)   Regional Commercial/Industrial District.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.066 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or lower-potency hemp
edible retailer regulated under this chapter to violate any provisions of M.S.
Ch. 342 applicable to hemp businesses, including, but not limited to the
following:
   (A)   To operate a state-licensed lower-potency hemp edible retail business
within the corporate limits of the city or make any sale to a customer or
patient without validly registering with the city.
   (B)   To knowingly sell more lower-potency hemp edibles or hemp-derived
consumer products than a customer is legally permitted to possess.
   (C)   To sell lower-potency hemp edibles to individuals who are under 21
years of age. Lower-potency hemp edible retailers must verify by means of proof
of age as described by state law in M.S. § 342.24, subd. 4 that the purchaser
is at least 21 years of age.
   (D)   To sell lower-potency hemp edibles to a person who is visibly
intoxicated.
   (E)   To sell cannabis flower, cannabis products, or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   (F)   To allow for the dispensing of lower-potency hemp edibles in vending
machines.
   (G)   To distribute or allow free samples of lower-potency hemp edibles,
except when the business is licensed by the OCM to permit on-site consumption
and samples are consumed within its licensed premises.
   (H)   To sell or give cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products by any other means, to any other
person, or in any other manner or form prohibited by federal, state, or other
local law, ordinance, or other regulation.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.067 OTHER CONDITIONS FOR REGISTERED LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAILERS.
   Notices. Lower-potency hemp edible retailers must have the following notices
posted:
   (A)   A statement that operating a motor vehicle under the influence of
intoxicating cannabinoids is illegal;
   (B)   A statement that cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products are only intended for
consumption by individuals who are at least 21 years of age; and
   (C)   Information about any product recall.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.068 ON-SITE CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Conditions. A lower-potency hemp edible retailer may permit on-site
consumption of lower-potency hemp edibles if:
      (1)   The lower-potency hemp edible retailer has an on-site consumption
endorsement issued by the OCM.
      (2)   The lower-potency hemp edible retailer holds an on-sale license
issued under M.S. Ch. 340A.
      (3)   Lower-potency hemp edibles that are intended to be consumed as a
beverage are either served in their required packaging or outside of their
packaging if the information that is required to be contained on the label of a
lower-potency hemp edible is posted or otherwise displayed by the lower-potency
hemp edible retailer.
      (4)   Lower-potency hemp edibles sold for on-site consumption, other than
lower- potency hemp edibles that are intended to be consumed as a beverage, are
served in the required packaging. The lower-potency hemp edible products may be
removed from their packaging by customers and consumed on-site.
   (B)   Prohibited acts for on-site consumption. A lower-potency hemp edible
retailer with an on-site consumption endorsement may not:
      (1)   Sell, give, furnish, or in any way procure for another lower-
potency hemp edibles for the use of an obviously intoxicated person.
      (2)   Sell lower-potency hemp edibles that are designed or reasonably
expected to be mixed with an alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   Permit lower-potency hemp edibles that have been removed from the
products' packaging to be removed from the premises of the lower-potency hemp
edible retailer.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.069 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   Preliminary inspection. The procedure for state licensing and
preliminary inspection shall be as provided in §
115.023.
   (B)   Annual compliance checks. The procedure for each annual compliance
check shall be as provided in §
115.029.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.070 DISPLAY OF REGISTRATION.
   Each retail registration issued to a lower-potency hemp edible retailer
shall be posted/displayed in a conspicuous place in plain view of the general
public on the premises of the lower-potency hemp edible retailer for which it
is issued.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.071 ADVERTISING.
   Lower-potency hemp edible retailers are permitted to erect up to 2 fixed
signs on the exterior of the building or property subject to compliance and any
other limits in the city code including the city's sign ordinance.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.072 STORAGE OF PRODUCT.
   Lower-potency hemp edibles, other than lower-potency hemp edibles that are
intended to be consumed as a beverage, must be displayed behind a checkout
counter where the public is not permitted or in a locked case. All lower-
potency hemp edibles that are not displayed must be stored in a secure area.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.073 EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS.
   Except as to any provision requiring retail registration, the requirements
related to the operation of lower-potency hemp edible retailers as set forth in
this chapter shall apply to any business registered with the state to sell
edible cannabinoid products pursuant to M.S. § 151.72, subd. 56. Upon
conversion of an edible cannabinoid product registration under M.S. § 151.72,
subd. 56 to a lower-potency hemp edible retailer license or the issuance of a
lower-potency hemp edible retailer license in any other manner, the lower-
potency hemp edible retailer license holder shall come into full compliance
with this chapter and retail registration requirements.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS
§ 115.090 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A temporary cannabis event permit is required to be issued and approved by
the city prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.091 EVENT REGISTRATION AND APPLICATION FEE.
   An event registration permit fee, shall be charged to applicants for
temporary cannabis events. Subject to applicable law, fees for temporary
cannabis events shall be in the amount(s) duly established by resolution of the
City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.092 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The city shall require an application for temporary cannabis event
permits. The application shall be submitted to the City Administrator. If the
City Administrator or their designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, the City Administrator shall return the application to the
applicant with a notice of deficiencies.
   (B)   An applicant for a temporary cannabis event permit shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. This form shall include, but is not
limited to the following contents:
      (1)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
      (2)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or any other type of business
organization, the application shall also contain the names, addresses and
respective percentage ownership interest of all of the owners of the
corporation or business organization, provided however that if the number of
owners exceeds 10 persons only the 10 owners having the largest percentage of
ownership shall be listed; and
      (4)   Any other information deemed necessary.
   (C)   The applicant shall include with the form:
      (1)   The application fee as required in §
115.091;
      (2)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application, submitted
pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, subd. 2; and
      (3)   A depiction of any premises for which the applicant seeks approval
from the city to designate as an area for on-site consumption of cannabis
flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer
products, or any combination thereof. The city reserves the right to deny any
application for on-site consumption at a temporary cannabis event with or
without denial of the application for the temporary cannabis event in its
entirety.
   (D)   Once an application is considered complete, the City Administrator
shall inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward
the application to City Council for approval or denial.
   (E)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.093 LOCATIONS PERMITTED.
   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held at locations within the
following zoning districts:
   (A)   Central Business District;
   (B)   Service Commercial District; and
   (C)   Regional Commercial/Industrial District.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.094 OPERATING HOURS OF EVENTS.
   Temporary cannabis events shall only be held between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. If a temporary cannabis event is held indoors, the event, if
approved by the city, may be permitted to operate until 2:00 a.m., provided the
cannabis event organizer complies with the city's noise regulations, including
§
94.01(F)(2).
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.095 ON-SITE CONSUMPTION.
   On-site consumption of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or any combination of those items
shall not be permitted at temporary cannabis events.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.096 BASIS FOR DENIAL.
   A request for a temporary cannabis event permit that does not meet the
requirements of this chapter shall be denied. The city shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 115.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Penalties generally. In addition to any other penalties that may
be imposed under this chapter, any registered retail business with a retail
registration from the city found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be subject to suspension in
accordance with the following schedule:
         (a)   First offense: $250.
         (b)   Second offense at the same registered retail business within a
24-month period: $500 and a registration suspension of at least 3 consecutive
days.
         (c)   Third offense at the same location within a 36-month period:
$2,000 and a retail registration suspension of 30 consecutive days.
         (d)   For the purposes of this section, "within a 24-month period"
means a period, 2 years in duration, which begins to toll on the date of the
occurrence of the first violation, and ends 2 years from the date of the first
violation.
         (e)   Notwithstanding the foregoing and the penalties contained in the
City Clerk's notice of violation/citation, the hearing officer, following
notice and a hearing as provided in §
115.004, may deviate from the administrative penalties provided above herein,
by increasing or decreasing such imposed penalties subject to statutory limits,
based upon the hearing officer's findings following consideration of the facts,
circumstances, history and evidence presented and such other factors and
evidence as the hearing officer deems relevant. A history of repeated
violations extending beyond the time periods stated herein may be considered by
the hearing officer to impose a longer suspension period or revocation or non-
renewal of a registration as provided in this chapter subject to OCM approval
or corresponding enforcement actions by the OCM.
      (2)   Civil penalty for registration violations. Subject to M.S. §
342.22, subd. 5(e), the city may impose a civil penalty, as specified in the
city's fee schedule, not to exceed $2,000, on any cannabis retail business or
lower-potency hemp edible retailer which makes any sale to a customer or
patient without a valid retail registration pursuant to this chapter or for any
other registration violation.
      (3)   Criminal penalty. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter
or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and
is punishable as defined by law. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this
chapter. Prosecution may precede, run consecutively with, or follow any
administrative civil enforcement action. Violations of this chapter can occur
regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated activity
listed in this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Every cannabis retail business registered pursuant to this
chapter will be subject to suspension or revocation of their registration, or
any other penalty as set forth in this chapter, or not renewed by the City
Council according to the procedures as provided in §§
115.004 and division (A), for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
         (b)   One or more of the bases for denial of a retail registration
under §
115.025 existing at the time the registration application was made or at any
time before the registration was completed.
         (c)   Other good cause related to violation of applicable ordinances,
law and/or rules by the business in selling or furnishing products regulated
under M.S. Ch. 342.
      (2)   Revocation of a retail registration shall be subject to OCM
approval or corresponding enforcement actions by the OCM.
   (C)   The procedures for violations of this chapter by lower-potency hemp
edible retailers and penalties shall be as provided in §
115.004 and division (A).
(Ord. 663, passed 11-12-2024)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Curfew
   
130.01   Loitering; persons under the age of eighteen
   
130.02   Responsibility of parents
   
130.03   Businesses, operators and the like; responsibility
   
130.04   Exceptions
Administrative Fines
   
130.15   Administrative fines
Social Host
   
130.20   Social host
Firearms
   
130.30   Prohibition of firearm use within city limits
Catalytic Converters
   
130.40   Catalytic converters
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CURFEW
§ 130.01 LOITERING; PERSONS UNDER THE AGE OF EIGHTEEN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. From 10:00 p.m. on the day prior to any day in which the
St. Charles Public Schools are in session until 6:00 a.m. of the following day,
and 11:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. on any other day.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting of
a state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not limited
to: a fire; a natural disaster or automobile accident; or any situation
requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      GUARDIAN. A person who, under court order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor, or a public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under 18 years of age.
      PARENT. A person who is a natural parent, adoptive parent or stepparent
of another person, or at least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor.
   (B)   Loitering prohibited.
      (1)   No person less than 18 years old shall be in, or upon the public
streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and
public buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, or vacant lots during
curfew hours; unless the person is accompanied by a parent, guardian or other
adult person having the care or custody of the person.
      (2)   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 452, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   No parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of a
person less than 18 years old shall permit that person to violate the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 452, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 BUSINESSES, OPERATORS AND THE LIKE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Certain operators liable. No person, firm or corporation operating or
in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment shall permit
any person less than 18 years old to enter or remain in that place during
curfew hours. This section shall not apply when the person is accompanied by
his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having the care or custody of
the person.
   (B)   Parent or guardian. Any parent, guardian or other adult person who
violates this chapter after being notified by the Police Department of his or
her child's violation of this chapter has committed a petty misdemeanor.
   (C)   Business establishments. Any person, firm or corporation operating or
in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment who violates
this chapter has committed a petty misdemeanor.
   (D)   Aggravated violation of code. Any person, firm, corporation, parent,
guardian or other person having care or custody of a person less than 18 years
old who violates this chapter more than 3 times within a 1-year period or has
permitted a violation of this chapter under circumstances that substantially
endanger the health, well-being and safety of a person less than 18 years old
or the person or property of any individual or of any public property shall be
deemed to have committed a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 452, passed 11-14-2000) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   It is a defense to prosecution under §
130.01(B) if the minor was:
   (A)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home from
an employment activity, without any detour or atop;
   (B)   Involved in an emergency;
   (C)   Either:
      (1)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and/or sponsored by the City of St. Charles, the
St. Charles Public Schools, the Winona County Fair Board, a civic organization
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor; or
      (2)   Within 45 minutes after the termination of an official school,
religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and/or sponsored
by City of St. Charles, the St. Charles Public Schools, the Winona County Fair
Board, a civic organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility
for the minor, going to or returning home from the activity.
   (D)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop.
(Ord. 452, passed 11-14-2000)
ADMINISTRATIVE FINES
§ 130.15 ADMINISTRATIVE FINES.
   The following are administrative fines for various offenses.
Section Amount
Section                                            Amount
§                                                 $15
70.03 Parking
§                                                 $15
70.04 Removing keys
§                                                 $50
70.05 Exhibition driving
§                                                 $25
70.08 Snowmobile violations
§                                                 $10
70.09 Bicycle violations
§                                                 $25
70.10 Snow removal parking
§                                                 $10
70.11 Special vehicle use violations
§                                                 $25
70.12 Vehicular noise (Jake brakes, exhaust, etc.)
§                                                 $25
90.15 Public nuisances
§                                                 $25
90.19 Nuisance parking and storage
§                                                 $25
90.20 Abandoned/inoperable motor vehicles
§                                                 $50
90.60 Recreational fire violations
Ch. 92 Animals
§                                                 $50
92.004 Dogs running at large
§                                                 $25
92.006 Habitual barking dog(s)                     $15
Damaging property, urinating or defecating         $25
Fail to license
§                                                 $25
92.013 Interference with poundmaster
§                                                 $15
92.014 Tag offenses (fraudulent use, etc.)
§                                                 $25
92.015 Rabies vaccinations, tags, etc.
§                                                 $25
92.016 Dogs which have bitten (violations)
§ 92.023 Stray cats                               $50
 
SOCIAL HOST
§ 130.20 SOCIAL HOST.
   (A)   Purpose and findings.
      (1)   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and
consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to impose criminal penalties on those person(s) who host
events or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume
alcohol regardless of whether the person hosting or allowing the event or
gathering supplied the alcohol.
      (2)   The City Council finds that:
         (a)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health, safety, and
welfare requiring prevention or abatement.
         (b)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage
persons, as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol
consumption, such as alcohol overdoses or alcohol related traffic collisions.
         (c)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user.
         (d)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present, and condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol.
         (e)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person
is a crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help
further combat underage consumption.
         (f)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person
criminally responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage
possession or consumption of alcohol occurs.
   (B)    Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following terms have
the following meanings:
      ADULT. Any person 18 years of age or older.
      ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl or spirits of wine,
liqueur, cordials, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits
including dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever
process produced.
      ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine or beer and which contains 1/2 of 1%
or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either
alone or when diluted, mixed or combined with other substances.
      EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of 3 or more persons assembled or gathered
together for a social occasion or other activity.
      HOST or ALLOW. To aid, conduct, entertain, organize, supervise, control
or permit an event or gathering regardless of whether or not the host is
present.
      PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile as a natural
parent, adoptive parent, step parent, legal guardian, or a person to whom legal
custody has been given by order of the court.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of 1 or more individuals. A person does not include any city,
county or state agency.
      REASONABLE STEPS. Steps taken by a person hosting an event or gathering
in order to prevent underage possession or consumption of alcohol or alcoholic
beverages. Reasonable steps may include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Controlling access to alcohol and alcoholic beverages in such a
manner that no underage person has access to the alcohol or alcoholic beverages
at the gathering or event;
         (b)   Directly supervising the activities of underage persons at the
gathering or event either in person or through a responsible adult;
         (c)   Checking the identification of the attendees of the event or
gathering in order to determine age; and
         (d)   Other actions taken by a person hosting an event or gathering in
order to prevent underage possession or consumption of alcohol or alcoholic
beverages.
      RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any location, including a house, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, yard, field, land, park, or any other place of assembly, private or
public, whether occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as
a dwelling or residence or specifically for a social or business function, and
whether owned, leased, rented or used with or without permission or
compensation.
      UNDERAGE PERSON. Any person under 21 years of age.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to:
         (a)   Host or allow an event or gathering at any residence or
premises, or on any other public property or private property where alcohol or
alcoholic beverages are present; and
         (b)   When the person knows or reasonably should know that:
            1.   Alcohol or an alcoholic beverage is possessed with the intent
to consume or is being consumed by an underage person; and
            2.   The person failed to take reasonable steps to prevent such
possession or consumption by an underage person.
      (2)   It is a violation of division (C)(1) if any person intentionally
aids, advises, hires, counsels or conspires with another or otherwise procures
another to commit the prohibited act.
      (3)   A person who hosts or allows an event or gathering does not have to
be present at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible for a
violation of this section.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct of an underage person
specifically authorized by his or her parent while present in the parent's
household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licenses, municipal liquor stores or bottle club permit holders who
are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503.
      (4)   This section does not apply to law enforcement activities
supervised by a law enforcement agency.
      (5)   This section does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
      (6)   This section does not apply to a landlord, mortgagee, college,
university, hotel or motel owner, or operator who has not actually participated
in hosting or allowing an event or gathering where alcohol is present.
   (E)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any person with a
Minnesota Peace Officer’s License with jurisdiction in the city.
(Ord. 586, passed 1-26-2016)
FIREARMS
§ 130.30 PROHIBITION OF FIREARM USE WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Prohibition of firearm use.
      (1)   Prohibited acts.
         (a)   Generally. No person shall discharge a firearm, air rifle, air
gun, BB gun, slingshot, or other similar device capable of self-propelled
discharge within City of St. Charles City limits, except as provided in this
section. Any person in violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
         (b)   Definition. For purposes of this section, a FIREARM has the
meaning contained in M.S. § 97A.015, subdivision 19, as may be amended from
time to time.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   Lawful defense, law enforcement. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit the firing of a gun, pistol, revolver or other kind of
firearm when done in the lawful defense of person or family or in the necessary
enforcement of the laws by a law enforcement officer.
         (b)   Wildlife conservation. Wildlife conservation or animal control
officers or other authorized representatives of the city, county, state or
federal government, acting in an official capacity, may use a firearm or weapon
to restrain the free movement of any animal, wildlife or birds as is permitted
by law.
         (c)   Veterans organizations.  Members of authorized veterans and law
enforcement Honor Guards discharging a rifle volley with blanks as an honorary
salute.
         (d)   Firearm ranges.
            1.   The discharge of firearms shall also be permitted at any trap,
skeet or firing range in zoning districts allowing such a property use. This
exception applies only upon such days and at such times as the range is open
for shooting and when the manager of the range or his or her lawful agent is
present and supervising the shooting of firearms. All trap, skeet and firing
ranges shall have signs conspicuously placed on the premises stating the
substance of this division.
            2.   No person shall possess or consume nonintoxicating malt liquor
or intoxicating liquor at any trap, skeet or firing range located in the city.
         (e)   Permit. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit
the firing of a gun, pistol, revolver or other kind of firearm in situations
authorized by the City Code, and when permission therefor has first been given
by the Chief of Police, which permission shall designate the place where and
the time when such firearms may be used. Any resident of the city may obtain a
permit from the Chief of Police for shooting an air rifle, air gun, BB gun, or
other similar device for the shooting of vermin inside a dwelling, building or
structure on property within city limits.
      (3)   Authority. This division is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 412.221,
subdivision 32, § 410.33, and § 340A.509.
   (B)   Prohibition of bow and arrow use.
      (1)   Prohibited acts.
         (a)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used
in this section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this division,
unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
            ARROW. Any shaft, rod or bolt constructed out of any substance.
            BOW. Any device designed as or commonly known as a bow, long-bow,
compound-bow, or cross-bow and fashioned to propel, thrust or project an arrow,
shaft, bolt, or rod beyond 1 foot of the device itself.
         (b)   Shooting of bows and arrows prohibited. It is unlawful to shoot,
discharge or otherwise propel an arrow from a bow in the city except under the
conditions listed under division (B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Exemptions. Use of bows and arrows in the following circumstances
shall be exempted from the general prohibition thereof contained in division
(B)(1) of this section:
         (a)   Bows and arrows may be used as authorized in a physical
education program in a school when supervised by a member of its faculty;
         (b)   Bows and arrows may be used in a community-wide supervised class
or event as specifically authorized in advance by the Chief of Police; or
         (c)   Bows and arrows may be used in any bow and arrow range
specifically established and so designated by the City Council.
      (3)   Authority. This division is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 412.221,
subdivision 32 and § 410.33.
(Ord. 620, passed 4-14-2020)
CATALYTIC CONVERTERS
§ 130.40 CATALYTIC CONVERTERS.
   (A)   Sale of catalytic converters. No person or business may sell a used
catalytic converter that is not attached to a vehicle. This section does not
apply to a bona fide automobile repair garage or used auto parts dealer whose
license permits the installation, replacement, maintenance, or removal of
catalytic converters.
   (B)   Purchase of catalytic converters. No person or business may purchase a
used catalytic converter that is not attached to a vehicle unless the seller is
a licensed business whose license permits the installation, replacement,
maintenance, or removal of catalytic converters. The purchase of any catalytic
converter must meet the recording requirements laid out in M.S. § 325E.21,
subd. 1(b).
   (C)   Possession of catalytic converters. No person shall be in possession
of one or more catalytic converters that do not belong to a vehicle or vehicles
owned by the individual in possession of the catalytic converter(s), or that
the individual cannot provide verification of legal receipt of the catalytic
converter from the vehicle owner.
(Ord. 638, passed 6-28-2022)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of §
130.20 and §
130.40 is a misdemeanor. The court may order restitution paid to any public
agency for the costs of the emergency response resulting from the actions
constituting a violation of §
130.20, not exceeding $500 per public agency for each such response. A public
agency seeking such restitution shall consult with the prosecuting attorney
regarding the expenses incurred by the public agency, and the prosecuting
attorney shall include the expenses in the statement of restitution pursuant to
M.S. § 611A.04.
(Ord. 586, passed 1-26-2016; Am. Ord. 638, passed 6-28-2022)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
151.   BUILDING CODE
      
152.   ZONING
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
150.01   Procedure
§ 150.01 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Storage. All property other than motor vehicles lawfully coming into
the possession of the city shall be disposed of as provided in this section.
The city department acquiring possession of property shall arrange for its
storage. If city facilities for storage are unavailable or inadequate, the
department may arrange for storage at privately owned facilities.
   (B)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release to
the owner.
   (C)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Police Chief after 2-weeks’ published notice
setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property to be sold.
   (D)   Disposition of proceeds. The sale proceeds shall be placed in the
city’s general fund. If the former owner makes application and furnishes
satisfactory proof of ownership within 6 months of the sale, the former owner
shall be paid the proceeds from the sale of the former owner's property less
the costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice
and other costs of the sale.
(1987 Code, § 208.01)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
151.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
§ 151.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference.
      (1)   The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner
of Administration pursuant to M.S. Chapters 16B.59 to 16B.75, as they may be
amended from time to time, including all of the amendments, rules and
regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by the
Minnesota Commissioner of Administration, through the Building Codes and
Standards Division is hereby adopted by reference with exception of the
optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this section.
      (2)   The Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this
code as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, subdivision 1,
as it may be amended from time to time, when so established by this section.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of the City of St. Charles is the St.
Charles Planning and Zoning Committee.
      (3)   The code shall be enforced by the Minnesota Certified Building
Official designated by the City of St. Charles to administer the code (M.S. §
16B.65 subdivision 1), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the City of St. Charles. In
addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work
governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. The city may impose a voluntary
administrative penalty under §
10.90 rather than issuing a criminal summons.
   (E)   Building Code optional chapters. The Minnesota State Building Code,
established pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to 16B.75, as they may be amended from
time to time, allows the municipality to adopt by reference and enforce certain
optional chapters of the most current edition of the Minnesota State Building
Code.
(Ord. 468, passed 4-8-2003; Am. Ord. 515, passed 5-13-2008 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: ZONING
Section
Generally
   
152.01   Scope and interpretation
   
152.02   Definitions
Districts; Provisions
   
152.15   Districts
   
152.16   Agriculture Conservation District
   
152.17   One and Two-Family Residence and Single-Family Attached District
   
152.18   Modular and Mobile Home Residence District
   
152.19   Multiple-Family Residence District
   
152.19.5   Multiple-Family Apartment District
   
152.20   Mixed Use Residential
   
152.21   Planned Unit Development
   
152.22   Central Business District
   
152.23   Service Commercial District
   
152.24   Regional Commercial/Industrial District
   
152.25   Light Industry District
   
152.26   General Industry District
   
152.27   Adult uses
   
152.28   Zoning map
   
152.29   Home occupation
General Regulations
   
152.40   District provisions and dimensional requirements
   
152.41   Regulations; general
   
152.42   Nonconforming uses
   
152.43   Conditional use permits
   
152.44   The administrative official
   
152.45   Building and use permits
   
152.46   Variances
   
152.47   Amending the Zoning Code
   
152.48   Time deadline for city action
   
152.49   Violation; enforcement; penalty
   
152.50   Opt-Out of M.S. § 462.3593
Alternative Energy Systems
   
152.75   Alternative energy systems
   
152.76   Ground source heat pump systems
   
152.77   Wind energy systems
   
152.78   Solar energy systems
   
152.79   Prohibited characteristics of alternative energy systems
   
152.80   Permits for alternative energy systems
   
152.81   Conditional use permit
   
152.82   Interpretation
   
152.83   Conflict
 
   
Appendix A   Related material on file in City Administrator’s office
GENERALLY
§ 152.01 SCOPE AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Scope. The use of all land and every building and the erection or
structural alteration of any building or portion of a building in the city
shall conform with the provisions of this chapter. Any structure or use
lawfully existing on, but not conforming with, the appropriate zoning
regulations may be continued subject to §
152.42.
   (B)   Interpretation. The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted as
the minimum requirements for promotion of public health, safety, morals,
convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of this chapter impose
greater restrictions than those of any statute, other ordinance or regulation,
this chapter shall apply. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance
or regulation impose greater restrictions than this chapter, those restrictions
shall apply.
(1987 Code, § 701.01)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A subordinate building, structure or
use which is clearly incidental and customary to the main building, structure
or use on the same lot.
   ADULT USE/ACCESSORY. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental to the
primary activity and goods and/or services  offered by the establishment.
Examples of these items include adult magazines, adult movies, adult novelties
and the like.
   ADULT USE/PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services which are
classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or
establishment and include, but are not limited to, the following.
   ADULT USE BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides
the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
     ADULT USE BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape or motion picture film if the building or
portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to 1 or
more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age, or if a
substantial or significant portion of those items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age, or if the dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      ADULT USE COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR: A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by
reason of age, or if the club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE HOTEL/MOTEL. Adult hotel/motel means a hotel or motel from
which minors are specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of
massage, if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if the building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision to customers of figure models who are so provided with the intent of
providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to customers and who
engage in specified sexual activities or display, specified anatomical areas
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by customers.
      ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to 5 or fewer persons per machine at any 1 time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      ADULT USE MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if the
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT USE NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has, as a principal
activity, the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USES. Include adult bookstore, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/
bathhouse/sauna facilities, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/
conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty
businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/
motels, adult body painting businesses or places open to some or all members of
the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas which are capable of being seen by members of the public. Activities
classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended from
time to time, are not included.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the aureole; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of sexual
relationship, or the use of the excretory functions in the following sexually-
oriented acts or conduct, anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia,
cunnilingus, fellation, necrophilia, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism,
zooerasty;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast;
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes; and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any persons;
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and
         (g)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
      ADULT SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building
used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing; utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises were a like sign is located.
   AGRICULTURE. Any growing of soil crops in the customary manner on open
tracts of land; the raising of animals or poultry. The term includes incidental
retail selling by the producer of products raised on the premises, providing
that customer parking space is furnished off the public right-of-way.
   ALLEY. A public or private right of way less than 30 feet wide which affords
secondary means of access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms designed for, intended for or used as a
residence for an individual or 1 family.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more dwelling units in 1 building.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, unsubdivided
acreage or boundary lines of the corporate limits of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Any dwelling other than a hotel or a motel where either
meals or lodging are provided for compensation for 5 or more persons pursuant
to previous arrangements.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattels or property of any kind; when a structure is divided by
bearing walls without openings, each portion of the building is a separate
building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the acreage of the lowest and
the highest point of that portion of the lot covered by the building to the
highest point of the roof which shall be the deck line of mansard roofs and the
mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
   BUILDING, MAIN. One of at least 2 buildings on the same lot to which the
other buildings are incidental; contrast with accessory building.
   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession on
a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises where a
sign is located.
   CANNABIS AND HEMP RETAIL BUSINESS. A cannabis retail business or lower-
potency hemp edible retailer as defined under § 115.002 of the code and
requiring retail registration pursuant to Chapter 115, including cannabis
retailers, the retail locations of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations
endorsement, microbusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, and medical
combination businesses operating a retail location, and lower-potency hemp
edible retailers, as each is defined under M.S. Ch. 342.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION BUSINESS. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the Office of Cannabis
Management.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY SERVICE. A cannabis business licensed to purchase cannabis
flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived
consumer products from licensed cannabis microbusinesses with a retail
endorsement, cannabis mezzobusinesses with a retail endorsement, cannabis
retailers, medical cannabis retailers, and medical cannabis combination
businesses; transport and deliver cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumable products to customers; and
perform other actions approved by the Office of Cannabis Management.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURER. A cannabis business with a cannabis wholesaler
license from the Office of Cannabis Management authorized to operate as set
forth in M.S. § 342.33.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. A cannabis business entitled to obtain and test
immature cannabis plants and seedlings, cannabis flower, cannabis products,
hemp plant parts, hemp concentrate, artificially derived cannabinoids, lower-
potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products as set forth in M.S. §
342.37.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTER BUSINESS. A cannabis business entitled to transport
immature cannabis plants and seedlings, cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, hemp plant parts, hemp concentrate, lower-
potency hemp edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products as set forth in M.S. §
342.35.
   CANNABIS WHOLESALING. A cannabis business with a cannabis manufacturer
license from the Office of Cannabis Management authorized to operate as set
forth in M.S. § 342.31.
   CHURCH/RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION / PLACE OF WORSHIP. A tax-exempt building,
together with its accessory buildings and uses commonly associated with
religious institutions, where persons regularly assemble and use principally
for religious worship and which building, together with its accessory buildings
and common religious uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body
organized to sustain public worship.
   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the intersection of 2 or more streets.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. An interior lot having frontage on 2 streets.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A detached residential building containing 2 dwelling
units, designed for occupancy by not more than 2 families.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residential building designed for or occupied
by 3 or more families, with the number of families in residence not exceeding
the number of dwelling units provided.
   DWELLING UNIT. One room, or rooms connected together, constituting a
separate, independent housekeeping establishment for owner occupancy, or rental
or lease on at least a weekly basis, and physically separated from any other
rooms or dwelling units which may be in the same structure, and containing
independent cooking and sleeping facilities.
   FAMILY. A single individual living alone or any number of individuals
related by blood, marriage or adoption to each other, living together on the
premises as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit (except for necessary
servants) as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging
house, hotel, club, fraternity or sorority house.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign on which the illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and/or color at all times where the sign is
in use.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building, measured from the exterior walls, including basements and attached
accessory buildings.
   FRONT YARD. A yard extending between the side yard lines and lying between
the road or highway right-of-way and the nearest line of the building, for the
full width of the lot.
   FUNERAL HOME. An undertaking establishment where the deceased are prepared
for burial, funerals are conducted, and which provides for viewing of the
deceased. The facility may consist of a preparation room, arrangement office,
facilities for funeral and/or wake services. The facility may also have a
single-family residence on the premises as an accessory use.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for storage of self-propelled
vehicles and tools and equipment maintained as incidental to a conforming use
of the premises.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises except those defined as a private garage used
for storage or care of self-propelled vehicles and/or where any vehicles are
equipped for operation, repair or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   HALF STORY. A story with at least 2 opposite exterior sides meeting a
sloping roof not more than 2 feet above the floor of the story.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   Any use which is customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling
and carried on by family members residing therein, is clearly incidental and
secondary to the use of the dwelling for dwelling purposes, and does not change
the character of the dwelling.
      (2)   Except as provided in § 152.17 below, the following shall not be
home occupations; clinics, hospitals, hair salons, mortuaries, motor vehicle
repair for hire, welding, animal hospitals and the maintenance of animals.
   HOTEL. Any building or building portion where lodging is offered to
transient guests for compensation and in which there are more than 5 sleeping
rooms, with minimal cooking facilities, if any, in individual dwelling units.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by lights or luminous tubes as a part of the sign.
   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot.
   JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including but not limited to scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber products, glass
products, lumber products and products resulting from the wrecking of
automobiles or other machinery.
   LOADING AREA. Any area where vehicles are parked or maneuvered for loading
or unloading.
   LOT. One unit of a recorded plat or subdivision with frontage on a public
street and on which is located or will be located a building and its accessory
buildings and, including as a minimum, the open spaces as are required by this
chapter.
   LOT AREA. The land area within the lot lines.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total allowable amount of lot area, expressed as a
percentage, which may be covered by a principle use and its accessory
structures.
   LOT DEPTH. The average distance between the front and rear lot line; the
greater frontage of a corner lot shall be its depth and the lesser frontage
shall be its width.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal straight line distance between the side lot lines
at the setback line.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE MANUFACTURER. A hemp business with a lower-potency
hemp edible manufacturer license from Office of Cannabis Management authorized
to operate as set forth in M.S. § 342.45.
   MIXED USE DOWNTOWN. A building that includes a combination of office,
retail, residential, or commercial uses within one structure or building.
   MOBILE HOME or MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   A detached residential dwelling unit designed for transportation
after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or
other trailers, arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for the occupancy except for minor and incidental unpacking
and assembly operations, location on jacks or other temporary or permanent
foundations, connections to utilities and the like.
      (2)   A travel trailer is not a MOBILE HOME.
   NAMEPLATE SIGN. Any sign which states the name and/or address of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on September 8, 1970, (the
effective date of Ord. 225, entitled An Ordinance for the Purpose of Promoting
Health, Safety, Order, Convenience, Prosperity, and General Welfare by
Regulating the Use of Land, the Location, Area Size, Use and Height of
Buildings on Lots and the Density of Population in the City of St. Charles,
Minnesota, which is the basis for this chapter) and not conforming to this code
except that a like use is not nonconforming if the use would be authorized
under a conditional use permit.
   ON-SITE CONSUMPTION. A cannabis microbusiness or lower-potency hemp edible
retailer which has been issued an on-site consumption endorsement by the Office
of Cannabis Management to allow for consumption of certain products regulated
under M.S. Ch. 342 on the premises.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company,
association, joint stock association, body politic, including a trustee,
receiver, assignee or similar representative.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   PREMISES. A lot or plot with the required front, side and rear yards for a
dwelling or other uses as allowed under this chapter.
   PRINCIPAL USE. One of at least 2 uses of a building or lot to which the
other uses are incidental; contrast with accessory use.
   REAR YARD. An open space unoccupied except for accessory buildings on the
same lot with a building between the rear lines of the building and the rear
lot line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
   ROTATING SIGN. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SETBACK. The shortest horizontal distance between the lot line and the
foundation walls of a building or the allowable building line as defined by §
152.41(E).
   SIDE YARD. An open, unoccupied space on a lot between the building on the
lot and the side line of the lot, for the length of the building only.
   SIGN. A name, identification, display, illustration or device which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
land in view of the general public and which directs attention to a product,
place, activity, purpose, institution or business.
   SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING. A building designed or used exclusively for
residence purposes by 1 family and attached on only 1 side to another single-
family attached dwelling under separate ownership.
   STORY. That portion of the building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the next floor above it, or, if there is no floor
above it, the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change or addition to the supporting members of a
building such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into
more than 2 lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 2-1/
2 acres in area and 150 feet in width, for the purpose of transfer of ownership
or building development, or if a new street is involved, any division of a
parcel of land.
      (2)   The term includes resubdivision, and, where it is appropriate to
the context, relates either to the process of subdivision or to the land
subdivided. Parcels existing on September 8, 1970, may be divided once into 2
lots, but any further division of this original parcel shall fall within the
scope of this definition.
   SURFACE AREA OF SIGN. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, not including any
structural elements outside the limits of the sign and not forming an integral
part of the display. Only 1 side of a double-face or V-type sign structure
shall be used in computing total surface area.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building is designated,
arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the provisions of this chapter, as applied to a
specific piece of property, except that modification in the allowable uses
within a district shall not be considered a variance.
   YARD. Any space in the same lot with a building open and unobstructed from
the ground to the sky, except for fences 6 feet or less in height, and trees
and shrubs.
(1987 Code, § 701.02) (Am. Ord. 529, passed 10-13-2009; Am. Ord. 561, passed 2-
26-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-645, passed 12-27-2022; Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-12-2024)
DISTRICTS; PROVISIONS
§ 152.15 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Establishment of districts. For the purpose of zoning, the city is
divided into the following districts:
      (1)   A-1: Agriculture-Conservation;
      (2)   R-1: One and Two-family Residence;
      (3)   R-1M: Modular and Mobile Home;
      (4)   R-1-0: High Density Residence; “0” lot line;
      (5)   R-2: Multiple Family Residence;
      (6)   R-3: Mixed Used Residence;
      (7)   C-1: Central Business;
      (8)   C-2: Service-Commercial;
      (9)   C-3; Regional Commercial/Industrial;
      (10)   I-1: Light Industrial;
      (11)   I-2: General Industry; and
      (12)   PUD: Planned Unit Development.
   (B)   Zoning map.
      (1)   The boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
shown on the zoning map. The zoning map and all notations, references and data
shown thereon are adopted and made part of this chapter and are on file, and
for public inspection, in City Hall and in the Winona County Office of Register
of Deeds.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator and his or her staff shall maintain the
zoning map, and amendments to the map shall be recorded on it within 30 days
after the amendments are officially published.
   (C)   District boundaries. The boundaries between districts are, unless
otherwise indicated, either the center lines of streets, alleys or railroad
rights-of-way or lines extended or lines parallel or perpendicular thereto.
Numbers shown on the zoning map between a street and a district boundary line
indicate that the district boundary line is parallel to the street at a
distance from the street equal to the number of feet stated unless otherwise
indicated.
   (D)   Regulations. The general regulations in §
152.41 apply to all districts; however, additional specific regulations are in
the following sections.
(1987 Code, § 702.01) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 152.16 AGRICULTURE CONSERVATION DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The A-1 Agriculture Conservation District is designed to
allow productive use of undeveloped land within the corporate limits through
agricultural uses, and to reserve natural and wooded areas for passive
recreational purposes, especially along the path of the Whitewater River. This
district intends to preserve and ensure appropriate use of existing open space
within the community.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following principal uses shall be
permitted within an A-1 District:
      (1)   Cemeteries;
      (2)   Farmlands and farmsteads where the principal activity is the
production of farm crops or garden products through soil cultivation;
      (3)   Public fairgrounds;
      (4)   Public nature trails, picnic areas, playgrounds and rest areas;
      (5)   Public parks and recreational uses owned or operated by
governmental agencies; and
      (6)   Cannabis cultivation.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following accessory uses shall be
permitted within an A-1 District:
      (1)   Detached manufactured homes where the primary income of the
principal occupant is derived from agricultural activities. A manufactured home
must be accessory to a farmstead which is a designated principal use and shall
be serviced by underground utilities and shall be placed on a permanent frost
footing;
      (2)   Municipal or county structures for storing park and fairgrounds
equipment and furnishings;
      (3)   Storage barns, garages and silos; and
      (4)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses listed in
divisions (B) and (D) of this section.
   (D)   Conditional use. The following use may be permitted subject to a
conditional use permit as regulated in § 152.43: The boarding of horses,
provided that no more than 1 horse will be allowed per 3 acres of land,
adequate fencing must be provided in order to protect adjoining properties and
to maintain public safety, and adequate facilities must be constructed in order
to provide shelter for the horses.
   (E)   Height, yard setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements. The
height, yard setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements shall be those set
forth in § 152.40.
(1987 Code, § 702.02) (Am. Ord. 417, passed 9-12-1996; Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-
12-2024)
§ 152.17 ONE AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENCE AND SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 Residence District is intended for low-density
residential development which
will provide space and lot standards that effectively relate to the
Comprehensive Plan and policies, and which ensure that adequate municipal
facilities will be available at reasonable cost.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses.
      (1)   The following uses shall be permitted in the R-1 Residence
District:
         (a)   Boarding or lodging houses or tourist homes limited to 2
accessory units offering accommodations for boarding or lodging purposes;
         (b)   Churches, parish houses, convents or children's nurseries,
provided that no building shall be located within 50 feet of any abutting
residential lot;
            1.   Hours of operation. Hours of operation for services shall be
limited to between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except for special seasonal
religious activities commonly held by that religious group, which may be held
at their traditional times.
            2.   Architectural control. The building plan, including the site
plan for the church shall be certified by an architect registered in the State
of Minnesota, stating that he or she has personally viewed the site and has
designed the building to fit the site as planned and to be harmonious with the
neighboring buildings, topography and natural surroundings and in accordance
with the purposes and objectives of the Zoning Code. To ensure the church /
religious institution reflects the scale and character of the adjacent
residential properties, the building materials of the church / religious
institution shall be predominantly quality exterior materials, including brick,
masonry, stone, stucco, textured concrete masonry units, steel siding, or
vinyl. Concrete panels with a veneer of brick or masonry may be approved
provided the material gives the appearance of one or more of the high quality
building materials listed above. Stamped concrete panels will only be
considered if they are finished with patterns and colors such that they appear
to be brick or masonry.
            3.   Site plan. At the time of an application, the applicant shall
file three copies of a site plan for the church site in accordance with the
following provisions: a plot plan which shall adequately illustrate existing
and proposed parking area and spaces; garage locations; driveways; loading
area; landscaping and screening including location, spacing, species and size
of trees and shrubs, existing buildings, proposed buildings, dimensions of lot,
parking areas, setbacks and distances between major elements of the use;
existing topography and proposed final contours.
            4.   Bell towers, steeples, spires and similar structures. Bell
towers, steeples, spires and similar structures must meet the following
standards:
               a.    Height. The height of bell towers, steeples, spires and
similar structures must not exceed 75 feet.
               b.   Location. Bell towers, steeples, spires and similar
structures must be located at least 25 feet from a side or rear property line
and at least 25 feet from a front property line or property line abutting a
public street.
            5.   Screening. Where a church is adjacent to a dwelling
residential zone, the church shall provide screening along the boundary
adjacent to the residential use. Such screening shall consist of a solid fence
or wall or equivalent as approved by the City Council when recommended by the
Planning Commission no more than 6 feet in height, but shall not extend within
15 feet of any street or driveway. Such screening will not be required along
the street.
         (c)   Grain or vegetable farming or gardening on unplatted land
assessed as agricultural, but not involving a sales structure;
         (d)   Home occupations as defined in §
152.02, and offices of professional persons where the use does not exceed 1/
3 of the main floor space of a dwelling, is only in the principal dwelling and
does not employ any persons not residing on the premises;
         (e)   Industrial manufactured homes subject to all provisions of this
section;
         (f)   Individual mobile home stands subject to all the provisions of
this section;
         (g)   Licensed daycare facility serving 12 or fewer persons;
         (h)   One and Two-family dwellings (such as duplexes, double
bungalows);
         (i)   Parks and recreational areas owned or operated by government
agencies;
         (j)   Public elementary or high schools, or private schools with an
equivalent curriculum provided that no building shall be located within 50 feet
of any abutting residential lot;
         (k)   Public golf course, public tennis court (excluding clubhouse);
and
         (l)   Single-family detached dwellings.
      (2)   All manufactured home units shall be served by public sewer, water
and utility systems. Manufactured homes shall be placed on continuous, weight-
bearing frost footings that extend completely around the perimeter of the
structure.
      (3)   Single-family attached dwellings shall be permitted when all of the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The minimum distance between each side yard line and the
structure must be 10 feet;
         (b)   Total lot area must be at least 7,500 square feet, with a
minimum width of 75 feet and a minimum depth of 100 feet. All other appropriate
R-1 District zoning requirements apply; and
         (c)   The applicant records a covenant and deed restriction on all
properties, which will abut the common lot line (0-lot line). The covenants and
deed restrictions shall provide the following:
            1.   Access to the abutting property for the adjacent property
owner and/or the owner's representative for construction, reconstruction,
repair or maintenance of either side of the total property;
            2.   Easements for necessary encroachments for footings, eaves and
provide for mutual perpetual easements in the event of an encroachment by the
party wall;
            3.   Restrictions to limit changes of color, material and design of
the dwelling, as to be compatible with the attached unit; and
            4.   Two off-street parking spaces which may be in tandem.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the R-1 Residential District:
      (1)   Buildings and land uses customarily incidental to the uses
permitted by divisions (B) and (D) of this section. Any accessory use shall be
located on the same lot as the principal use;
      (2)   Maintaining dogs, cats or other household pets, subject to
licensing requirements, health regulations and other applicable city code
provisions;
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading-unloading facilities as regulated by
§
152.41(L);
      (4)   Parking 1 commercial motor vehicle of not more than 26 feet in
length used by the resident occupant, and parking of passenger cars, but not
including the storage of vehicles which are inoperable or for sale or rent;
      (5)   Private garages, carports, boathouses and stables, 1 of each
designation subject to yard and setback requirements of this chapter;
      (6)   Private swimming pools when completely enclosed within a chain link
or similar fence 5 feet or more in length; and
      (7)   Signs as regulated by §
152.41(K).
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit as provided in §
152.43:
      (1)   Boarding or lodging houses and tourist homes offering
accommodations for from 3 to 8 persons;
      (2)   Cemetery;
      (3)   Golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming pool, private
swimming pool serving more than 1 family, provided that no principal structure
or use shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district;
      (4)   Licensed daycare facilities serving 13 or more persons;
      (5)   Mobile home park developments subject to the special conditions and
requirements as set forth in §
152.41(M);
      (6)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
museums, art galleries, libraries, post offices and other municipal service
buildings, except those customarily considered industrial in use, providing
that no buildings shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential
district;
      (7)   Retail shops, services and offices serving neighborhood needs of an
essential or convenience nature. Determination shall be the responsibility of
the Council when the application for the conditional use permit is reviewed;
and
      (8)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks and
similar essential public utility and service structures.
      (9)   Funeral home: development/use standards.
         (a)   Hours of operation for a funeral home shall be limited to
between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (b)   To ensure the funeral home reflects the scale and character of
the adjacent residential properties, the building materials of the funeral home
shall be predominantly quality exterior materials, including brick, masonry,
stone, stucco, textured concrete masonry units, steel siding, or vinyl.
Concrete panels with a veneer of brick or masonry may be approved provided the
material gives the appearance of one or more of the high quality building
materials listed above. Stamped concrete panels will only be considered if they
are finished with patterns and colors such that they appear to be brick or
masonry.
         (c)   All site areas not accommodating buildings, parking, vehicular
and pedestrian circulation, shall be landscaped with trees and/or plant
materials to maintain privacy between the funeral home and residences.
         (d)   Any loading areas or parking spaces located within 10 feet of a
residential property line must be screened by vegetation consisting of trees
and/or plant materials to reduce visual clutter.
         (e)   All mechanical structures shall be screened from public rights-
of-way as well as abutting residential properties.
         (f)   The petitioner must submit a landscaping plan for review.
   (E)   Design criteria. All dwellings in the R-1 District shall meet the
following design criteria:
      (1)   A permanent frost footing shall form a complete enclosure under
exterior walls;
      (2)   The minimum width of the structures shall be 20 feet measured from
the face of the exterior walls on the narrowest side; and
      (3)   All mobile homes installed after September 8, 1970, shall be
anchored by means of adequate tiedowns to prevent uplift, sliding, rotation and
overturning. Anchoring systems shall be able to withstand a lateral force of 15
pounds per square foot and an uplift of 9 pounds per square foot;
   (F)   Height, yard setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements. The
height, yard setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements shall be as set
forth in §
152.40.
(1987 Code, § 702.03) (Am. Ord. 418, passed 9-12-1996 ; Am. Ord. 520, passed
10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 529, passed 10-13-2009)
§ 152.18 MODULAR AND MOBILE HOME RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1M District is intended for medium density residential
development utilizing modular and mobile home concepts on those areas where the
development fits the land use plan and policies, and which ensure that adequate
municipal facilities will be available.
   (B)   Permitted principal use. Within an R-1M District, unless otherwise
provided by this code, no building or land shall be used except for modular and
mobile homes established for single-family residence when erected on permanent
foundations and when meeting applicable current National Fire Protection
Association and Uniform Building Codes.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The permitted accessory uses in the R-1M
Modular and Mobile Home Residence District are those uses permitted in §
152.17(C).
   (D)   Height, yard setbacks, lot area requirements. The height, yard
setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements shall be as set forth in §
152.40.
(1987 Code, § 702.04)
§ 152.19 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENCE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 District is intended for apartments, row houses,
townhouses, dormitories and other buildings of 3 or more dwelling units in
those areas where the development fits the Comprehensive Plan, where properly
related to other land uses and thoroughfares and where adequate municipal
utilities are available.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. Within an R-2 District, unless otherwise
provided by this chapter, no building or land shall be used except for the
following:
      (1)   Boarding or lodging houses and tourist homes having accommodations
for 3 to 8 persons;
      (2)   Hospitals, convalescent and nursing homes, low income housing or
elderly projects;
      (3)   Individual mobile home stands subject to all provisions of this
section;
      (4)   Licensed daycare facility serving 16 or fewer persons;
      (5)   Medical and dental offices and clinics;
      (6)   Multiple dwellings, apartment buildings, townhouses and group or
row houses (attached) each consisting of 3 to 12 dwelling units;
      (7)   Private clubs or lodges, except those whose chief activity is a
service customarily carried on as a business for profit;
      (8)   Religious, educational, charitable or philanthropic institutions;
      (9)   Signs as regulated in §
152.41(K); and
      (10)   Any use permitted in §
152.17(B) as regulated therein, except grain or vegetable farming or gardening
shall be limited to an accessory use located on the same lot as the principal
uses.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the R-2 Residence District: uses as permitted in §
152.17(C).
   (D)   Design criteria. All dwellings in the R-2 District shall meet the
following design criteria:
      (1)   A permanent frost footing shall form a complete enclosure under
exterior walls;
      (2)   The minimum width of the structures shall be 20 feet measured from
the face of the exterior wall on the narrowest side; and
      (3)   (a)   All mobile homes installed after September 8, 1970, shall be
anchored by means of adequate tiedowns to prevent uplift, sliding, rotation and
overturning.
         (b)   Anchoring systems shall be able to withstand a lateral force of
15 pounds per square foot and an uplift of 9 pounds per square foot.
(1987 Code, § 702.05)
Cross-reference:
   Modular and Mobile Home Residence District, see §
152.18
§ 152.19.5 MULTIPLE-FAMILY APARTMENT DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-4 District is intended to permit multi-family dwelling
units of 12-40 units housed in one structure.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. Within an R-4 District, unless otherwise
provided by this chapter, no building or land shall be used except for
apartment buildings consisting of 12-40 dwelling units.
   (C)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Maximum density of 16 units per acre.
      (2)   Front yard setback of at least 30 feet for the principal structure.
      (3)   Side yard setback of at least 10 feet, or 25 feet for corner side
yards for the principal structure.
      (4)   Setbacks from structures in R-1, R-1M, R 1-O districts shall be 30
feet from district lines.
      (5)   Rear yard setback of at least 30 feet for the principal structure.
      (6)   Maximum height of 45 feet.
      (7)   Building coverage shall not exceed 45% of the lot area.
      (8)   Shall provide 1.5 parking spaces per dwelling unit.
      (9)   Required parking shall have a 10 foot setback from any property
line.
   (D)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Buildings shall be constructed of high-quality materials. Primary
materials allowed are as follows:
         (a)   Brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Wood consisting of horizontal lap siding with a painted surface;
         (d)   Precast concrete units and concrete block, provided that
surfaces are molded, serrated or treated with a textured material;
         (e)   Transparent glass;
         (f)   Vinyl or fiberboard siding;
         (g)   Other materials as approved by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The following materials are prohibited:
         (a)   Plain or painted concrete block;
         (b)   Plain precast concrete panels;
         (c)   Prefabricated steel or sheet metal panels;
         (d)   Aluminum, fiberglass or asphalt siding.
(Ord. 2022-649, passed 12-27-2022)
§ 152.20 MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Mixed Use Residential District is designed to accommodate that
area surrounding the Central Business District where there exists the
possibility of conflicting uses between commercial and residential development.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this district to minimize or eliminate those
conflicts.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses shall be permitted in the
R-3 Mixed Use Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (2)   One and Two-family dwellings (such as duplexes and double
bungalows);
      (3)   Boarding or lodging houses or tourist homes limited to 6 accessory
units offer accommodations for boarding or lodging purposes;
      (4)   Churches, parish houses or children's daycare facilities;
         (a)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation for services shall be
limited to between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m., except for special seasonal
religious activities commonly held by that religious group, which may be held
at their traditional times.
         (b)   Architectural control. The building plan, including the site
plan for the church shall be certified by an architect registered in the State
of Minnesota, stating that he or she has personally viewed the site and has
designed the building to fit the site as planned and to be harmonious with the
neighboring buildings, topography and natural surroundings and in accordance
with the purposes and objectives of the Zoning Code. To ensure the church /
religious institution reflects the scale and character of the adjacent
residential properties, the building materials of the church / religious
institution shall be predominantly quality exterior materials, including brick,
masonry, stone, stucco, textured concrete masonry units, steel siding, or
vinyl. Concrete panels with a veneer of brick or masonry may be approved
provided the material gives the appearance of one or more of the high quality
building materials listed above. Stamped concrete panels will only be
considered if they are finished with patterns and colors such that they appear
to be brick or masonry.
         (c)   Site plan. At the time of an application, the applicant shall
file three copies of a site plan for the church site in accordance with the
following provisions: a plot plan which shall adequately illustrate existing
and proposed parking area and spaces; garage locations; driveways; loading
area; landscaping and screening including location, spacing, species and size
of trees and shrubs, existing buildings, proposed buildings, dimensions of lot,
parking areas, setbacks and distances between major elements of the use;
existing topography and proposed final contours.
         (d)   Bell towers, steeples, spires and similar structures. Bell
towers, steeples, spires and similar structures must meet the following
standards:
            1.    Height. The height of bell towers, steeples, spires and
similar structures must not exceed 75 feet.
            2.   Location. Bell towers, steeples, spires and similar structures
must be located at least 25 feet from a side or rear property line and at least
25 feet from a front property line or property line abutting a public street.
         (e)   Screening. Where a church is adjacent to a dwelling residential
zone, the church shall provide screening along the boundary adjacent to the
residential use. Such screening shall consist of a solid fence or wall or
equivalent as approved by the City Council when recommended by the Planning
Commission no more than 6 feet in height, but shall not extend within 15 feet
of any street or driveway. Such screening will not be required along the
street; and
      (5)   Home occupations as defined in §
152.02 and offices of professional persons where the use does not exceed 1/3 of
the main floor space of a dwelling, is only in the principal dwelling and does
not employ any persons not residing on the premises.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses:
      (1)   Buildings and land uses customarily incidental to the uses
permitted by divisions (B) and (D) of this section;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading-unloading facilities as regulated by
§
152.41(L);
      (3)   Private garages and carports subject to yard and setback
requirements of this chapter; and
      (4)   Signs as regulated by §
152.41(K).
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit as provided in §
152.43:
      (1)   Retail sales;
      (2)   Personal and professional services;
      (3)   Offices;
      (4)   Restaurants; and
      (5)   Multi-family units (3 or more dwelling units).
      (6)   Funeral home: development/use standards.
         (a)   Hours of operation for a funeral home shall be limited to
between 8:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
         (b)   To ensure the funeral home reflects the scale and character of
the adjacent residential properties, the building materials of the funeral home
shall be predominantly quality exterior materials, including brick, masonry,
stone, stucco, textured concrete masonry units, steel siding, or vinyl.
Concrete panels with a veneer of brick or masonry may be approved provided the
material gives the appearance of one or more of the high quality building
materials listed above. Stamped concrete panels will only be considered if they
are finished with patterns and colors such that they appear to be brick or
masonry.
         (c)   All site areas not accommodating buildings, parking, vehicular
and pedestrian circulation, shall be landscaped with trees and/or plant
materials to maintain privacy between the funeral home and residences.
         (d)   Any loading areas or parking spaces located within 10 feet of a
residential property line must be screened by vegetation consisting of trees
and/or plant materials to reduce visual clutter.
         (e)   All mechanical structures shall be screened from public rights-
of-way as well as abutting residential properties.
         (f)   The petitioner must submit a landscaping plan for review.
(1987 Code, § 702.06) (Am. Ord. 520, passed 10-14-2008; Am. Ord. 529, passed
10-13-2009)
§ 152.21 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The planned unit development (PUD) provisions are intended to
encourage the following:
      (1)   More efficient use of land and public services; and
      (2)   Pleasantness or desirability of land by allowing, under certain
circumstances, a more flexible means of land development and redevelopment than
is otherwise permissible under the lot-by-lot restrictions of each use
district. The uniqueness of a PUD may necessitate Council action modifying or
waiving certain provisions of the zoning code and subdivision regulations. PUD
is for use primarily in 2 situations:
         (a)   Vacant land. Areas of substantial open land where strict pre-
regulation may limit good urban planning, may restrict the full achievement of
the Comprehensive Plan, or may not meet those changes in technology and demand
that would be consistent with the best interests of the entire city; and
         (b)   Built-up and aged areas. Areas of the city needing
rehabilitation and redevelopment, including areas which may be deficient in
public facilities and services, where private investment should be encouraged
to contribute to that redevelopment; and in recognition that necessary
redevelopment cannot be expected to take place in strict accordance with those
uniform regulations appropriate to more viable and established areas of the
city.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   A tract of land to be developed as a PUD shall be under the control
of 1 of the following:
         (a)   A single owner; or
         (b)   A group of land owners, acting through a corporation, where each
owner agrees in advance to be bound by the conditions and regulations which
will be effective within the district and to record covenants, easements and
other provisions with the County Registrar of Deeds.
      (2)   Each PUD shall be designated as 1 of the 4 following types
according to the principle use by area permitted in the existing zoning
district or districts in which the land proposed for the unit is located:
Residential (PUD-R), Commercial (PUD-C), Industrial (PUD-I) or Institutional
(PUD-INST).
      (3)   All PUDs shall be so designated and numbered in sequence on the
zoning map.
      (4)   In open land areas, no residential or industrial PUD shall be less
than 3 acres and no commercial or institutional PUD shall be less than 2 acres.
In areas occupied by buildings or areas that are vacant or undeveloped but are
surrounded to a major extent by land occupied by buildings, no PUD shall be
less than 32,000 square feet.
      (5)   (a)   A PUD may include a mixture of residential, commercial,
industrial and institutional uses, or any combination. The extent of each use
shall be determined by the type of PUD proposed and the procedures in division
(C) below.
         (b)   Uses other than the principal use by area permitted in the
existing zoning district or districts in which the proposed PUD land is located
shall not result in undue adverse effect on surrounding areas, and shall be
consistent with the intent of this section and the concept of the proposed PUD.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   Pre-application. The applicant shall meet with a member of the
Planning Department to discuss the procedures and requirements governing
approval of PUDs. In some instances, a conference with the City Planning and
Zoning Commission may be necessary.
      (2)   Preliminary plan; submission. The applicant shall submit to the
Zoning Administrator an application for a zoning amendment with a fee as is set
out in §
34.01. The application shall be accompanied by a preliminary plan showing the
following:
         (a)   Locations and dimensions of the area;
         (b)   Exact sizes and location of existing and proposed buildings;
         (c)   Existing and proposed uses of structures and open areas;
         (d)   Exterior lighting plan;
         (e)   Landscaping plan;
         (f)   Grading plan;
         (g)   Utility plan;
         (h)   Construction schedule or timetable indicating the starting date
and completion date;
         (i)   Off-street parking, including parking for the handicapped when
required (roadways designated for parking shall be designated no parking);
         (j)   Exterior view of buildings;
         (k)   Table summarizing the area of land devoted to various uses
including floor area, open space, living space, recreation space; type of
construction for driveways and walkways;
         (l)   Playground equipment, mailboxes, air conditioning, trash
receptacles and similar objects;
         (m)   Whether units will be rented or sold and how land will be
transferred;
         (n)   When a plat will be submitted for approval;
         (o)   Protective covenants and homeowners association by-laws;
         (p)   Optional features, if any;
         (q)   Information relating to topography, accesses, surrounding land
uses;
         (r)   Other matters, including documents showing ownership and a
preliminary plat, if requested by the Zoning Administrator; and
         (s)   If the plan will be implemented in increments, a schedule
showing the time within which application for approval of various parts will be
filed shall also be attached.
      (3)   Preliminary plan waiver. Portions of the preliminary plan
procedures may be waived at the Commission's discretion on the Zoning
Administrator's recommendation when the plan, in whole or in part, is simple
and does not warrant following all preliminary plan procedures.
      (4)   Preliminary plan review. Upon receiving the application and
preliminary plan, the Zoning Administrator shall distribute the plan to other
departments and agencies for review of compliance with applicable standards and
regulations. The Zoning Administrator shall recommend to the Commission,
approval of the proposal in the form submitted, approval with specifications or
disapproval. The recommendations of the Zoning Administrator shall include
findings of fact regarding, but not limited, to the following:
         (a)   The extent to which the plan departs from the zoning and
subdivision regulations otherwise applicable to the subject property,
including, density, bulk and use, and the reasons why the departures are or are
not deemed to be in the public interest;
         (b)   The manner in which the plan does or does not make adequate
provisions for public services, provide adequate control over vehicular traffic
and further the amenities of light and air, recreation and visual enjoyment;
         (c)   The nature and extent of open space, the reliability of the
proposals for maintenance and conservation of the common open space, and the
adequacy or inadequacy of the amount and function of the open space in terms of
the densities proposed in the plan;
         (d)   The effect, beneficial or adverse, of the PUD upon the
neighborhood in which it is proposed to be established;
         (e)   If a plan proposes development over a period of years, the terms
and conditions proposed must be found to protect and maintain the plan's
integrity (this finding shall be made only after consultation with the City
Attorney);
         (f)   In areas occupied by buildings or areas that are vacant or
undeveloped but are surrounded to a major extent by lands occupied by
buildings, the suitability of the proposed structures in relation to existing
structures which will remain and anticipated future development of the area;
and
         (g)   Conformity with all applicable provisions of this chapter and
the Comprehensive Plan.
      (5)   Public hearing; preliminary plan. Within 30 days after receiving
the preliminary plan, the Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
application after giving notice as provided in §
152.47(B). Following the public hearing, the Commission shall submit its
recommendations to the Council. The Commission may recommend disapproval.
      (6)   Council action preliminary plan. The Council shall tentatively
approve the plan, with or without modifications, or disapprove the plan.
      (7)   Final plan submission. Upon tentative approval of the preliminary
plan, the applicant shall submit a final plan of that segment to be developed
first.
      (8)   Final plan; Commission action.
         (a)   The final plan and, if required, final plat shall be submitted
with written application for final plan and plat approval, at least 10 days
before the Commission meeting at which consideration is requested.
         (b)   Approval or disapproval of the final plan and plat will be
conveyed to the subdivider in writing 10 days after the Planning Commission
meeting at which the plan and plat are considered.
         (c)   If the plan and plat are disapproved, the subdivider shall be
notified of the reason for that action and the requirements for Commission
approval.
      (9)   Final plat approval; Council action.
         (a)   After review and approval of the final plan and plat by the
Planning Commission, the final plan and plat and the recommendations of the
Planning Commission shall be submitted to the Council for approval.
         (b)   At least 1 public hearing shall be held on the plan and plat
after notice of the time and place has been published once in the official
newspaper at least 10 days before the day of the hearing.
         (c)   At the hearing, all persons interested in the plan and plat
shall be heard and the Council may approve or disapprove the plan and plat. If
the Council wishes to approve the plan and plat, the Council shall do so by
resolution.
         (d)   The resolution shall provide for accepting all streets, alleys,
easements or the public ways, and parks, or other open spaces dedicated to
public purposes, subject to conditions or restrictions imposed by the Council,
and the area of land involved shall be redesignated as a PUD by ordinance.
         (e)   If the plan and plat are disapproved, the basis of the
disapproval shall be set forth in the Council proceedings and reported to the
persons applying for approval.
      (10)   Effect of approval.
         (a)   The final approved plan and the conditions and restrictions
imposed, if any, shall govern and control the use and development of the land
involved, provided that general zoning regulations which applied to the land
prior to approval of the plan and which are not inconsistent with the plan
shall continue to apply.
         (b)   No building permit shall be issued for any structure within the
district until the Zoning Administrator certifies the structure conforms to the
provisions of the final approved plan and other applicable zoning requirements.
   (D)   Criteria and standards.
      (1)   Preparation of plans. The applicant is encouraged to have the
necessary documents and supporting evidence prepared and endorsed by a
qualified professional team consisting of the following:
         (a)   A planner qualified as a planner-in-charge by the Minnesota
State Planning Agency;
         (b)   A registered architect;
         (c)   A registered land surveyor if the PUD requires the subdivision
of land and the installation of public site subdivision of land and the
installation of public site improvements, as required by state law, as it may
be amended from time to time; and
         (d)   A registered civil engineer, if the PUD requires subdividing
land and improvements.
      (2)   Land use; intensity of development. Dimensional requirements are as
stated for the appropriate district in §
152.40, and as outlined below.
         (a)   Site coverage. Permitted maximum site coverage in the planned
development zone shall not exceed the maximum permitted site coverage in §
152.40; however, site coverage may be calculated on the total land involved in
the planned development.
         (b)   Density. Permitted maximum residential densities in the planned
development zone shall not exceed the permitted maximum densities in §
152.40; minimum land area requirements for the total number of dwelling units
shall be provided as required in §
152.40.
         (c)   Lot area. The minimum lot area requirements in the planned
development zone shall not exceed the minimum lot area requirements in §
152.40, except the average net area of all lots within a variable lot size
development shall not be less than the minimum lot size for the zone within
which the development is located.
      (3)   Plats. All PUDs shall be platted or replatted as required in the
subdivision regulations.
      (4)   Occupancy of PUD.
         (a)   Occupancy and use of buildings and structures in a PUD may be
permitted when the buildings and structures have been completed to the
satisfaction of the Building Inspector and the access drives and parking areas
are sufficiently completed to support emergency vehicles at all times and are
kept in a dust-free condition.
         (b)   Final surfacing of streets, roadways, parking areas and
landscaping may be deferred over winter months upon written agreement to and
approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Administration.
      (1)   Administrative standards and procedures. The Commission may adopt
specific rules and regulations from time to time and place them on public
record in the City Administrator's office.
      (2)   Annual review.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall review each PUD at least once
each year and shall make a report through the Commission to the Council on the
development status in each PUD.
         (b)   If development is not progressing reasonably well and according
to schedule, the owner shall submit a statement to the Zoning Administrator
setting forth the reasons for the lack of progress.
         (c)   If the Council finds the development has not occurred according
to the established development schedule or does not appear reasonable to the
Council, the Council may initiate rezoning to remove the PUD. In any event, the
Council need not find the rezoning to a PUD was in error.
      (3)   Changes.
         (a)   Changes in the final plat involving the location and alignment
of structures not exceeding 10 feet in any direction and other minor revisions
in the shape of structures may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator for
good cause, provided the changes are within the maximum allowable floor area
limits, are in harmony with the intent of the concept statement as to uses and
densities of use, and the architectural style has been approved in writing by
the PUD's homeowners association or other ownership body.
         (b)   All other changes shall be made only after public hearings by
the Commission upon public notice at least once in the official newspaper 10
days before the day of the hearing, and any changes approved by the Council
shall be by resolution as an amendment to the final plan.
(1987 Code, § 702.07)
§ 152.22 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Central Business District is designed to provide a
compact shopping area for the location of offices and retail stores necessary
for servicing the community and surrounding areas and is closely aligned with
the Comprehensive Plan and which maintains a mutually compatible relationship
among the various types of uses.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Adult use/accessory businesses;
      (2)   Amusement and recreation establishments such as indoor theaters,
swimming pools, skating rinks, billiard halls, bowling alleys and similar
commercial recreation facilities;
      (3)   Antique shops;
      (4)   Appliance stores;
      (5)   Art and school supply stores;
      (6)   Art studios, art galleries, art sales and supplies stores;
      (7)   Bakeries, provided the room or rooms containing the preparation and
baking process shall not have a gross floor area in excess of 2,400 square
feet;
      (8)   Banks, savings institutions;
      (9)   Barber shops;
      (10)   Beauty parlors;
      (11)   Book and stationery stores;
      (12)   Camera and photo stores;
      (13)   Candy and ice cream stores;
      (14)   Car dealers of new or used cars provided cars in enclosed
showrooms only;
      (15)   Carpet and rug stores;
      (16)   Clinics, for treating persons and animals, excluding training
runs, stables or kennels;
      (17)   Clothes pressing and tailoring shops;
      (18)   Clothing stores;
      (19)   Club and lodge halls;
      (20)   Decorating studios;
      (21)   Department stores;
      (22)   Drug stores;
      (23)   Dry cleaning and laundry receiving and pick-up stations, excluding
laundering and dry cleaning processing and self-service laundromats;
      (24)   Dry goods or notions stores;
      (25)   Electrical appliance sales and service;
      (26)   Florist shops;
      (27)   Food, meat, fish, bakery and delicatessen stores;
      (28)   Furniture stores;
      (29)   Gift shops;
      (30)   Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores;
      (31)   Hardware stores;
      (32)   Hobby and toy stores;
      (33)   Jewelry stores;
      (34)   Libraries;
      (35)   Liquor stores or taverns;
      (36)   Loan offices and finance companies;
      (37)   Locksmith shops;
      (38)   Medical and dental clinics and complexes;
      (39)   Marine or boat sales and display; trailer sales; farm implement
sales, provided sales and displays are in enclosed structures only;
      (40)   Mixed Use Downtown, subject to the following:
         (a)   Exclusive of required entrances, the residential use may occupy
no portion of the front 50% of the first story floor area along the front
building line. For corner lots or lots that abut an alley, the standard shall
be applied to one street frontage as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Residential uses shall be provided separate entrances and
separately identified parking stalls.
      (41)   Mortuary or undertaking establishments;
      (42)   Motels and hotels;
      (43)   Newsstands and tobacco shops;
      (44)   Offices, professional;
      (45)   Optical stores;
      (46)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (47)   Parking lots, ramps and garages other than those accessory to a
principal use for the parking and storage of private passenger vehicles only;
      (48)   Pet shops;
      (49)   Phonographs, record and sheet music stores;
      (50)   Photography studios;
      (51)   Physical culture and health services, reducing salons and
masseurs;
      (52)   Public parks, pedestrian malls and recreation areas and
structures;
      (53)   Post offices;
      (54)   Plumbing sales stores;
      (55)   Public safety and utility buildings and structures, community
centers;
      (56)   Radio and television sales and repair stores;
      (57)   Restaurants, excluding drive-in restaurants;
      (58)   Schools: music, business, technical and vocational;
      (59)   Sewing machine sales and service shops;
      (60)   Shoe sales and repair shops;
      (61)   Sporting goods stores;
      (62)   Souvenir and rock shops;
      (63)   Stock and brokerage firms;
      (64)   Tourist information center and displays;
      (65)   Telephone and telegraph offices, telephone booths;
      (66)   Theater, excluding drive-in theaters;
      (67)   Ticket agencies;
      (68)   Travel bureaus and transportation ticket offices;
      (69)   Variety, gift, notion and soft good stores;
      (70)   Vending machines which are coin or car operated, only when
incorporated into a structure; and
      (71)   Cannabis and hemp retail businesses.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses:
      (1)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses listed in
divisions (B) and (D) of this section;
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated by § 152.41(L);
      (3)   Signs as regulated by § 152.41(K);
      (4)   On-site consumption at cannabis microbusinesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retailers; and
      (5)   Cannabis delivery service as an accessory use to a cannabis retail
business.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit as provided in § 152.43:
      (1)   Any business activity of the same general character as those listed
in division (B) above;
      (2)   Drive-in restaurant, provided sufficient off-street parking is
provided; lighting and any resultant glare shall be directed away from
residential districts, and the surface of the parking area shall be dust-free
and well drained; and
      (3)   New and used car display lots, providing the surface of the parking
and display area is dust-free and well drained, and a decorative screen at
least 6 feet in height and of at least 90% opacity shall be placed on all sides
abutting any residential district boundary. This requirement may be modified
only where the screen would interfere with visibility for traffic movement. In
all cases, artificial lighting and glare shall be directed away from any public
right of way and any residential district.
   (E)   Height, yard setbacks and lot coverage requirements. The height, yard
setbacks and lot coverage requirements shall be those stated in § 152.40.
   (F)   Additional district regulations.
      (1)   Lighting (glare) shall be directed away from public rights-of-way
and residential districts.
      (2)   An awning, canopy or marquee suspended from a building may extend
over the public right-of-way 10 feet but not within 2 feet of the curb line.
Structures shall be not less than 8 feet above the sidewalk or ground grade
line, and the owner of the structure shall be responsible for the awning’s,
canopy’s or marquee’s structural safety.
      (3)   All uses within the C-1 District shall be subject to the
performance standards as stated in § 152.23(F).
   (G)   Sidewalks within district.
      (1)   Use of sidewalks. Businesses located within the C-1 Central
Business District, in order to utilize the sidewalk area immediately adjacent
to their business premises for purpose of the temporary display or sale of
ancillary items, must operate in accordance with the terms of this division
(G).
      (2)   Restrictions.
         (a)   Each business will be limited in area immediately adjacent and
contiguous to the business premise and not extending beyond the line of the
building in which the business is located. The display of merchandise shall be
limited to the business frontage allowing for 5 feet for pedestrian traffic,
giving due consideration to the location of any benches, planters, utility/
light poles, or other streetscape or fixtures.
         (b)   No authorization will be given permitting for any permanent
installation to be placed on or in the way, or permit the leaving on the
sidewalk of furnishings, goods, displays or other equipment or personal
property outside of business hours.
         (c)   All merchandise shall be removed from the sidewalk at or before
the daily close of business.
         (d)   The ownership, operation and maintenance of a sidewalk will be
subject to all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations.
         (e)   No items will be placed along the curb so as to obstruct the
flow of pedestrian traffic and will be compliant with all state and federal
laws for setbacks, fire codes, as well as be compliant with any regulations
related to the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(1987 Code, § 702.08) (Am. Ord. 543, passed 4-29-2011; Am. Ord. 2022-645,
passed 12-27-2022; Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.23 SERVICE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Service Commercial District is intended to provide areas
suitable for commercial enterprises which require special traffic access
considerations due to their nature of use. This district will guide the
development of these uses in a manner which will be beneficial to both the
residents and the land use growth pattern of the city by avoiding costly strip
development.
   (B)   Permitted principle uses. The following shall be permitted:
      (1)   Adult use/accessory businesses;
      (2)   Armories, convention halls or exhibition halls;
      (3)   Automobile, truck and farm implement dealers, new and used vehicle
lots, boat, trailer and mobile home display lots and structures;
      (4)   Bus stations;
      (5)   Commercial recreational facilities such as bowling alleys,
miniature golf and driving ranges, skating arenas;
      (6)   Commercial retail and service establishments, greenhouses and
produce sales;
      (7)   Enclosed warehousing and storage structures;
      (8)   Lumber yards, laundromats;
      (9)   Motels, hotels and automobile trailer courts (overnight or
temporary stay only);
      (10)   Municipal service and utility buildings to include water treatment
plant, transformer and relay stations, fire stations, highway department
vehicle and equipment garages;
      (11)   Railway and rights-of-way, fire stations, excluding freight yards;
      (12)   Service stations and repair garages for motor vehicle; tire and
battery sales;
      (13)   Taverns and restaurants, including drive-in facilities;
      (14)   Truck and machinery sales and service;
      (15)   Wholesaling and distributing operations; and
      (16)   Any use permitted in §
152.22(B).
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following uses shall be permitted
accessory uses within a C-2 District:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §
152.41(L);
      (2)   Signs as regulated in §
152.41(K);
      (3)   Uses as customarily incidental to the uses listed in divisions (B)
and (D) of this section. All accessory uses shall be on the same lot as the
principal use;
      (4)   On-site consumption at cannabis microbusinesses and lower-potency
hemp edible retailers; and
      (5)   Cannabis delivery service as an accessory use to a cannabis retail
business.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to
issuing a conditional use permit as provided in §
152.43:
      (1)   Any commercial use of the same general character as those listed in
division (B) above; and
      (2)   Single and multiple family dwellings as regulated in §
152.17.
   (E)   Height, yard setback and lot coverage requirements. The height, yard
setbacks and lot coverage requirements for the C-2 District shall be those
stated in §
152.40.
   (F)   Performance standards. To ensure compliance with the performance
standards set forth below, the Council may require the owner or operator of any
permitted use to have made investigations or tests to show adherence to the
performance standards. Investigation or tests shall be carried out by an
independent testing organization selected by the Council. Investigations or
testing shall be ordered by the owner or operator. The cost of the
investigations and tests shall be shared equally by the owner or operator and
the Council, unless the investigation or tests disclose noncompliance with the
performance standards, in which case the owner or operator shall be responsible
for the entire cost.
      (1)   Noise.
         (a)   At any property line the sound pressure level of noise radiated
from a permitted operation shall not exceed the values given in the table
below.
         (b)   The sound pressure level shall be measured with a sound level
meter and an associated octave band analyzer, both of which are manufactured to
specifications published by the American Standard Specifications for an Octave
Band Filter Set for the Analysis of Noise and Other Sounds, Z24.10-1953,
American Standard Association, Inc., New York, New York.
         (c)   Measurements shall be made using the flat network of the sound
level meter.
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Frequency Band Cycles Per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
20 - 75                          72
75 - 150                         67
150 - 300                        59
300 - 600                        52
600 - 1,200                      46
1,200 - 2,400                    40
2,400 - 4,800                    34
Over 4,800                       32
 
      (2)   Odors. No noxious odors shall be detectable beyond the limits of
the property.
      (3)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall
direct light away from adjoining property. Glare, whether direct or reflected,
such as from floodlights, spotlights or high- temperature processing, and as
differentiated from general illumination, shall not be visible beyond the
limits of the property.
      (4)   Vibration. No vibration shall be discernible to the human sense of
feeling for an accumulated total of 3 or more minutes during any hour at any
property line.
      (5)   Smoke.
         (a)   The Ringelman Smoke Chart, published by the United States Bureau
of Mines, shall be used for measuring smoke at the point of emission.
         (b)   Smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 4 on the chart may be
emitted, except that smoke darker or more opaque than No. 2 on the chart may
not be emitted for period longer than 4 minutes in any 30-minute period.
         (c)   These provisions, applicable to visible gray smoke, shall also
apply to visible smoke of a different color and equivalent apparent opacity.
      (6)   Dust.
         (a)   Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding 0.3 grains per cubic foot of the conveying gas or air.
         (b)   For measurements of the amount of particles in gases resulting
from combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature
of 500°F and 50% excess air.
      (7)   Fumes or gases.
         (a)   Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations or amounts that are noxious, toxic or corrosive.
         (b)   The values given in the following tables in the Air Pollution
Abatement Manual, Chapter 5, Physiological Effects, by the Manufacturing
Chemists’ Association , Inc., Washington, D.C., are guides for determining
permissible concentration or amounts:
            1.   Table 1 (Industrial Hygiene Standards - Maximum Allowable
Concentration for 8-hour day, 5 days per week;
            2.   Table III (Odor Thresholds);
            3.   Table IV (Exposure to Substances Causing Pain in the Eyes);
and
            4.   Table 1 (Exposure to Substances Causing Injury to Vegetation).
         (c)   Detailed plans for the elimination of fumes or gases may be
required before a building permit is issued.
      (8)   Sewer and water. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and treatment of all sewage and waste shall comply with the city,
county and state health standards and requirements.
   (G)   Regulations on screening, landscaping, lighting, storage and outdoor
displays.
      (1)   Screening.
         (a)   All principal and accessory uses, except business signs, which
are situated within 50 feet of a residential district, shall be screened from
the district by a wall or fence of not less than 90% opacity and between 5 and
7 feet in height above the level of the residential district property at the
district boundary.
         (b)   Walls or fences of lesser heights or planting screens may be
permitted by the Council if the type of screen required by this code is found
to interfere with the provisions of adequate amounts of light and air to the
properties.
         (c)   Loading docks in the district shall be screened so as not to be
visible from any public street right-of-way within a residential district.
         (d)   All required screening devices shall be designed so that they
are architecturally harmonious with the principal structures on the site and
they shall be properly maintained so as not to become unsightly hazardous, or
less opaque than when originally constructed.
      (2)   Landscaping.
         (a)   All exposed ground areas surrounding or within a principal or
accessory use, including boulevards, which are not devoted to drives,
sidewalks, patios or other uses shall be landscaped with grass, shrubs, trees
or other ornamental landscape materials.
         (b)   All landscaped areas shall be used for parking vehicles or for
storing or displaying materials, supplies or merchandise.
      (3)   Lighting.
         (a)   All sources of artificial light shall be so fixed, directed,
designed or sized that the sum total of their illumination will not increase
the level of illumination on any nearby residential property by more than 0.1
foot-candle in or within 25 feet of a dwelling nor more than 0.5 foot-candle on
any other part of the property.
         (b)   Glare, whether direct or reflected, as differentiated from
general illumination, shall not be visible from beyond the limits of the
immediate site from which it originates.
      (4)   Storage; displays.
         (a)   All materials, supplies, merchandise or other similar matter not
on display for a direct sale, rental or lease to the ultimate consumer or user
shall be stored within a completely enclosed building within the Service-
Commercial District, or within the confines of a 100% opaque wall or fence not
less than 5 feet in height.
         (b)   Merchandise which is offered for sales as described above may be
displayed beyond the confines of a building in the Service-Commercial District,
but the area occupied by the outdoor display shall not constitute a number of
square feet greater than 10% of the ground floor area of the principal-use
building, unless the merchandise is of a type customarily displayed outdoors
such as garden supplies.
         (c)   No storage of any type shall be permitted within the 1/2 of the
required front or side street setback nearest the streets.
   (H)   Requirements for vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      (1)   (a)   All commercial buildings or structures and their accessory
uses shall be accessible to and from nearby public streets and sidewalks by
driveways and walkways surfaced with a hard, all-weather, durable, dust-free
material and properly drained.
         (b)   Vehicular traffic generated by a commercial use shall be
channeled and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on the public
streets, traffic hazards and excessive traffic through residential areas,
particularly truck traffic.
         (c)   The adequacy of any proposed traffic circulation system to
accomplish these objectives shall be determined by the City Engineer who may
require additional measures for traffic control, including but not limited to
the following: directional signalization, channelization, standby turn lanes,
illumination and storage area and distribution facilities within the commercial
site to prevent back-up of vehicles on public streets.
      (2)   No area used by motor vehicles other than driveways serving as
ingress to and egress from the commercial site shall be located within the
public street right-of-way.
      (3)   All driveways to or from the public street shall be subject to the
following restrictions.
 
Driveways Widths: (Measurement Between Roadway Edges)
Type    Maximum Feet Minimum Feet
One-way 20           12
Two-way 30           24
 
 
Minimum driveway angle to street   Thirty degrees when street is 1-way or
                                   divided, otherwise 60 degrees
Minimum distance between driveways Twenty feet, between roadway edges measured
                                   along street curb line.
 
 
Minimum Distance of Driveway from Street Intersection (Measured Along Street
Curb Line Between Driveway Edge Nearest Intersection and Intersection Street
Curb Line)
                                      Minimum Distance     Minimum When
Type of Street   Type of Intersection when Driveway Enters Driveway Enters Lane
Driveway Enters  Street               Lane Distance        Leaving
                                      Approaching          Intersection*
                                      Intersection
                 Minor street,
Minor street     Collector street or  15 feet              15 feet
                 minor arterial,      20 feet              15 feet
                 major arterial
                 Minor street         20 feet              15 feet
Collector street collector, minor     25 feet              15 feet
                 arterial, major      30 feet              20 feet
                 arterial
                 Minor street         20 feet              15 feet
Major arterial   collector, minor     25 feet              15 feet
                 arterial, major      40 feet              20 feet
                 arterial
* Note: Minimum distance to be the same as that specified for approaching lane
if left turns are permitted into or out of driveways.
 
   (I)   General regulations. Additional regulations applicable to the C-
2 District are set forth in §
152.26.
(1987 Code, § 702.09) (Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-12-2024)
§ 152.24 REGIONAL COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the C-3 Regional Commercial/Industrial
District is to accommodate professional offices and larger scale businesses
that sell goods and provide services to the general public. The businesses
located in this district include those that benefit from access and visibility
from the Interstate 90 and Highway 74 corridors. The majority of the customers
will access these businesses in automobiles, and therefore adequate vehicle
parking must be provided on the business property. Through a combination of
excellent site planning, architectural design, landscaping, design standards
and improvements both within and adjacent to the public right-of-way, this
district is intended to project the image and character of an attractive and
distinctive gateway into St. Charles.
   (B)   Generally.
      (1)   To the extent the provisions of this section conflict with
regulations elsewhere in the city code, the provisions of this section shall
govern development within the Regional Commercial/Industrial (C-3) District.
Additional zoning regulations applicable to the C-3 District are set forth in §
152.41.
      (2)   Any use not listed as either permitted, conditional or accessory in
this district or any use not determined by the Zoning Administrator to be
substantially similar to a use listed as permitted, conditional or accessory
shall be prohibited in this district.
   (C)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Enclosed warehousing and storage structures;
      (2)   Manufacturing, processing, packaging, or assembly;
      (3)   Office;
      (4)   Wholesaling and distributing operations;
      (5)   Research;
      (6)   Retail;
      (7)   Personal services;
      (8)   Professional services;
      (9)   Repair services;
      (10)   Entertainment and amusement services;
      (11)   Motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, or trailer sales and
service;
      (12)   Auto/truck washing services;
      (13)   Farm implements sales and service;
      (14)   Lumberyards and construction material sales or equipment rental;
      (15)   Garden and landscaping sales and service including produce sales;
      (16)   Hotels, motels;
      (17)   Private clubs and lodges, civic organizations;
      (18)   Restaurants, taverns, night clubs, supper clubs and delicatessens;
      (19)   Convenience stores and gas stations;
      (20)   Drive-in or drive through facilities associated with banks,
restaurants, and the like;
      (21)   Public utility facility;
      (22)   Contractors' offices and yards;
      (23)   Cannabis and hemp retail businesses; and
      (24)   Cannabis delivery services.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses.  
      (1)   Accessory uses permitted are uses incidental to the principal uses
such as off-street parking and loading and unloading areas and storage of
merchandise and/or material;
      (2)   Signs are regulated by §
152.41(K); and
      (3)   On-site consumption is a permitted accessory use at cannabis
microbusinesses and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   (E)   Prohibited uses. The following uses shall be prohibited in the C-
3 District:
      (1)   Junkyards;
      (2)   Rental storage units;
      (3)   Manufacture and/or storage of explosives or fireworks;
      (4)   Fuel refineries or production;
      (5)   Asphalt or concrete plants;
      (6)   Landfills;
      (7)   Sludge disposal;
      (8)   Permanent or temporary storage of hazardous waste as a principal
use;
      (9)   Acid manufacturing;
      (10)   Creosote treatment or manufacturing;
      (11)   Rendering plants;
      (12)   Dwelling units;
      (13)   Adult uses;
      (14)   Mining operations; and
      (15)   Any other uses not permitted in divisions (C), (D) or (F) of this
section.
   (F)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to
issuing a conditional use permit as provided in §
152.43:
      (1)   Firearms dealers and indoor shooting and archery ranges;
      (2)   All industries that have outside or open storage of parts,
products, or fuels, and displays of products for sale or rent, that exceeds 25%
of the lot area, including principal and accessory structures;
      (3)   Structures that exceed 55 feet in height;
      (4)   Bulk storage of more than 1.000 gallons of fuel, fertilizer,
agricultural chemicals, or agricultural products;
      (5)   Ground floor building sizes less than 5,000 square feet;
      (6)   Ground floor building sizes greater than 80,000 square feet;
      (7)   Roof signs; and
      (8)   Electronic segmented or traveling message signs.
   (G)   Minimum lot requirements, setbacks, and building size.
      (1)   Lot area: 20,000 square feet.
      (2)   Lot width: 100 feet.
      (3)   Front yard: 30 feet from public street.
      (4)   Rear yard depth: 20 feet.
      (5)   Side yard, interior lot: One-half of building height (minimum of 10
feet).
      (6)   Side yard, corner lot: 20 feet.
      (7)   Ground floor building size: 5,000 square feet, unless authorized by
conditional use permit.
   (H)   Maximum lot coverage, building height and size.
      (1)   Buildings shall cover no more than 50% of the lot area.
      (2)   Total impervious area including buildings and other hard surfaces
shall be limited to 80% of the lot area.
      (3)   Height: 55 feet, unless authorized by conditional use permit.
      (4)   Ground floor building size: 80,000 square feet, unless authorized
by conditional use permit.
   (I)   Performance standards.
      (1)   All federal, state and local regulations, including those of the
Environmental Protection Agency, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the
Minnesota Department of Health, as applicable.
      (2)   All fabrication, manufacturing, processing or production shall be
undertaken within an enclosed building.
      (3)   All uses shall be subject to applicable local, state, and federal
regulations governing discharge into a public storm or sanitary sewer or
waterway. Pretreatment requirements may be set by the Dover-Eyota-St. Charles
Area Sanitary Sewer District or by the city for discharge into the public
sanitary sewer system.
      (4)   All uses within the C-3 District shall be subject to and comply
with the performance standards as stated in §
152.23(F), unless otherwise provided in this section.
   (J)   Architectural control. Exterior building materials shall be
attractive, of a durable finish, and of a quality that is compatible and
harmonious with adjacent structures. All buildings shall be compatible with the
prevailing character of the surrounding district to ensure they will maintain
and enhance the property values of neighboring properties and not adversely
affect the community's public health, safety and general welfare. Exception to
the following architectural controls is only allowed with a recommendation for
approval from the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council. The
exception must be deemed equal to or better in strength and appearance, than
the required control.
      (1)   Exterior building materials. The building exterior wall siding
materials allowed in the district include brick, natural stone, stucco,
exterior insulation and finish systems (E.I.F.S.), glass, decorative concrete
with pattern or integral color, decorative pre-cast concrete panels with
pattern or integral color, textured concrete masonry units, smooth faced
concrete masonry units with integral color, fiber cement, concealed-fastener
lap-seam metal wall panels and metal-faced composite wall panels, commercial
grade vinyl, steel, or aluminum siding, wood siding (not plywood, composite or
engineered wood).
      (2)   Building accent. A minimum of 20% of the exterior building walls
shall be an accent material providing a contrast in texture and/or material
type. Accent materials may be any of the materials allowed in division (1)
above.
      (3)   Front facade. In addition to doors, the front entry shall include a
different treatment of a projected or recessed entry or distinguishing trim,
and a minimum of 2 of the following design elements:
         (a)   Accent material providing a contrast in texture and/or material
type on at least 25% of the wall.
         (b)   Window treatment of at least 25% of the wall.
         (c)   A combination of horizontal and vertical design features.
         (d)   Irregular shaped building footprint and/or facade.
      (4)   Multi-sided architecture. Any rear or side building elevation which
faces a public street or highway shall include a minimum of 2 of the additional
design elements listed under division (3), front facade.
      (5)   Visual relief. No wall shall exceed 100 feet in length without
visual relief. VISUAL RELIEF is defined as the incorporation of design features
such as windows, horizontal and vertical patterns, accent materials, or varying
wall depths. Varying paint or material color does not qualify for visual
relief.
   (K)   Regulations on screening, landscaping, lighting, storage and outdoor
displays.
      (1)   Screening.
         (a)   All loading docks and garbage/recycling containers shall be
screened so as not to be visible from any public street.
         (b)   All rooftop equipment and related piping, ducting, electrical
and mechanical utilities that can be viewed from ground level shall be painted
to match the building, designed to be compatible with the architectural
treatment of the principal structure or screened by the use of parapet walls or
metal screening systems. (Wood fencing shall not be used for the screening of
rooftop mechanical equipment.)
         (c)   Ground mechanical equipment and fuel storage tanks shall be
screened from adjacent properties and adjacent streets.
         (d)   The screening required in this section shall not extend within
15 feet of any street. The screening shall be at least 90% opaque within 5
years and not less than 6 feet in height.
         (e)   All principal and accessory uses, except business signs, which
are situated within 50 feet of a residential district shall be screened from
the district by a wall or fence of not less than 90% opacity and between 5 and
7 feet in height above the level of the residential district property at the
district boundary.
         (f)   Walls or fences of lesser heights or planting screens may be
permitted by the Council if the type of screen required by this code is found
to interfere with the provisions of adequate amounts of light and air to the
properties.
         (g)   All required screening devices shall be designed so that they
are architecturally harmonious with the principal structures on the site and
they shall be properly maintained so as not to become unsightly, hazardous, or
less opaque than when originally constructed.
      (2)   Landscaping. All exposed ground areas surrounding or within a
principal or accessory use, including boulevards, which are not devoted to
drives, sidewalks, patios or other uses shall be landscaped with grass, shrubs,
trees or other ornamental landscape material.
      (3)   Lighting. Exterior lighting shall be arranged to limit direct
illumination and glare upon or into any contiguous parcel. Direct or reflected
glare or spill light shall not exceed 1 foot-candle on any abutting parcel.
Lights within the public right-of-way are exempt from this standard. No
flickering or flashing lights shall be permitted.
      (4)   Storage; displays.
         (a)   All materials, supplies, merchandise or other similar matter not
on display for a direct sale, rental or lease to the ultimate consumer or user
shall be stored within a completely enclosed building or screened to provide
90% opacity through fences or walls, berms, landscaping or any combination
thereof. The plantings shall be a minimum of 3 feet in height at installation
and shall be 6 feet in height in 5 years.
         (b)   Merchandise which is offered for direct sale, rental or lease to
the ultimate consumer may be displayed beyond the confines of a building, but
the area occupied by the outdoor display shall not constitute a number of
square feet greater than 15% of the ground floor area of the principal-use
building. Motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, or trailer sales and
service shall be exempt from the above provision.
         (c)   No storage or any type shall be permitted within half of any
required setback nearest a property line or street.
         (d)   The height of all materials stored/displayed, shall not exceed
the height of the perimeter fence or screening. Equipment on display for direct
sale, rental or lease shall not exceed ¾ of the height of the principle
building.
         (e)   All outdoor storage/display areas shall be hard-surfaced with
either bituminous or concrete. Compacted bituminous millings or other
comparable dust-free surface material may be used upon the recommendation of
the Planning Commission and at the discretion of the City Council.
         (f)   Screening fences or walls, when utilized, shall be constructed
of permanent finished materials, such as vinyl, composite lumber, brick,
stucco, textured concrete, stone or chain link and shall be comparable with
those used in the construction of the principle structure. Other materials may
be used upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission and at the
discretion of the City Council.
   (L)   Requirements for vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
      (1)   All buildings or structures and their accessory uses shall be
accessible from nearby public streets by driveways, parking areas, and
walkways, and shall be hard-surfaced with either bituminous or concrete. All
surfaces shall have adequate drainage.
      (2)   Vehicular traffic generated by a commercial use shall be channeled
and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on the public streets,
traffic hazards and excessive traffic through residential areas, particularly
truck traffic.
      (3)   The adequacy of any proposed traffic circulation system to
accomplish these objectives shall be determined by the City Engineer who may
require additional measures for traffic control, including but not limited to
the following: directional signalization, channelization, standby turn lanes,
illumination and storage area and distribution facilities within the commercial
site to prevent back-up of vehicles on public streets.
      (4)   No area used by motor vehicles other than driveways serving as
ingress to and egress from the site shall be located within the public street
right-of-way.
      (5)   All driveways to or from the public street shall be subject to the
restrictions found in §
152.23(H)(3), unless otherwise provided in this section.
   (M)   Sign regulations.
      (1)   Signs adjacent to Interstate 90 and State Highway 74 shall meet all
applicable state and federal regulations.
      (2)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot, whether
attached or detached from the building, shall not exceed 3 square feet per
lineal foot of all lot frontage on a public right-of-way. Motor vehicle, boat,
recreational vehicle, or trailer sales and service shall be exempt from the
above provision.
      (3)   Building signs.
         (a)   Wall signs. A maximum of 1 sign per building plus 1 sign per
business may be attached to or painted on each wall face. The total sign area
per wall face shall not exceed 400 square feet or 20% of the wall surface
(whichever is less). Nameplate (address) signs up to 2 square feet are exempt.
Motor vehicle, boat, recreational vehicle, or trailer sales and service shall
be exempt from the above provision.
         (b)   Projecting signs. A maximum of 1 projecting sign, which is one
that extends perpendicularly out from a building's wall surface, is allowed for
each building or each business. Each projecting sign shall not exceed more than
100 square feet total (all faces) in area and shall not project more than 10
feet from the building wall. Projecting signs shall not exceed 20 feet in
height about the
average ground elevation along the side of the building the sign is attached.
No projecting sign shall be more than 15 feet directly above a driveway, alley
or sidewalk or less than 10 feet above a driveway, alley or sidewalk. No
projecting sign shall extend into the required setbacks or encroach into a
public right-of-way.
         (c)   Roof signs. Roof signs, erected upon or over a roof or parapet,
are only allowed by conditional use permit, but shall in no case exceed 15 feet
in height above the roof or parapet line nor higher than 30 feet above the
average ground elevation at the building line.
      (4)   Freestanding signs. A maximum of 2 detached signs are allowed on
each lot. The maximum area of all freestanding sign faces for each lot shall be
400 square feet. One sign shall not exceed 75 feet in height and the second
sign shall not exceed 25 feet in height above the average ground elevation at
the building line. No portion of the sign shall extend within half of any
required setback nearest a property line or street. Consolidation of signage is
encouraged, and if 2 or more lots share a freestanding sign, the maximum
surface shall be the sum of that allowed for each lot represented.
      (5)   Signs may be illuminated with a static graphic. When a sign is
indirectly illuminated, from a source of light separated from the sign, the
light source shall not be visible from any public right-of-way and shall not be
directed as to cause glare, either direct or indirect, on adjacent property.
Flashing illumination is prohibited.
      (6)   Electronic signs. Electronic signs whose message may be changed by
electronic process must only advertise activities conducted on the premises,
including such messages as copy, art, graphics, and or advertising of products
or services for sale on the premises. The display must not change or move more
often than once every 5 minutes. Flashing illumination is prohibited.
Additional data such as time, date, and/or temperature may also be displayed
and may be updated as applicable. Segmented messages and traveling messages are
only allowed by conditional use permit. Signs having continuous graphic
animation or video are prohibited.
      (7)   Advertising signs. Advertising signs, which are those that direct
attention to a business not on the premises, shall be prohibited, except for
those included in a sign master plan for the C-3 District, as approved by the
City Council. Specific standards shall be developed and approved for the sign
master plan, and signs erected per the sign master plan shall be in addition to
the sign limits set for each lot in the C-3 District sign regulations.
      (8)   Sign construction. All signs shall be constructed in a safe
structural manner in accordance with the governing building and electrical
codes. No sign shall be placed so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic
visibility.
      (9)   Sign maintenance. All signs, including supports and attachments,
shall be properly maintained and kept in good structural condition. The signs
shall be kept neat and clean in appearance and if painted, repainted as needed.
(Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord. 599, passed 4-24-2018; Am. Ord. 618,
passed 3-10-2020; Am. Ord. 624, passed 8-25-2020; Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-12-
2024)
§ 152.25 LIGHT INDUSTRY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The Light Industry District is intended to establish areas in which
light manufacturing and industrial activities may situate.
      (2)   The district will try to provide locations which offer adequate
essential utilities to meet the demands of light industry, provide standards
and controls which ensure a functional relationship among various types of land
uses and enable this type of activity to remain a good neighbor to adjoining
districts.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Airports, heliports, cartage and express facilities, and railroad
rights-of-way;
      (2)   Bottling establishments;
      (3)   Bus and truck storage and maintenance lots and garages;
      (4)   Electric and electronic manufacturing establishments;
      (5)   Engraving, printing, publishing, cartographic and bookbinding
establishments;
      (6)   Fuel and ice dealers, including bulk sales, storage and
distribution;
      (7)   Laundry and dry cleaning processing centers;
      (8)   Light manufacturing and processing operations, including saw mills
and cutting operations;
      (9)   Machine shops; limited operations only;
      (10)   Medical, dental and optical laboratories;
      (11)   Railway rights-of-way and loading docks, excluding freight and
classification yards;
      (12)   Storage and warehousing facilities; wholesale business and office
establishments;
      (13)   Cannabis wholesaling businesses;
      (14)   Cannabis delivery services;
      (15)   Cannabis transporter businesses;
      (16)   Indoor cannabis cultivation;
      (17)   Cannabis manufacturers;
      (18)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturers; and
      (19)   Cannabis testing facilities.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following uses shall be permitted
accessory uses:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §
152.41(L);
      (2)   Signs, as regulated in §
152.41(K); and
      (3)   Uses customarily incidental to the uses listed in divisions (B) and
(D) of this section.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit as provided in §
152.43:
      (1)   Automobile wrecking and/or junk yards, provided the use is
conducted within a building or the premises on which the business is conducted
is entirely enclosed within a substantial fence, except for gates, not less
than 8 feet in height and having an opacity of 100% or equivalent screening
barrier approved by the City Council;
      (2)   Extracting, processing or storing sand, gravel, stone or other raw
materials subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Bonding. The person securing a temporary excavation permit must
present adequate proof of bonding to the city in the form of a performance
bond, sufficient in value to cover the expense of completing the development
plan or to bring the portion of the completed project to a safe grade and
elevation to be healthful and safe to the general public and to provide safe
and adequate drainage of the site;
         (b)   Future use of the lands. The persons who apply for a temporary
excavation permit must submit a plan of intent as to the future use of the
property being excavated; the development plans showing proposed elevations,
drainage, access routes to be used in hauling to and from the site; daily
operational hours; and the projected period of excavation;
         (c)   Safety precautions.
            1.   If, during the excavation work, the person excavating must
create a condition of grade or drainage not in the interest of health or
safety, that person must immediately correct the dangerous situation created
and fence the area from the general public during the period of danger.
            2.   All trenching and excavation shall be done in accordance with
the safety specifications recommended by the State Department of Labor and
Industry and the Manual of Accident Prevention in Construction, Association of
General Contractors of America, as now promulgated or revised; and
         (d)   Temporary excavation district. The use of land for the major
removal, processing and/or storage of topsoil, sand or gravel and other
material from the land is not permitted in any zone unless temporary excavation
permission has been granted by the Council following favorable recommendation
by the City Planning Commission. Permits shall be issued for a maximum period
of 1 year and shall be subject to review and rehearing at that time.
      (3)   Uses similar to those listed in division (B) above, provided that
the nature of operation is in keeping with the character and purpose of an I-
1 District.
   (E)   Height, yard setback and lot area and coverage requirements. The
height, yard setback and lot area and coverage requirements shall be those set
forth in §
152.40.
   (F)   Performance standards. The performance standards for the I-1 District
shall be those stated in §
152.22(F).
   (G)   Regulations on screening, landscaping, lighting, storage and outdoor
displays. The regulations for screening, landscaping, lighting, storage and
outdoor displays shall be those stated in §
152.23(G).
(1987 Code, § 702.10) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-
12-2024)
§ 152.26 GENERAL INDUSTRY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The General Industry District will try to provide areas suitable
for the location of general industrial activities by allowing adequate loading
facilities with access to thoroughfares and railways, ensuring necessary
expansion space within district boundaries, and providing effective controls
for nuisance and pollution.
      (2)   Industrial development will be encouraged in a compact and orderly
manner so that a wholesome relationship with other land use areas within the
city is established.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses shall be permitted:
      (1)   Adult use/principal businesses;
      (2)   Appliance assembly and warehousing;
      (3)   Building materials production, paper mills (including storage
facilities), lumber companies and yard;
      (4)   Bulk gasoline and oil stations and distributing plants;
      (5)   Canning factories and creameries, food processing plants including
smoking and curing operations, dairy operations and produce companies;
      (6)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (7)   Contractors’ offices, shops, yards and storage facilities for
plumbing, heating, glazing, painting, paperhanging, roofing, ventilating, air
conditioning, lumber, masonry, electrical and refrigeration industries;
      (8)   Cooperatives;
      (9)   Freight terminals and classification yards;
      (10)   Fuel and ice sales and storage facilities, including bulk-fuel
storage and warehouses;
      (11)   Garages for storage, repair and servicing of motor vehicles and
farm implements;
      (12)   Grain elevators, milling and processing activities, feed
companies;
      (13)   Highway maintenance shops and yards, public utility maintenance
shops and yards;
      (14)   Machine shops;
      (15)   Monument works, cutting, grinding and polishing operations;
      (16)   Poultry and animal rendering plants, processing and treatment
yards;
      (17)   Railroad rights-of-way, including loading docks, warehouses and
similar uses;
      (18)   Sewage disposal plants, including secondary treatment operations;
      (19)   Cannabis wholesaling businesses;
      (20)   Cannabis delivery services;
      (21)   Cannabis transporter businesses;
      (22)   Indoor cannabis cultivation;
      (23)   Cannabis manufacturers;
      (24)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturers; and
      (25)   Cannabis testing facilities.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses:
      (1)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §
152.17(L);
      (2)   Signs as regulated in §
152.41(K); and
      (3)   Uses customarily incidental to the uses listed in divisions (B) and
(D) of this section. All accessory uses shall be on the same lot as the
principal use.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be permitted subject to the
issuance of a conditional use permit as provided in §
152.43:
      (1)   Restaurants and service establishments of an essential or
convenience nature, whose principal function is serving the employees within
the Industrial District, provided the uses so allowed shall be consistent with
the purpose and operation of a General Industry District; and
      (2)   Any use listed in division (B) above, or use of a similar nature or
compatible nature, which proposes to locate in any of those areas within the
General Industry District that have been designated as an Industrial Park by
the Council and Planning Commission.
   (E)   Height, yard setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements. The
height, yard setbacks and lot area and coverage requirements shall be those set
forth in §
152.40.
   (F)   Performance standards. Performance standards shall be required in the
General Industry District. The standards shall be those set forth in §
152.22(F), except that measurements for nuisance characteristics shall be taken
from the district boundary line rather than the property line of any particular
use.
   (G)   Regulations on screening, landscaping, lighting, storage and outdoor
displays. The regulations on screening, landscaping, lighting, storage and
outdoor displays shall be those set forth in §
152.23(G).
(1987 Code, § 702.11) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012; Am. Ord. 664, passed 11-
12-2024)
§ 152.27 ADULT USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide the opportunity for
operation and establishment of adult land uses while providing controls that
limit negative impacts of adult uses on residential and commercial areas.
   (B)   General. Adult use as defined in this chapter shall be subject to the
following general provisions:
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as
it may be amended from time to time, are not permitted and are prohibited;
      (2)   Principal adult uses, shall be prohibited from locating in any
building which is also utilized for residential purposes;
      (3)   An adult use, which does not qualify as an accessory use, shall be
classified as an adult use/principal; and
      (4)   Zoning controls and district text application: so as to provide
specific opportunity for adult uses to exist within the City of St. Charles, an
analysis of the existing city ordinance text and map has been conducted. It was
determined that the I-2 General Industry District provided the most appropriate
zone to accommodate adult uses classified as principal activity. Only
amendments to the I-2 text are, therefore, proposed to accommodate adult uses/
principal. Principal adult uses are permitted only in the I-2 zoned districts.
   (C)   Adult use/principal.
      (1)   Adult use/principal activities shall be located at least 1,000
lineal feet, as measured in a straight line from the building upon which the
adult use/principal is located to the property line of the following:
         (a)   Residentially zoned property;
         (b)   Agricultural land located in the neighboring township or in the
city that is designated in the Comprehensive Plan for residential use;
         (c)   A licensed day care center;
         (d)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, middle, junior high or senior high school;
         (e)   A public library;
         (f)   A public park;
         (g)   A church;
         (h)   Amusement places such as roller rinks, dance halls and bowling
alleys; and/or
         (i)   Liquor sales.
      (2)   Adult use/principal activities shall be located at least 1,000
lineal feet apart as measured from one another.
      (3)   Adult use/principal activity is a separate use and no 2 adult use/
principal activities shall be located in the same building or upon the same
property and each use shall be subject to the above.
      (4)   Adult use/principal activities shall adhere to the following
signing regulations:
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business, which is being conducted;
         (b)   Sign messages shall not contain material classified as
advertising; and
         (c)   Sign messages shall comply with the requirements of size and
number for the district in which they are located.
      (5)   Adult use/principal activities shall be prohibited in
establishments where liquor is served.
      (6)   Adult use/principal activities shall be prohibited at any place or
event where minors are permitted.
   (D)   Adult use/accessory.
      (1)   Adult use/accessory activities are permitted only in the C-1 or C-
2 zoned districts.
      (2)   Adult use/accessory activities shall comprise no more than 10% of
the floor area of the establishment in which it is located or shall comprise an
area no greater than 100 square feet of floor area in which it is located,
whichever is smaller.
      (3)   Adult/accessory activities shall be restricted and prohibited from
access to minors by the physical separation of these items from areas of
general public access:
         (a)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation;
         (b)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall be covered with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any
material other than the publication title; and
         (c)   Other use. Adult use/accessory activities not specifically cited
shall comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the
Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be prohibited from both
internal and external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
      (5)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be prohibited in
establishments where liquor is served.
      (6)   Adult use/accessory activities shall be prohibited at any public
show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or
exhibition presented to the general public where minors are admitted.
(1987 Code, § 702.12) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 152.28 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   Zoning map. A zoning map shall be maintained which shall show the
boundaries of the districts established by this chapter.
   (B)   Amendments. All approved amendments shall be added to, and made a
permanent part of the zoning map.
(1987 Code, § 702.13) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012)
§ 152.29 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to prevent competition with business
districts and to provide a means through the establishment of specific
standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (2)   In addition, this section is intended to provide a mechanism
enabling the distinction between permitted home occupations and special or
customarily more sensitive home occupations so that permitted home occupations
may be allowed through an administrative process rather than a legislative
hearing process.
   (B)   Application. Subject to the nonconforming use provision of this
section, all occupants conducted in the home shall comply with the provisions
of this section.
   (C)   Procedures and permits.
      (1)   Permitted home occupation.
         (a)   Any home occupation as defined in this chapter shall require a
home occupation permit.
         (b)   These permits shall be issued subject to the conditions of this
section, other applicable city ordinances and state law.
         (c)   This permit may be issued by the Zoning Administrator or his or
her agent based upon proof of compliance with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Special home occupation. Any home occupation which does not meet
the specific requirements for a permitted home occupation as defined in this
division shall require a special home occupation permit which shall be applied
for, reviewed and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of §
152.46.
         (a)   Declaration of conditions. The City Council may impose
conditions on the granting of a special home occupation permit as may be
necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this section.
         (b)   Effect of permit. A special home occupation permit may be issued
for a period of 1 year after which may be reissued for periods of up to 3 years
each. Each application for permit renewal shall, however, be processed in
accordance with the procedural requirements of the initial special home
occupation permit.
      (3)   Transferability. Permits shall not run with the land and shall not
be transferable.
      (4)   Lapse of special home occupation permit by non-use.
         (a)   Whenever within 1 year after granting a permit the use as
permitted by the permit shall not have been initiated, then the permit shall
become null and void unless a petition for extension of time in which to
complete the work has been granted by the City Council.
         (b)   An extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
permit.
         (c)   There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The
request for extension shall state fact showing a good faith attempt to initiate
the use.
         (d)   The petition shall be presented to the City Council for a
decision.
      (5)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application for a permit has been
considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for a permit
affecting substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the
City Council for at least 6 months from the date of its denial unless a
decision to reconsider the matter is made by not less than 4/5 vote of the full
City Council.
      (6)   Renewal of permits.
         (a)   An applicant shall not have a vested right to a permit renewal
by reason of having obtained a previous permit.
         (b)   In applying for and accepting a permit, the permit holder agrees
that his or her monetary investment in the home occupation will be fully
amortized over the life of the permit and that a permit renewal will not be
needed to amortize the investment.
         (c)   Each application for the renewal of a permit will be considered
as a new permit without taking into consideration that a previous permit has
been granted.
         (d)   The previous granting or renewal of a permit shall not
constitute a precedent or basis for the renewal of a permit.
   (D)   Requirements; general provisions. All home occupations shall comply
with the following general provisions and according to definition, the
applicable requirement provisions.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   No home occupation shall produce light glare, noise, odor or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property.
         (b)   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
         (c)   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises, should not change the residential
character thereof and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
         (d)   No home occupation shall require internal or external
alterations or involve construction features not customarily found in dwellings
except where required to comply with local and state fire and police
recommendations.
         (e)   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials
used in the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in the home
occupation may be parked on the site.
         (f)   The home occupation shall meet all applicable fire and building
codes.
         (g)   There shall be no exterior display or exterior signs or interior
display or interior signs which are visible from outside the dwelling.
         (h)   All home occupations shall comply with the provisions of the
City Nuisance Ordinance.
         (i)   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
         (j)   The City Council shall be allowed to establish additional
requirements with the intent to safeguard the health and welfare of the
surrounding neighborhoods.
      (2)   Requirements; permitted home occupations.
         (a)   No person other than those who customarily reside on the
premises shall be employed.
         (b)   All permitted home occupations shall be conducted entirely
within the principal dwelling or existing accessory buildings.
         (c)   Permitted home occupations shall not create a parking demand in
excess of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway.
         (d)   Examples of permitted home occupations include: art studio,
dressmaking, secretarial services, professional offices and teaching with
musical, dancing and other instructions, which consist of more than 1 pupil at
a time. None of the above shall service more than 1 person at a given time.
         (e)   The home occupation shall not involve any of the following:
repair service or manufacturing which requires equipment other than found in a
dwelling; teaching which customarily consists of more than 1 pupil at a time;
over-the-counter sale of merchandise produced off the premises, except for
those brand name products that are not marketed and sold in a wholesale or
retail outlet.
      (3)   Requirements; special home occupation.
         (a)   No person other than a resident shall conduct the home
occupation, except where the applicant can satisfactorily prove unusual or
unique conditions or need for nonresidential assistance and that this exception
would not compromise the intent of this chapter.
         (b)   Examples of special home occupations include: barber and beauty
services, photography studio, group lessons, saw sharpening, small appliance
and small engine repair and the like.
         (c)   The home occupations may involve any of the following: stock-in-
trade incidental to the performance of the service, repair or manufacturing
which requires equipment other than customarily found in a home, the teaching
with musical, dancing and other instruction of more than 1 pupil at a time.
         (d)   Special home occupations may be allowed to accommodate their
parking demand through utilization of on-street parking. In cases where on-
street parking facilities are necessary, however, the City Council shall
maintain the right to establish the maximum number of on-street spaces
permitted and increase or decrease that maximum number when and where changing
conditions require additional review.
   (E)   Non-conforming use.
      (1)   Existing home occupations lawfully existing on the date of this
ordinance may continue for 2 years as non-conforming uses, after which time
they will be brought into conformity with the provisions of this division.
      (2)   They shall, however, be required to obtain permits for their
continued operation.
      (3)   Any existing home occupation that is discontinued for a period of
more than 30 days, or is in violation of the ordinance provisions under which
it was initially established, shall be brought into conformity with the
provisions of this subdivision.
   (F)   Inspection. The applicant, upon making application, grants to the city
upon issuing any home occupation permit the right to inspect the premises in
which the occupation is being conducted to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this division or any conditions additionally imposed.
(1987 Code, § 702.14) (Am. Ord. 554, passed 6-26-2012)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.40 DISTRICT PROVISIONS AND DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Note 1. PUD provisions are not listed here due to the unique
characteristics of a PUD. See §
152.21 for more information.
   (B)   Note 2.
      (1)   Where there exists a pattern of use in an area of less than the
minimum setback, the Planning Commission on its own motion may vary the setback
requirements for new structures immediately adjacent to or surrounded by the
non-conforming structures.
      (2)   This variance shall be allowed only where the variance will not
create a substantial detriment to uses or property rights of persons in the
immediate area.
   (C)   Note 3. The provisions in §
152.41 apply to all districts.
   (D)   Note 4. Corner setbacks within an R-1 Single-Family District shall be
25 feet from the front street right-of-way line and 20 feet from the side
street right-of-way line.
(1987 Code, § 703.01) (Am. Ord. 435, passed 6-9-1998)
§ 152.41 REGULATIONS; GENERAL.
   (A)   Scope of regulations.
      (1)   Except as may otherwise be provided in §
152.42 all buildings erected, all uses of land or buildings established, all
structural alterations or relocation of existing buildings occurring, and all
enlargements or additions to existing uses occurring after September 8, 1970,
shall be subject to this section.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall not approve any application for a
building permit, certificate of zoning compliance or other permit or license,
and city departments shall not issue any permits or licenses if the permit,
certificate or license authorizes either of the following:
         (a)   A use contrary to this chapter; or
         (b)   The erection, moving, alteration, enlargement or occupancy of a
building contrary to this chapter.
      (3)   No lot area shall be reduced or diminished so that the yards or
other open spaces shall be smaller than those prescribed by this chapter, nor
shall the population density be increased in any manner except in conformity
with these regulations unless the City Council grants a variance.
   (B)   Erection of more than 1 principal structure on a lot. In any district,
more than 1 structure housing a permitted or permissible principal use may be
erected on a single lot, provided that this chapter's requirements are met for
each structures as though it were on an individual lot.
   (C)   Accessory buildings.
      (1)   In case an accessory building is attached to the main building, it
shall be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with this chapter's requirements applicable to the main building.
      (2)   An accessory building, not attached to and made a part of the main
building, shall not be closer than 5 feet to the main building.
      (3)   (a)   A detached accessory building shall not be located in any
required front yard. Detached accessory buildings in residential districts
shall not exceed 1 story or 16 feet in height and shall not be greater than
1,000 square feet in area and cannot occupy more than 10% of the lot area. The
total square footage of all detached accessory structures shall not be equal to
or greater than the footprint of the principal structure.
         (b)   A distance of open space between the principal building and the
detached accessory building plus the distance of open space between the
detached accessory building and the side yard must be at least 10 feet;
however, a detached accessory building may not be built nearer than 5 feet to
the principal structure nor nearer than 2-1/2 feet to the side or rear lot
line.
         (c)   A detached accessory building opening onto an alley shall be set
back at least 20 feet from the alley right of way; if the detached accessory
building is located off an alley but does not open into the alley, a distance
of at least 2-1/2 feet shall be maintained between the building and the alley
right of way, except that a 2 stall garage may be used jointly and solely by
the families living on 2 adjacent lots and may be built so as to place 1 stall
on each side or rear lot line, provided that the 2 stalls are separated by a
fire wall.
         (d)   No more than a maximum of 3 accessory structures shall exist on
a property in any residential zone.
         (e)   Cloth, canvas, plastic sheeting, tarps, or any material used for
agricultural purposes are not allowed as primary building material on any
accessory structure in any residential zone. This limitation shall not apply to
a greenhouse. Pre-engineered structures meeting all applicable Minnesota
Building Code such as carports are permitted.
         (f)   Semi-trailer, railroad or similar type storage containers are
prohibited in any residential district as a permitted accessory structure.
      (4)   Accessory buildings on any corner lot in an R-1, R-1M, R-2 or R-
3 District shall be at least 6 feet from the rear lot line when the rear lot
line of the corner lot is the same as the side lot line of an adjoining lot in
an R-1, R-1M, R-2 or R-3 District.
      (5)   Accessory buildings for single-family attached dwellings may be
attached to other buildings in the lot's building area and/or in the rear yard
providing the applicant records a covenant and deed restriction on all
properties which will abut the common lot line (0-lot line). These covenants
and deed restriction shall provide the following:
         (a)   Access to the abutting property for the adjacent property owner
and/or the adjacent property owner's representative for the purpose of
constructing, reconstructing, repairing and maintaining either side on the
total property;
         (b)   Necessary encroachments for footings and eaves for the building;
and
         (c)   Restrictions to limit changes of color, material and design of
the accessory building to insure it is compatible with the attached building.
      (6)   In any zoning district, no accessory building or structure shall be
erected or constructed prior to the erection or construction of the principal
or main building or structure, but may be erected simultaneously. Only in the
case whereby a vacant lot is purchased by an adjoining land owner, may an
accessory building be erected or constructed alone given the lots are surveyed
by a registered land surveyor and recorded as one property description and any
accessory structure meets all setback, lot coverage, and height provisions.
      (7)   All accessory buildings located in the R-1, R-1M, R-2, or R-
3 districts shall be made of materials customarily found in residential zones.
Accessory buildings of less than 120 square feet shall use appropriate
materials and design features clearly customary and typical of the character of
buildings or structures in the district in which it is located as determined by
the Zoning Administrator or his designee.
   (D)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than 1 foot rise or
fall in 7 feet of horizontal distance from the established street elevation at
the property line, 1 story in addition to the number permitted in the district
in which the lot is situated shall be permitted on the downhill side of any
building.
      (2)   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased by 100% when applied to the following: chimneys, cooling towers,
elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, water towers, stacks, storage
lofts, tanks, ornamental towers and spires, wireless towers or necessary
mechanical appurtenances usually required to be placed above the roof level and
not intended for human occupancy.
   (E)   Yard regulations. The following requirements qualify and supplement
the district regulations appearing elsewhere in this chapter. Measurements
shall be taken from the point of the wall of the building nearest to the lot
line in question, subject to the following qualifications.
      (1)   Every part of a required yard or court shall be open from its
lowest point to the sky, unobstructed except for the ordinary projections of
window wells above the bottom of the yard or court and except for the
projections of sills, belt courses, cornices and ornamental features not to
exceed 18 inches.
      (2)   Open or lattice-enclosed fire escapes, fireproof outside stairways
and balconies opening upon fire towers projecting into a yard not more than 2
feet or into a court not more than 3-1/2 feet shall be permitted, where so
placed to not obstruct light and ventilation.
      (3)   A yard, court or other open space provided about any building for
the purpose of complying with this chapter shall not be used additionally as a
yard, court or other open space for another building.
      (4)   The setback requirements shall be observed on each street side of a
corner lot, however, the buildable width of a lot shall not be reduced to less
than 30 feet.
      (5)   A total setback requirement of 300 feet from all schools, churches,
hospitals or any public meeting place having a seating capacity of 50 or more
persons is mandatory for all land uses in which there are highly explosive or
flammable materials in quantity, such as gas stations, bulk fuel or oil dealers
and similar operations.
      (6)   Where a lot is to be occupied for permitted uses without buildings
or structures on it, the required side yards and front yards shall be provided
and maintained between the use and the respective lot lines, provided side and
rear yards shall not be required on lots without buildings or structures when
used for garden purposes or public playgrounds.
      (7)   The following shall not be considered obstructions.
         (a)   In front yards.
            1.   One-story bay windows projecting 3 feet or less into the yard;
overhanging eaves and gutters projecting 2-1/2 feet or less into the yard.
            2.   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the
required front yard up to 6 feet, if the landing place or porch has its floor
no higher than the entrance floor of the building.
            3.   An open railing no higher than 3 feet may be placed around the
place.
            4.   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any
wall, fence or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth, which may cause
danger to traffic on a street or public road by obscuring the view.
            5.   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be
provided on both streets.
         (b)   In side yards. Overhanging eaves and gutters projecting into the
yard for a distance of 2 inches per foot of required side yard.
         (c)   In rear yards.
            1.   Enclosed, attached or detached off-street parking spaces; open
off-street parking spaces; accessory structures, tool rooms and similar
buildings or structures for domestic storage; balconies; breezeways and open
porches; 1-story bay windows projecting 2-1/2 feet or less into the yard; and
overhanging eaves and gutters projecting 2-1/2 feet or less into the yard.
            2.   In determining the depth of rear yard for any building where
the rear yard opens into an alley, 1/2 the width of the alley, but not
exceeding 10 feet, may be considered as a portion of the rear yard.
   (F)   Vision clearance.
      (1)   Fences, walls or accessory structures in front yard:
         (a)   In any residential district, no fence, wall, accessory structure
or shrub planting shall be over 36 inches in height within 20 feet of any
street corner, except for trees with branches and foliage removed a height of 8
feet above the ground, so as to interfere with traffic visibility across the
corner; and
         (b)   No fence, wall, accessory structure or shrub planting shall be
over 36 inches in height with an opacity over 50%, but may be 48 inches in
height with an opacity under 50% (e.g., wrought iron, chain link, split-rail,
vinyl, or board), within 25 feet of the front property line.
      (2)   Fences, walls or accessory structures in side and rear yard:
         (a)   In any residential district, no fence, wall or accessory
structure, other than a retaining wall, shall be over 6 feet in height along
the side or rear lot line; and
         (b)   The side lot line will be considered that area of a lot which
extends along the side line of the lot from the rear property line to a point
25 feet from the front property line.
      (3)   Fences may be used to locate property lines with the required
front, side and rear yards within a residential district.
      (4)   No fence, wall, shrub planting or accessory structure shall be
erected within a public easement and/or right-of-way.
      (5)   The finished side shall face the abutting property or street right-
of-way.
      (6)   Fences shall not be constructed of chicken wire, welded wire,
pallets, barbed wire, snow fence, branches, animal gates, farm fence materials
or materials originally intended for other purposes, unless approved by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   A certificate of survey may be required if property lines cannot be
located as the city does not have licensed surveyors on staff to perform this
service. If the Zoning Administrator, in his or her sole judgement and
discretion, notifies the property owner/applicant that a survey is required, no
permit will be issued until a survey is provided to the city by the owner/
applicant as signed by a licensed surveyor, and that such survey is at the
property owner's/applicant’s sole cost and expense. Further, it is the
responsibility of the property owner/applicant to contact the surveyor and
arrange the survey.
      (8)   All fences shall have at least 1 external access gate.
      (9)   The permit fee shall be as set by ordinance of the City Council.
The permit fee shall he paid at the time of application.
      (10)   A permit is required for all fences within any residential
district.
      (11)   All fences shall be properly maintained with respect to appearance
and safety.
   (G)   Street closures. When any street, alley or other public way is vacated
by official city action, the zoning district adjoining each side of the street,
alley or public way shall be extended automatically to the center of the
vacation, and all area included in the vacation shall then be subject to all
appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
   (H)   Areas under water.
      (1)   All areas within the corporate limits of the city which are under
water and not shown as included within any district shall be subject to all of
the regulations of the district which immediately adjoins the water area.
      (2)   If the water area adjoins 2 or more zones, the boundaries of each
zone shall be construed to extend into the water in a straight line until they
meet the other district at a half-way point.
   (I)   Essential services. Essential services shall be permitted in any
district as authorized and regulated by law, because the erection,
construction, alteration and maintenance of essential services are exempt from
this chapter.
   (J)   Structures to have access. Every building erected or moved shall be on
a lot adjacent to a public street, or with access to an approved private
street, and all structures shall be located on lots that are safe and
convenient access for serving, fire protection and required off-street parking
are provided.
   (K)   Sign regulations. All signs erected or maintained, except official,
public traffic and street signs, shall conform with the following regulations.
      (1)   General provisions for all districts.
         (a)   Signs shall not be permitted within the public right-of-way or
easements.
         (b)   Flashing or rotating signs resembling emergency vehicles shall
not be permitted.
         (c)   Signs resembling an official marker erected by a governmental
agency or displaying the words “stop” or “danger” shall not be permitted.
         (d)   Signs shall not be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air or access to any
building or structure.
         (e)   When the Council or Zoning Administrator notices a sign or
property owner that a sign is rotted, unsafe or unsightly, the owner of sign or
owner of property thereunder shall remove or repair the sign.
         (f)   The owner, lessee or manager of any ground sign and the owner of
the property on which the sign is located shall keep grass, weeds and other
growth cut, and debris and rubbish removed from the lot on which the sign is
located.
         (g)   Political signs may be permitted for a period of not more than
60 days before and 10 days after an election.
      (2)   Signs may be erected in an R-1, R-1M, R-2 or R-3 District subject
to the following provisions.
         (a)   A nameplate sign identifying the owner or occupant of a building
or dwelling unit, provided the sign does not exceed 2 square feet in surface
area. These signs may be illuminated.
         (b)   A sign pertaining to the lease or sale of the building or
property, provided the sign does not exceed 4 square feet in surface area. This
sign shall not be illuminated.
         (c)   A temporary sign identifying an engineer, architect, contractor
or product engaged or used in the construction of a building, provided the sign
does not exceed 4 square feet in surface area and is removed prior to the
occupancy of the building. This sign shall not be illuminated.
         (d)   One identification sign not to exceed 24 square feet in surface
area displaying location information for churches, schools, hospitals, nursing
homes, clubs, offices, libraries or similar institutions. This sign may be
illuminated.
         (e)   Directional signs not exceeding 2 square feet in surface area
displaying directional information for churches, schools, hospitals, nursing
homes, clubs, libraries or similar institutions, excluding office or commercial
establishments, provided that each institution shall be limited to 1 sign per
thoroughfare approach. This sign shall not be illuminated.
         (f)   Public street identification signs, traffic signs and
directional signs in any parking area where the signs are necessary for the
orderly movement of traffic.
         (g)   Identification signs not to exceed 125 square feet per building
elevation may be placed on any public school. The signs may be illuminated.
      (3)   Signs may be erected in a C-1 or C-2 District subject to the
following provisions.
         (a)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not
exceed 3 square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage area, or 75 square feet in
area, whichever is greater. Signs may be illuminated.
         (b)   Advertising sign structures shall be limited to 1 for a lot of
100 foot frontage or less and to only 1 for each additional 100 feet of lot
frontage.
         (c)   A like advertising structure may not contain more than 2 signs
per facing, nor exceed 55 feet in total length.
         (d)   No advertising signs may be erected within 100 feet of an
adjacent residential district.
         (e)   For corner lots, the frontage used to determine allowable sign
area shall be the frontage of the main entrance to the business.
         (f)   No sign shall project higher than 6 feet above the height of the
building, or 32 feet above the average grade at the building line, whichever is
greater.
         (g)   Signs painted on a building shall be governed by the square
footage limitations specified above. These signs shall be maintained in good
condition and shall be repainted, removed or painted out when, in the opinion
of the Council or Zoning Administrator, they are not so maintained.
         (h)   When a sign is illuminated, the source of light shall not be
visible from any public right-of-way, and the light shall be directed away from
any residential district.
         (i)   No signs shall project more than 6 feet perpendicular to a
building.
      (4)   Signs may be erected in an A-1 District subject to the following
provisions.
         (a)   One identification sign not to exceed 24 square feet in surface
area displaying directional or identifying information for public and
commercial recreational facilities, including but not limited to parks, trails,
pools and community centers. This sign shall not be illuminated.
         (b)   Directional signs, not exceeding 2 square feet in surface area
displaying directional information for public facilities, provided that each
use shall be limited to 1 sign per thoroughfare approach. This sign shall not
be illuminated.
         (c)   Public street identification signs, traffic signs and
directional signs in any parking area where these signs are necessary for the
orderly movement of traffic.
      (5)   Signs may be erected in an I-1 and 1-2 District subject to the
following provisions.
         (a)   No advertising signs shall be permitted.
         (b)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not
exceed 3 square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage or 20% of the building
frontage area or 300 square feet in area, whichever is greater. These signs may
be illuminated.
   (L)   Off-street parking and loading-unloading space requirements.
      (1)   Parking space requirements. The required parking and loading spaces
shall be provided on the premises of each use. Each parking space shall contain
a minimum area of not less than 300 square feet including access drives, and a
width of not less than 9 feet, and a depth of not less than 20 feet. The
minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for various uses shall be
as follows, except for the Central Business District, where all non-residential
uses shall be exempt from the following parking requirements:
         (a)   Apartments: 1-1/2 parking spaces for each apartment, except
housing for the elderly projects, which shall provide 3/10 parking space for
each dwelling unit, and any dwelling unit in the CBD district which requires
one designated parking stall per unit;
         (b)   Assembly or exhibition hall, armory, auditoriums, theater,
sports arena: one parking space for each 4 seats, based upon design capacity;
         (c)   Automobile service station: 4 parking spaces for each service
stall plus 2 parking spaces; these parking spaces are in addition to the gas
pump service area;
         (d)   Bowling alley: 5 parking spaces for each bowling lane;
         (e)   Churches: 1 parking space for each 4 seats, based on the design
capacity of the main seating area;
         (f)   Convalescent or nursing home: 1 parking space for each 4 beds;
         (g)   Fast food restaurant: 1 space per 75 square feet of floor area;
         (h)   Elementary school: 2 parking spaces for each classroom;
         (i)   Golf courses and clubhouses, country club, swimming club, tennis
club, public swimming pool: 20 spaces for each 500 square feet of floor area in
the principal structure;
         (j)   Golf courses (miniature), archery range, gold driving range: 10
parking spaces;
         (k)   Hospitals: 1 parking space for each 3 beds;
         (l)   Junior and senior high school: 1 parking space for each
classroom plus 1 parking space for each 10 students, based on design capacity;
         (m)   Manufacturing or processing plant: 1 off-street parking space
for each 2 employees on the major shift, or 1 off-street parking space for each
1,000 square feet of gross floor area within the building, whichever greater,
plus 1 space for all company motor vehicles customarily kept on the premises;
         (n)   Mobile home park: 1-1/4 parking spaces per mobile home berth;
         (o)   Mobile home stand (single): 1 parking space per unit;
         (p)   Motel or motor hotel: 1 parking space for each rental unit or
suite;
         (q)   Office building: 1 parking space for each 500 square feet of
floor area;
         (r)   One and 2-family dwelling: 1 parking space per unit; no garage
shall be converted into living space unless other acceptable on-site parking
space is provided;
         (s)   Professional offices, medical and dental clinics, animal
hospital: 1 parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area;
         (t)   Public administration building, community center, public
library, museum, art gallery, post office and other public service buildings: 1
parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area in the principal
structure;
         (u)   Research, experimental or testing stations: parking space for
each employee on the major shift or 1 parking space for each 500 square feet of
gross floor area within the building, whichever is greater;
         (v)   Restaurant, café, night club, tavern, bar and lounges: 1 parking
space for each 50 square feet of floor area, or 1 space per 3 seats, whichever
is greater;
         (w)   Retail sales and service establishments: 1 parking space for
each 250 square feet of floor area (minimum of 5 spaces);
         (x)   Sales (auto, trailer, marine and boat, implement, garden supply,
building materials, auto repair): 1 parking space for each 500 square feet of
floor area;
         (y)   Shopping center: where several commercial uses are grouped
together according to a general development plan, on-site automobile parking
shall be provided in a ratio of not less than 3 square feet of gross parking
area for each 1 square foot of gross floor area; separate on-site space shall
be provided for loading and unloading; and
         (z)   Storage, wholesale, warehouse establishments: 1 parking space
per 5,000 square foot of floor area; mixed use structures shall be based on
other use requirements.
      (2)   Off-street loading design and maintenance.
         (a)   Location. All required loading or unloading into or out of
trucks in excess of 3/4 ton capacity, or railroad cars, shall be conducted at
facilities specifically designed for that purpose. These facilities shall be
located upon the zoning lot of the principal use requiring them. All berths
beyond 1 shall be separate from areas used for off-street parking.
         (b)   Access. Each required off-street loading berth shall be designed
as to avoid undue interference with other vehicular or rail access or use of
public streets, alleys or other public transport systems.
         (c)   Surfacing. All off-street loading facilities, including loading
berths and maneuvering areas, shall be surfaced with a hard, all weather, dust-
free durable surfacing material and shall be well drained and landscaped and
shall be maintained in a sightly and well-kept condition.
         (d)   Landscaping and screening. All berths shall be screened from
view from the property street frontage and/or from the zoning district boundary
when the adjacent property or property across the street frontage or side
street frontage is zoned for residential purposes. The screening shall be
accomplished by a solid wall not less than 8 feet in height and shall be so
designed as to be architecturally harmonious with the principal structure.
Screen planting may be substituted for the prescribed wall; however, plantings
must not be less than 2-1/2 inches in diameter and of a type so as to permit a
minimum of 90% opacity during all months of the year.
         (e)   Design. Fifty percent of the required number of truck berths
shall be 50 feet in length, 12 feet in width and 15 feet in height. All loading
areas shall consist of a maneuvering area in addition to the berth and shall
not use any portion of the site containing parking stalls. Maneuvering areas
shall be sized to permit the backing of truck tractors and coupled trailers
into a berth, without blocking the use of other berths or drive or maneuvering
areas.
         (f)   Required loading areas:
            1.   Space for loading and unloading goods, supplies and services
shall be provided in addition to required off-street parking spaces and shall
be sufficient to meet the requirements of each use.
            2.   The following uses shall observe required loading and
unloading spaces as indicated.
Use Required Spaces
Use                                    Required Spaces
Motels, hotels, lodging and rooming    One for each structure over 20,000
houses, private clubs and lodges       square feet gross floor area
                                       One space for the first 10,000 square
Commercial uses except where otherwise feet of gross floor area and 1 space for
specified                              each additional 50,000 square feet of
                                       gross floor area
Auditorium, stadium, gymnasium,
community center, religious            One for each structure over 100,000
institution, area school (private or   square feet gross floor
public)
Office building and professional       One space for buildings with 30,000 to
offices (other than doctor and         100,000 square feet gross floor area and
dentists); banks                       1 space for each additional 100,000
                                       square feet gross floor area
Restaurants and other food-dispensing  One for each structure with 10,000
establishments except drive-in         square feet of gross floor area
restaurants
Furniture, automobile, boat, appliance One space plus 1 additional space for
sales                                  each 25,000 square feet of gross floor
                                       area
Hospitals, rest homes, nursing homes   One space plus 1 additional space for
and similar institutions               each 25,000 square feet of gross floor
                                       area
Bowling alleys                         One space for each structure over 20,000
                                       square feet of gross floor area
Manufacturing and research,            One space for each 50,000 square feet of
experimental or testing stations       gross floor area
 
   (M)   Minimum mobile home park requirements.
      (1)   Minimum density and area requirements.
         (a)   Minimum area for a mobile home park shall be 5 acres and shall
not be less the 150 feet in width.
         (b)   A minimum of 500 square feet per mobile home shall be provided
for definable play areas and open space within the mobile home park. Areas of
open space and/or play areas shall not be included within any setback nor shall
they include any areas of less than 20 feet in length or width.
         (c)   The minimum lot area per unit shall be 6,500 square feet,
excluding private drives, parking spaces and street rights of way.
      (2)   Lot coverage and setback requirements.
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage for mobile home parks shall be 25%.
         (b)   Minimum distance between units shall be not less than 20 feet,
or the sum of the heights of the 2 units, whichever is greater; the point of
measurement is a straight line between the closest points of the units being
measured.
         (c)   When a mobile home park is adjacent to a single-family
residential district, the minimum setback between the street right-of-way line
or property line the adjacent mobile home park use side shall be 30 feet. This
setback area shall act as a buffer zone and shall be landscaped according to a
plan submitted at the time of application. The plan shall show the type of
planting material, size and planting schedule.
         (d)   Street access shall not be permitted onto residential streets in
mobile home parks.
      (3)   General internal mobile home park development requirements.
         (a)   The minimum front yard setback from the mobile home unit to the
street line shall be 15 feet.
         (b)   The mobile home stand shall be at an elevation, distance and
angle relative to the street and driveway so that placement and removal of the
mobile home with a car, tow truck or other customary moving equipment is
practical.
            1.   The mobile home stand shall have a longitudinal grade of less
than 4% and transverse crown or grade to provide adequate surface drainage.
            2.   The stand shall be compacted and surfaced with a material
which will prevent the growth of vegetation while supporting the maximum
anticipated loads during all seasons.
         (c)   The entire mobile home park shall be landscaped (excluding hard
surfaced areas) and 1 shade tree with a minimum diameter of 2 inches shall be
planted and maintained near each unit pad.
         (d)   All utilities supplied by the mobile home park to individual
units shall be underground. This includes sanitary sewer, municipal water and
electricity. When piped fuel or gas is provided by the mobile home park to each
mobile home stand, this service shall also be located underground.
      (4)   Parking and street requirements.
         (a)   Parking:
            1.   Off-street parking areas shall be surfaced in accordance with
the street surface standards below;
            2.   All required off-street parking space shall be located not
further than 200 feet from the unit or units for which they are designated; and
            3.   A minimum of 1-1/4 parking spaces must be provided for each
mobile home unit. The 1 unit space is for occupant use. The remaining spaces
equivalent to 1/4 space per unit must be in group compounds at an appropriate
location within the park.
         (b)   Streets:
            1.   Streets shall be sufficiently wide to permit ease of access to
the mobile home parking stands and the placement and removal of mobile homes
without causing damage to or otherwise jeopardizing the safety of any occupants
or mobile homes in the park;
            2.   Streets shall have a minimum width so as to permit 2 moving
lanes of traffic. Minimum lane width shall be 10 feet;
            3.   Public access to a mobile home park shall be designed to
permit a minimum number of ingress and egress points to control traffic
movement and to keep undesirable traffic out of the park;
            4.   Streets shall be graded to their full width to provide proper
grades for pavements and sidewalks to have adequate surface drainage to the
storm sewer system. The improvements shall extend continuously from existing
improved streets to provide access to each lot and to provide connections to
existing or future streets at the boundaries of the mobile home park; and
            5.   Streets and parking areas shall be surfaced for all-weather
travel with not less than 4 inches of crushed stone, gravel or other suitable
base material topped with not less than 1-1/2 inches of asphalt paving, or 4
inches Portland cement concrete. The surface shall be limited at the edge by a
Portland cement curb not less than 4 inches high.
      (5)   Storage.
         (a)   Enclosed storage lockers, when provided, shall be located either
adjacent to the mobile home in a mobile home park or at a place in the park
convenient to the unit for which it is provided.
         (b)   Large items such as boats and boat trailers shall not be stored
at the mobile home unit site, but shall be provided in a separate screened area
of the park.
      (6)   Registrations.
         (a)   The operator of the mobile home park must keep a register
containing a record of all mobile home owners and occupants within the park.
         (b)   The register shall contain the following information:
            1.   Name and address of each mobile home occupant;
            2.   Name and address of the owner of each mobile home;
            3.   Make, model, year, license and number of each mobile home;
            4.   State, territory or county issuing a license;
            5.   Date of the arrival and departure of each mobile home; and
            6.   Number and type of motor vehicles of residents in the park.
         (c)   The park shall keep the register available for inspection at all
times by the city and county law enforcement officers, public health officials
and other public officers whose duty necessitates obtaining information. The
register record for each occupant and/or mobile home registered shall not be
destroyed until 3 years following the registrant's departure from the park.
      (7)   Maintenance.
         (a)   The operator of any mobile home park, or a duly authorized
attendant or caretaker, shall be in charge at all times to keep the mobile home
park, its facilities and equipment, in a clean, orderly and sanitary condition.
         (b)   The attendant or caretaker and the operator shall be answerable
for any violation of a regulation with which the operator must comply.
(1987 Code, § 703.02) (Am. Ord. 434, passed 3-10-1998; Am. Ord. 473, passed 9-
9-2003; Am. Ord. 561, passed 2-26-2013; Am. Ord. 579, passed 6-23-2015; Am.
Ord. 582, passed 12-22-2015; Am. Ord. 630, passed 2-9-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-646,
passed 12-27-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-647, passed 12-27-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-648,
passed 12-27-2022)
§ 152.42 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   (1)   Nonconformities in general. Any nonconformity, including the
lawful use or occupation of land or premises existing at the time of the
adoption of a land-use control under this chapter, except prohibited adults-
only businesses; may be continued, through repair, replacement, restoration,
maintenance, or improvements, but not including expansion, unless:
         (a)   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of
more than 1 year; or
         (b)   The nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its market value, and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In this case, a
municipality may impose reasonable conditions upon a building permit in order
to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property.
         (c)   Notwithstanding division (1) no nonconforming use or its
replacement, maintenance, improvement, or expansion in floodplain areas, shall
be contained if it would jeopardize eligibility in the National Flood Insurance
Program, and or increase flood damage potential or increase the degree of
obstruction to flood flows in the floodway.
         (d)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
structure that were manifestly arranged or designed for the use, but it shall
not be extended to occupy any land or a larger area of land outside the
structure.
         (e)   A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged, unless the Planning
Commission approves a permit for an enlargement.
         (f)   On a building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming
use, work may be done on ordinary repairs, or on repairs of walls, roofs,
fixtures, wiring, or plumbing, provided that the cubic content of the building
as it existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this code shall not be
increased.
         (g)   Enlargement of nonconforming use. The Planning Commission may
permit the enlargement of a nonconforming use if the commission makes the
following findings:
            1.   The enlargement will not result in an increase in the number
of dwelling units;
            2.   For enlargements of a structure, the enlargement will meet the
yard, height, and percentage of lot coverage requirements of district;
            3.   The appearance of the enlargement will be compatible with the
adjacent property and neighborhood;
            4.   Off-street parking is provided for the enlargement that meets
the requirements for new structures in that district.
            5.   Rezoning the property would result in a "spot" zoning or a
zoning inappropriate to surrounding land use; and
            6.   After the enlargement, the use will not result in an increase
in noise, vibration, glare, dust, or smoke; be detrimental to the existing
character of development in the immediate neighborhood; or endanger the public
health, safety, or general welfare;
            7.   The use is consistent with the comprehensive plan; and
            8.   A notarized petition of 2/3 of the property owners within 100
feet of the property has been submitted stating their support for the
enlargement.
      (2)   The application for a permit enlarge a nonconformity shall include
the petition, a site plan, floor plans, and other information as required by
the Zoning Administrator to show all necessary facts to justify issuance of the
permit.
   (B)   Mixed conformities.
      (1)   Legal nonconforming structures containing a conforming use or a
structure containing a use nonconforming as to parking only. Where a legal
nonconforming structure contains a use conforming use, or where a structure
contains a use nonconforming as to parking only, such structure may be
enlarged, altered or relocated so long as such enlargement, alteration, or
relocation does not increase its nonconformity. Buildings accessory to a
conforming use or accessory to a use nonconforming as to parking only may be
added, provided such accessory buildings conform in all respects to the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   Structure (conforming or nonconforming) Containing a Legal
Nonconforming Use. Structures containing 1 or more legal nonconforming uses
shall not be moved to a new location on the zoning lot, expanded, enlarged in
any way, nor shall such use be intensified, except that the city planning
commission may permit the relocation, expansion, enlargement, or
intensification of such use or structure or any accessory structure, if it
makes the following findings; and the relocation, expansion, enlargement, or
intensification meets all the other applicable regulations of this section
shall not authorize a use prohibited in the zoning district in which it is
located to be expanded beyond the boundaries of its zoning lot):
         (a)   A rezoning of the property would be inappropriate.
         (b)   The enlargement, expansion, relocation or intensification will
be compatible with adjacent property and the neighborhood.
         (c)   The enlargement, expansion, relocation, or intensification will
not result in significant increases of adverse off-site impacts such as
traffic, noise, dust, odors, and parking congestion.
         (d)   The enlargement, expansion, relocation or intensification,
because of improvements to the property, will improve the appearance or
stability of the neighborhood.
         (e)   In districts in which residential uses are allowed, the
enlargement, expansion, relocation or intensification will not result in the
creation or presence of more dwelling units or rooming units on the subject
property than is allowed by the regulations of the district in which the
property is located.
         (f)   The enlargement, expansion, relocation or intensification will
not be located in the floodway district.
      (3)   Expansion of a nonconforming outdoor use. No nonconforming,
principal outdoor use of land shall be expanded to occupy a greater area of
land than was occupied on the date that such use first became a legal
nonconforming use; nor shall such outdoor use be moved, in whole or in part, to
any other portion of the lot or parcel than was occupied by such use on the
date the use first became a legal nonconforming use, or otherwise intensified.
   (C)   Conditions and guarantees. The city planning commission may impose
such conditions on any proposed enlargement, expansion, relocation, structural
alteration or intensification of a nonconformity and require such guarantees as
it deems reasonable and necessary to protect the public interest, and to ensure
compliance with the standards and purposes of this section and the
comprehensive plan.
(1987 Code, § 703.03) (Am. Ord. passed - -; Am. Ord. 507, passed 5-8-2007 )
§ 152.43 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Conditional use permits may be issued for any of the
following:
      (1)   Any of the uses or purposes for which the permits are required or
permitted by this chapter;
      (2)   Public utility or public service uses or public building in any
district when found to be necessary for the public health, safety, convenience
or welfare;
      (3)   To classify as a conforming use any institutional use existing in
any district at the time of the establishment of a district; or
      (4)   To permit any of the following uses in a district from which they
are excluded by other provisions of this chapter: library; community center;
church; hospital; fairgrounds; an institution of an educational, philanthropic
or charitable nature; cemetery, mausoleum or any other place for the disposal
of the human dead.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made to the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Any proceedings to classify certain uses as conforming uses as
provided in this section may be initiated either by application or by the City
Council or the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may hold hearings on the proposal to issue
a conditional use permit as it considers necessary; but, at least 1 public
hearing shall be held on any application for a use permit which would establish
a use listed in division (A)(4) above.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall report to the City Council upon any
application for a conditional permit and shall recommend granting a permit
unless it finds establishing, maintaining or conducting the use will be
detrimental in either of the following ways:
         (a)   To the health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or welfare
of the persons residing or working in the neighborhood of the use; or
         (b)   To the public welfare or to property or improvements in the
neighborhood.
      (5)   The Commission may designate conditions and require guarantees in
granting use permits in the manner provided in §
152.46. Upon receiving the Planning Commissioner's report, the City Council may
hold a public hearing and shall decide the proposal to grant the use permit.
      (6)   If the City Council finds that a detrimental condition described
above exists, the City Council may grant the use permit and attach to the
permit conditions and guarantees as described in §
152.46.
   (C)   Conformance. Any use permitted under the terms of a conditional uses
permit shall be established and conducted in conformity with the terms of the
permit and all related conditions.
(1987 Code, § 703.04)
§ 152.44 THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Authorization.
      (1)   The Mayor is hereby authorized and directed to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The Mayor, if necessary, may delegate the enforcement of this
chapter to any city administrative official and supporting staff, who shall be
directly under the Mayor's control and shall be known as the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Duties. The Zoning Administrator shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Examine all applications pertaining to land use, buildings or
structures, and approve the application when it conforms with this chapter;
      (2)   Keep a record of all nonconforming uses;
      (3)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures and land uses to
determine compliance with this chapter. The Zoning Administrator may require
the services of a testing laboratory to determine compliance with performance
standards. The cost of employing the laboratory shall be paid by the owner if a
violation of this chapter is established; otherwise, the city shall pay for the
services;
      (4)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a
provision of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
      (5)   Order discontinuing any illegal use of land, buildings or
structures; order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions,
alterations; order discontinuing any illegal work being done; or take action
authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
this chapter;
      (6)   Maintain permanent and current records of the Zoning Code as
provided in §
152.15(B), including all maps, amendments, conditional uses and variations;
      (7)   Maintain a current file of all permits, certificates and copies of
notices of violation, discontinuance or removal, for a length of time necessary
to insure continuous compliance with this chapter and, on request, provide
information to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in any
specific property; and
      (8)   Provide technical assistance to the City Council and Planning
Commission.
(1987 Code, § 703.05)
§ 152.45 BUILDING AND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, no person, firm or corporation
shall construct, erect, alter, wreck or move any building or structure or parts
thereof within the city without first obtaining a building permit from the
city.
      (2)   A building permit is not necessary to alter, repair or otherwise
change the interior of any residential building, provided the proposed
alteration, repair or change will not affect the exterior dimension of the
building or change the existing use and occupancy of the building.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on forms to be furnished by the city.
      (2)   Each permit application to construct or alter a building shall be
accompanied by a plan, drawn to scale, showing the dimensions of the lot to be
built upon and the size and location of the building and accessory buildings to
be erected.
      (3)   Applications shall contain other information as necessary for the
proper enforcement of the city code.
   (C)   Fees. The fee for a building permit is the total of a valuation fee
plus a plan check fee, plus a state surcharge. These fees will be established
by Council resolution.
   (D)   Issuance. The Zoning Administrator shall issue the building permit
only after determining the building plans and the application comply with this
chapter.
   (E)   Certificate of zoning compliance.
      (1)   A certificate of zoning compliance shall be obtained before any
building erected or structurally altered is occupied or the use of the building
is altered.
      (2)   Application for a certificate of zoning compliance for a new
building or for an existing building which has been altered shall be made to
the Zoning Administrator as part of the building permit application (see
division (B) above).
      (3)   Every certificate of zoning compliance shall state that the
building or proposed use of a building or land complies with all provisions of
law and this chapter. A record of all certificates of zoning compliance shall
be kept on file in the Zoning Administrator's office, and copies shall be
furnished on request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
the building or land affected.
(1987 Code, § 703.06)
§ 152.46 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Criteria for granting variances. A variance to the provisions of this
chapter may be issued by the Board of Adjustment to provide relief to the
landowner in those cases where this chapter imposes practical difficulties to
the property owner in the use of this land. No variances may be issued for a
use not permitted in that district. A variance may be granted, pursuant to M.S.
§ 462.357, Subd. 6, as amended, only upon finding all of the:
      (1)   The variance is in harmony with the purpose and intent of the
ordinance;
      (2)   The variance is consistent with the comprehensive plan;
      (3)   The proposal seeks to use the property in a reasonable manner not
permitted by the zoning ordinance;
      (4)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner;
      (5)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
      (6)   No variance shall permit a lower degree of flood protection than
the Regulatory Flood Protection elevation for the particular area or permit
standards lower than those required by federal, state or local law.
      (7)   Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
      (8)   Variances shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as
defined in M.S. § 216C.06, Subd. 14, when in harmony with this section. The
board of adjustments may not permit as a variance any use that is not allowed
under the zoning ordinance for property in the zone where the affected person’s
land is located. The board may permit as a variance the temporary use of a one-
family dwelling as a two-family dwelling. The board may impose conditions in
the granting of variances. A condition must be directly related to and must
bear a rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (B)   Required exhibits for variance applications. 
      (1)   A preliminary building and site development plan showing measured
distances to boundary lines from proposed project for area variances, and other
dimensions (i.e. height, square feet, etc.) which apply to relief requests. The
Council may also require a boundary survey of the property.
      (2)   Evidence of ownership or enforceable option on the property,
including the complete legal description, and names and addresses of all
owners.
(1987 Code, § 703.07) (Am. Ord. 442, passed 11-9-1999; Am. Ord. 506, passed 5-
8-2007; Am. Ord. 546, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 152.47 AMENDING THE ZONING CODE.
   (A)   Purpose. The Council may on its own motion, on request of the Planning
Commission, or on petition or appeal of the affected property owners perform
the following acts:
      (1)   Transfer land, or a portion thereof, from the district in which it
is situated to another district, by amending this Zoning Code; and
      (2)   Change any Zoning Code provision relating to the use or platting of
land in any district or the restrictions upon buildings or structures by
amending this Zoning Code.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   An application for amendment shall be filed with the City
Administrator in duplicate, accompanied by a fee established annually by
Council resolution. The City Administrator shall forward 1 copy to the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   The Commission shall recommend granting or denying the application
to the Council within 30 days.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be held on the application. Notice of the
time and place shall be given not more than 30 days nor less than 10 days
before the day of the hearing. The notice shall be published at least 1 in the
official city newspaper. The owners of the property under consideration and the
property owners within 300 feet of the subject property shall be notified by
mail. The City Assessor's current tax records shall be sufficient for
identifying these property owners.
      (4)   (a)   The Council, upon receiving the Planning Commission's report,
and without further public hearing, may vote upon the adoption of a proposed
amendment or may refer it back to the Commission for further consideration.
         (b)   If the Council refers the proposed amendment back to the
Commission and the Commission does not give the Council a modified
recommendation within 30 days after the hearing, the Council may take action
without awaiting the modification.
         (c)   In considering recommendations, due allowance shall be made for
existing conditions, the conservation of property values, the direction of
building development to the best advantage of the entire city and the uses to
which the property affected is being devoted at the time; no change shall be
recommended unless it is required for the public good.
         (d)   The amendment shall be adopted only following its passage upon
the vote of all of the members of the Council in accordance with the
requirements of M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 2, as amended.
   (C)   Petition or appeal for amendments. An appeal by affected property
owners for amending this Zoning Code shall include the following:
      (1)   Name, address and signature of each petitioner;
      (2)   Specific description of the property proposed to be rezoned, and
the names and addresses of the owners of this property;
      (3)   The present and proposed zone classifications of the area;
      (4)   The present use of each separately owned tract within the area, and
the intended use of any tract of land, if known to the petitioners;
      (5)   How the rezoning will fit in with the general zoning pattern of the
neighborhood and the zoning plan of the city; and
      (6)   (a)   Three copies of a map showing the property to be rezoned and
the present zoning of the surrounding area for at least a distance of 500 feet,
including the street pattern of the area.
         (b)   The map scale shall be 100 feet to 1 inch.
(1987 Code, § 703.08) (Am. Ord. 546, passed 8-23-2011)
§ 152.48 TIME DEADLINE FOR CITY ACTION.
   (A)   Deadline for response.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter and notwithstanding
any other law to the contrary, the city must approve or deny within 60 days a
written request relating to zoning or septic system permits, licenses or any
other governmental approval of an action.
      (2)   Failure of the city to deny a request within 60 days shall be
considered approval of the request.
      (3)   If the city denies the request, it must state in writing the
reasons for the denial at the time it denies the request.
   (B)   Applications; extensions.
      (1)   (a)   The time limit in division (A) above begins upon the city's
receipt of a written request containing all information required by law or by a
previously adopted rule, ordinance or policy of the city.
         (b)   If the city receives a written request that does not contain all
required information, the 60-day limit starts over only if the city sends
notice within 10 business days of receipt of the request stating what
information is missing.
      (2)   If an action relating to zoning or septic systems requires the
approval of more than 1 state agency in the executive branch, the 60-day period
in division (A) above begins to run for all executive branch agencies on the
day a request containing all required information is received by 1 state
agency. The city receiving the request must forward copies to those state
agencies whose approval is required.
      (3)   A city response meets the 60-day time limit if the city can
document that the response was sent within 60 days of receipt of the written
request.
      (4)   (a)   The time limit in division (A) above is extended if a state
statute, federal law or court order requires a process to occur before the city
can act on a request, and the time periods prescribed in the state statute,
federal law or court order makes it impossible to act on the request within 60
days.
         (b)   In cases described in this subsection, the deadline is extended
to 60 days after completion of the last process required in the applicable
statute, law or order. Final approval of an agency receiving a request is not
considered a process for purposes of this subsection.
      (5)   The time limit in division (A) above is extended if an application
submitted to the city requires prior approval of a state or federal agency. In
cases described in this division, the deadline for city action is extended to
60 days after the required prior approval is granted.
      (6)   The city may extend the timeline under this division before the end
of the initial 60-day period by providing written notice of the extension to
the applicant. The notification must state the reasons for the extension and
its anticipated length, which may not exceed 60 days unless approved by the
applicant.
(1987 Code, § 703.09)
§ 152.49 VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations and penalties. Any person, firm or corporation who violates
any of these provisions, fails to comply with any of these provisions or makes
any false statement in any document required to be submitted under these
provisions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Enforcement. In case any building or structure is erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or any
building, structure or land is used in violation of this Zoning Code, the
Zoning Administrator may institute any proper action or proceedings in the name
of the city. The Zoning Administrator shall have the power of a police officer
to prevent unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
conversion, maintenance or use; to restrain, correct or abate a violation to
prevent the occupancy of a building, structure or land; or to prevent any
illegal act, conduct, business or use in or about any premises.
(1987 Code, § 703.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.50 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 587, passed 8-23-2016)
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 152.75 ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Scope. This subchapter applies to alternative energy systems in all
zoning districts.
   (B)   Purpose and intent. It is the goal of the City Council to provide a
sustainable quality of life for the city’s residents, making careful and
effective use of available natural, human and economic resources and ensuring
that resources exist to maintain and enhance the quality of life for future
residents, while preserving the general characteristics of residential
neighborhoods and the community uses at large. In accordance with that goal,
the city finds that it is in the public interest to encourage alternative
energy systems that have a positive impact on energy production and
conservation while not having an adverse impact on the community. Therefore,
the purposes of this section include:
      (1)   To promote rather than restrict development of alternative energy
sources by creating a clear regulatory path for approving alternative energy
systems while remaining conscientious of rights and privileges of all
residents.
      (2)   To create a livable community where development incorporates
sustainable design elements such as resource and energy conservation and use of
renewable energy.
      (3)   To decrease the use of fossil fuels.
         (a)   To encourage alternative energy development in locations where
the technology is viable and environmental, economic and social impacts can be
mitigated.
         (b)   To establish reasonable requirements for performance, safety,
design and aesthetics of alternative energy systems.
   (C)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
subchapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this section:
      ACCESSORY. A system designed as a secondary use to existing buildings or
facilities, wherein the power generated is used primarily for on-site
consumption.
      ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEM. A ground source heat pump, wind or solar
energy system.
      BUILDING-INTEGRATED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A solar energy system that is an
integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate
mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or structural
component of the building including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot
water solar systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights and
awnings.
      CLOSED LOOP GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that circulates a
heat transfer fluid, typically food-grade antifreeze, through pipes or coils
buried beneath the land surface or anchored to the bottom in a body of water.
      FLUSH-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A roof-mounted system mounted directly
abutting the roof. The pitch of the solar collector may exceed the pitch of the
roof up to 5% but shall not be higher than ten inches above the roof.
      GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that uses the relatively
constant temperature of the earth or a body of water to provide heating in the
winter and cooling in the summer. System components include open or closed
loops of pipe, coils or plates; a fluid that absorbs and transfers heat; and a
heat pump unit that processes heat for use or disperses heat for cooling; and
an air distribution system.
      HEAT TRANSFER FLUID. A non-toxic and food grade fluid such as potable
water, aqueous solutions of propylene glycol not to exceed 20% by weight or
aqueous solutions of potassium acetate not to exceed 20% by weight.
      HORIZONTAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine design in which the rotor
shaft is parallel to the ground and the blades are perpendicular to the ground.
      HORIZONTAL GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A closed loop ground source
heat pump system where the loops or coils are installed horizontally in a
trench or series of trenches no more than 20 feet below the land surface.
      HUB. The center of a wind generator rotor, which holds the blades in
place and attaches to the shaft.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ada95d895e6e145973b3fc585ecb894d4f1819b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-850.jpg]
 
      HUB HEIGHT. The distance measured from natural grade to the center of the
turbine hub.
      MONOPOLE TOWER. A tower constructed of tapered tubes that fit together
symmetrically and are stacked one section on top of another and bolted to a
concrete foundation without support cables.
      OPEN LOOP GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A system that uses ground water
as a heat transfer fluid by drawing ground water from a well to a heat pump and
then discharging the water over land, directly in a water body or into an
injection well.
      PASSIVE SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A system that captures solar light or heat
without transforming it to another form of energy or transferring the energy
via a heat exchanger.
      PHOTOVOLTAIC SYSTEM. A solar energy system that converts solar energy
directly into electricity.
      RESIDENTIAL WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine of two kilowatt (kW) nameplate
generating capacity or less.
      SMALL WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine of 100 kW nameplate generating
capacity or less.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide daylight for interior lighting or provide for
the collection, storage and distribution of solar energy for space heating or
cooling, electricity generation or water heating.
      TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point above natural grade reached by a rotor
tip or any other part of a wind turbine.
      TOWER. A vertical structure that supports a wind turbine.
      UTILITY WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine of more than 100 kW nameplate
generating capacity.
      VERTICAL AXIS WIND TURBINE. A type of wind turbine where the main rotor
shaft runs vertically.
      VERTICAL GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEM. A closed loop ground source heat
pump system where the loops or coils are installed vertically in one or more
borings below the land surface.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. An electrical generating facility that consists of a
wind turbine, feeder line(s), associated controls and may include a tower.
      WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts
the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy through the use of
airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011)
§ 152.76 GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. Ground source heat pump systems in accordance with
the standards in this section are allowed as a permitted accessory use in all
zoning districts.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   System requirements.
         (a)   Only closed loop ground source heat pump systems utilizing heat
transfer fluids as defined in §
152.75(C) are permitted. Open loop ground source heat pump systems are not
permitted.
         (b)   Ground source heat pump systems in public waters may be
permitted as a conditional use in accordance with §
152.81 subject to approval from the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources
in accordance with Minn. Rules § 6115.0211, Subp. 6b and subject to written
consent of all property owners and/or approval by an association in accordance
with its adopted bylaws.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   All components of ground source heat pump systems including
pumps, borings and loops shall be set back at least five feet from interior
side lot lines and at least ten feet from rear lot lines.
         (b)   Above-ground equipment associated with ground source heat pumps
shall not be installed in the front yard of any lot or the side yard of a
corner lot adjacent to a public right-of-way and shall meet all required
setbacks for the applicable zoning district.
      (3)   Easements. Ground source heat pump systems shall not encroach on
public drainage, utility, roadway or trail easements, or any other public
easements.
      (4)   Noise. Ground source heat pump systems shall comply with Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency standards outlined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as
amended, and city code.
      (5)   Screening. Ground source heat pumps are considered mechanical
equipment and in order to suppress noise and hide from public view materials
and designs matching those used for the structure will be incorporated into a
plan design. Where miscellaneous exterior equipment cannot be fully hidden with
matching building materials, landscaping may be used as additional screening.
Screening remains subject to the requirements of the applicable zoning
district.
      (6)   Deviations. Any deviation from the required standards of this
division may be permitted through a conditional use permit in accordance with
§§
152.43 and
152.81.
   (C)   Safety. Ground source heat pumps shall be certified by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc. and meet the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (D)   Abandonment. If the ground source heat pump system remains
nonfunctional or inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system
shall be deemed to be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The
owner shall remove the abandoned system at their expense after a demolition
permit has been obtained in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The heat pump and any external mechanical equipment shall be
removed.
      (2)   Pipes or coils below the land surface shall be filled with grout to
displace the heat transfer fluid. The heat transfer fluid shall be captured and
disposed of in accordance with applicable state and federal regulations. The
top of the pipe, coil or boring shall be uncovered and grouted.
   (E)   Permits. Those permits as required, and a conditional use permit if
required, shall be obtained for any ground source heat pump system prior to
installation. Borings for vertical systems are subject to approval from the
Minnesota Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.77 WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. Residential wind turbines in accordance with the
standards in this section are prohibited in the R-1 (Single Family Residential
District), R-2 (Multiple Family Residence), C-1 (Downtown Commercial District),
C-2 (Service-Commercial), R-3 (Mixed Use Residence), PUD (Planned Unit
Development), R-1M (Modular and Mobile Home) unless they are structurally
attached to the principal structure (roof) and do not exceed 5 feet in height
from the roof peak, which then would be deemed permitted accessory uses.
Residential and small wind turbines are a permitted accessory use on lots at
least 20 acres in size in the A-1 (Agriculture-Conservation), I-1 (Light
Industrial), and I-2 (General Industry). Utility wind turbines are a permitted
accessory use on lots at least 40 acres in size in the A-1 (Agriculture-
Conservation). Wind energy systems are not permitted in any other zoning
districts.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Number. No more than one wind energy system is permitted per
parcel.
      (2)   Height. The total height of the tower, including any portion of the
rotor or axis extending above the tower, shall not exceed the horizontal
distance between the base of the tower and the nearest lot line or building
line, except that the horizontal distance may extend beyond the nearest lot
line or building line, provided there are no overhead utility lines or
easements therefore or if the abutting areas is a public alleyway. Furthermore,
the City Council may allow the height requirements to be exceeded upon
recommendation of the Planning and Zoning Commission, provided it is satisfied
that the proposed structure will withstand the windloads in the area. As
evidence of this, the City Council shall require the following information:
         (a)   Dimensional representation of the various structural components
of the tower construction, including the base and footings.
         (b)   Design data which shall indicate basis of design, including
manufacturer’s dimensional drawings and installation and operation
instructions.
         (c)   Certification by an independent registered professional engineer
or other qualified professional that the structure is sufficient to withstand
windload requirements for structures as established by the applicable building
construction codes.
      (3)   Blade length. For residential wind turbines, other than roof-
mounted wind turbines, a maximum blade length of 15 feet is permitted.
      (4)   Roof mounting. Roof-mounted wind turbines are not permitted, except
those that do not exceed 5 feet in height or length.
      (5)   Setbacks.
         (a)   For residential wind turbines, the base of the wind turbine
tower shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to the hub
height. Wind energy systems shall not be installed in the front yard of any lot
or in the side yard of a comer lot adjacent to a public right-of-way.
         (b)   For small wind turbines, the base of the wind turbine tower
shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to the hub height.
In addition, the base of the wind turbine tower shall be set back from the
nearest public right-of-way, above ground power line, drainage or utility
easement, recreational field, dwelling, school, business or other habitable
structure, 300 feet or 1.5 times the total height, whichever is greater.
         (c)   For utility wind turbines, the base of the wind turbine tower
shall be set back from all property lines a distance equal to the hub height.
In addition, the base of the wind turbine tower shall be set back from the
nearest public right-of-way, above ground power line, drainage or utility
easement, recreational field, dwelling, school, business or other habitable
structure, 600 feet or 3.0 times the total height, whichever is greater.
      (6)   Easements. Wind energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage and utility easements, utility roadway or trail easements, or any
other public easements.
      (7)   Noise. Wind energy systems shall comply with Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency standards outlined in Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as amended, and
city code at all property lines.
      (8)   Screening. Wind energy systems are exempt from the requirements of
§
152.41(L)(2)(d).
      (9)   Aesthetics. All portions of the wind energy system shall be a
nonreflective, non-obtrusive color, subject to the approval of the Community
Development Director. Only monopole towers are permitted. The appearance of the
turbine, tower and any other related components shall be maintained throughout
the life of the wind energy system pursuant to industry standards. Systems
shall not be used for displaying any advertising. Systems shall not be
illuminated.
      (10)   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
      (11)   Vibration. No wind energy system shall produce vibrations through
the ground that are humanly perceptible beyond the property on which it is
located.
      (12)   Deviations. Any deviation from the required standards of this
subchapter may be permitted through a conditional use permit in accordance with
§§
152.43 and
152.81.
   (C)   Safety.
      (1)   Standards and certification.
         (a)   Standards. Wind energy systems shall meet minimum standards such
as International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 61400-2 or the American Wind
Energy Association’s (AWEA) Small Wind Turbine Performance and Safety Standard
or other standards as determined by the city’s electrical engineer.
         (b)   Certification. Wind energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Small Wind Certification Council or other body as determined by the
Community Development Director for conformance to applicable standards. The
city reserves the right to deny a building permit for proposed wind energy
systems deemed to have inadequate certification or testing for operation in a
severe winter climate.
         (c)   Maintenance. Wind energy systems shall be maintained under an
agreement or contract by the manufacturer or other qualified entity.
         (d)   Utility connection. All grid connected systems shall have a
completed written agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a
building permit. A visible manual external disconnect must be provided, which
complies with applicable electric codes.
         (e)   Abandonment. If the wind energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of one year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including foundations to below natural
grade and transmission equipment.
         (f)   Permits. Those permits as required, and a conditional use permit
if required, shall be obtained for any wind energy system prior to
installation.
         (g)   Liability insurance. No building permit shall be issued for the
construction of a wind energy system until and unless the applicant for the
building permit deposits with the Zoning Administrator a policy of liability
insurance indemnifying the applicant from liability for personal injury or
property damage arising from the operation, malfunction, or collapse of the
wind energy system in the sum of at least $1,000,000. The insurance policy so
deposited shall contain a clause obligating the company issuing the same to
give at least 10 days’ written notice to the city before the cancellation
thereof, the conditional use permit to be automatically revoked upon the lapse
or termination of said insurance policy.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.78 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Zoning districts. Solar energy systems, in accordance with the
standards in this section, are allowed as a conditional use in all zoning
districts, except that in residential and commercial districts when the
structure is roof mounted, it is a permitted accessory use.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Exemption. Passive or building-integrated solar energy systems are
exempt from the requirements of this section and shall be regulated as any
other building element.
      (2)   Height. Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with the
maximum height requirements in the applicable zoning district. Ground-mounted
solar energy systems shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (3)   Location. In residential zoning districts (R-1, R-1M, R-2, R-3,
PUD) as well as C-1 and C-2 Districts, ground-mounted solar energy systems are
permitted, but may only be located in the back yard. In the A-1, I-1, and I-
2 zoning districts, ground-mounted solar energy systems may be permitted in the
front yard of any lot or the side yards on corner lots, but shall not encroach
in the minimum 20-foot landscaped area adjacent to public rights-of-way.
      (4)   Setbacks. Ground-mounted solar energy systems including any
appurtenant equipment shall be set back a minimum of 15 feet from all property
lines and a minimum of 30 feet from all dwellings located on adjacent lots.
Roof-mounted systems shall comply with all building setbacks in the applicable
zoning district and shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the
building on which the system is mounted.
      (5)   Roof mounting. Roof-mounted solar collectors shall be flush mounted
on pitched roofs and shall not exceed 10 feet above the highest portion of the
building. Solar collectors may be bracket mounted on flat roofs at no more than
3 feet above the surface of the roof. The collector surface and mounting
devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems that are parallel to the roof
surface shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which
the system is mounted or built.
      (6)   Easements. Solar energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage, utility roadway or trail easements, or any other public easements.
      (7)   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened from view to the
extent possible without reducing their efficiency. Screening may include walls,
fences or landscaping.
      (8)   Maximum area. In the I-1, I-2, and A-1 Districts, ground-mounted
solar energy systems shall be limited to a maximum area consistent with the
accessory structure limitations or no more than 25% of the rear yard, whichever
is less.
      (9)   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall use colors that blend
with the color of the roof or other structure. Reflection angles from collector
surfaces shall be oriented away from neighboring windows. Where necessary,
screening may be required to address glare. All solar energy systems shall
minimize glare towards vehicular traffic and adjacent properties.
      (10)   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
      (11)   Deviations. Any deviation from the required standards of this
division may be permitted through a conditional use permit in accordance with
§§
152.43 and
152.81.
   (C)   Safety.
      (1)   Standards and certification.
         (a)   Standards. Solar energy systems shall meet the minimum standards
outlined by the International Electroteclinical Commission (IEC), the American
Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE),
ASTM International, British Standards Institution (BSI), International
Electroteclinical Commission (IEC), International Organization for
Standardization (ISO), Underwriter’s Laboratory (UL), the Solar Rating and
Certification Corporation (SRCC) or other standards as determined by the
Community Development Director.
         (b)   Certification. Solar energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation or other body as determined by
the Community Development Director for conformance to applicable standards. The
city reserves the right to deny a building permit for proposed solar energy
systems deemed to have inadequate certification.
      (2)   Utility connection. All grid-connected systems shall have a
completed written agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a
building permit. A visible external disconnect must be provided if required by
the utility.
   (D)   Abandonment. If the solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of 1 year, the system shall be deemed to be
abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including transmission equipment.
   (E)   Permits. Those permits as required, and a conditional use permit if
required, shall be obtained for any solar energy system prior to installation.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.79 PROHIBITED CHARACTERISTICS OF ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   No alternative energy system shall be constructed within 20 feet
laterally of any overhead power line (excluding secondary electrical service
lines or service drops). Setbacks from underground distribution lines shall be
at least 10 feet.
   (B)   An alternative energy system utilizing a rotary blade shall not have
an arc diameter greater than 33 feet.
   (C)   An alternative energy system shall not cause radio and television
interference.
   (D)   For wind speeds in the range of 0-25 mph, wind turbines shall not
cause a sound pressure level in excess of 60 dB(A), or in excess of 5 dB(A)
above the background noise, whichever is greater, as measured at the closest
neighboring inhabited dwelling. This level, however, may be exceeded during
short-term severe windstorm events.
   (E)   No alternative energy system shall violate MPCA noise standards, air
quality standards, or otherwise result in a nuisance source of noise.
   (F)   No alternative energy system shall resemble, imitate or approximate
the shape, size, form or color of railroad or traffic signs, signals or
devices.
   (G)   No alternative energy system shall be located as to interfere with the
visibility or effectiveness of any official traffic sign or signal, or with
driver vision at any access point or intersection.
   (H)   No alternative energy system shall display any advertisement, nor
shall it be used for any purpose other than for alternative energy.
   (I)   No alternative energy system shall be erected which contains, includes
or is illuminated by any flashing light or lights, except as required by law.
   (J)   No alternative energy system shall be erected or maintained which is
not effectively shielded so as to prevent beams or rays of light from being
directed at any portion of the traveled way of any highway or street of such
intensity or brilliance so as to cause glare or impair the vision of the
operator of any motor vehicle. Further, all systems shall be constructed as to
prevent beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of a building
or residence.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.80 PERMITS FOR ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Compliance with law. All alternative energy systems shall be
constructed in accordance with all applicable building and electrical codes and
comply with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations.
   (B)   Required alternative energy system permit. Except as otherwise
specifically authorized, no alternative energy system shall be located,
constructed, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or structurally
altered within the city until a permit for the system (“system permit”) has
been issued by the city. No system permit shall be issued for a system not in
conformity with the regulations applicable to such system. An application for a
system permit shall be accompanied by the fee as specified in the city Fee
Schedule. No application will be considered unless and until the required fee
has been paid by the applicant to the City Clerk. The alternative energy system
permit will include:
      (1)   Recorded property easements.
      (2)   A description of the project including: number, type, height,
diameter of all alternative energy systems.
      (3)   Site layout, including location of property lines, roads, ground
source heat pump, wind turbine, or solar panel, electrical wires,
interconnection points with the electrical grid, and all related accessory
structures.
      (4)   Engineer’s certification.
      (5)   Interconnection Agreement.
   (C)   Duration. Any system permit issued by the city under this chapter
shall be valid for a period of 12 months from the date of issuance. If the
construction of the system is not completed within 12 months from the date of
its issuance, the system permit shall be void, and the site for which the
permit was sought shall be returned to the condition it was in prior to the
issuance of such system permit.
   (D)   Zoning Certificate. In addition to the system permit required by this
chapter, a zoning certificate must be obtained from the city prior to the
construction of any system. An application for a zoning certificate shall be
accompanied by the fee as specified in the city Fee Schedule.
   (E)   Building permit. In addition to the system permit and zoning
certificate required by this subchapter, a building permit must be obtained
from the city prior to the construction of any system when construction
activity is of such a nature that a building permit is required.
   (F)   Application requirements. Building permit applications for any
alternative energy systems shall be accompanied by standard drawings depicting
the specifications and location of the alternative energy system and any other
documentation as required by the city. An application for a building permit
shall be accompanied by the fee as specified in the city Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.81 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   Deviations to the standards in this division may be permitted as a
conditional use in accordance with §
152.43. In granting a conditional use permit, the City Council shall consider
the criteria in §
152.43 and the following additional criteria unique to alternative energy
systems:
   (A)   That the deviation is required to allow for the improved operation of
the alternative energy system;
   (B)   That the alternative energy system has a net energy gain;
   (C)   That the alternative energy system does not adversely affect solar
access to adjacent properties;
   (D)   That the alternative energy system complies with all other
engineering, building, safety and fire regulations; and
   (E)   That the alternative energy system is found to not have any adverse
impacts on the area, including the health, safety and general welfare of
occupants of neighboring properties and users of public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011)
§ 152.82 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting this division and its application, the provisions of these
regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the protection of
public health, safety and general welfare. This division shall be construed
broadly to promote the purposes for which it was adopted.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011)
§ 152.83 CONFLICT.
   This division is not intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any other
ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or other provision of law except as
provided herein. If any provision of this subchapter imposes restrictions
different from any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute or provision of
law, the provision that is more restrictive or imposes higher standards shall
control.
(Ord. 547, passed 9-27-2011)
APPENDIX A. RELATED MATERIAL ON FILE IN CITY ADMINISTRATOR’S OFFICE.
   The following is related material on file at City Hall:
   (A)   Air Pollution Abatement Manual;
   (B)   City of St. Charles, Winona County zoning map;
   (C)   Declaration of undue hardship/inability to pay;
   (D)   Equal Employment Policy/Affirmative Action Program;
   (E)   Federal Register, volume 38, no. 215, part III, § 128;
   (F)   Flood proofing regulations, § 210.1;
   (G)   Guidelines for Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants
- 40 C.F.R. § 136;
   (H)   Manual of Accident Prevention in Construction, Association of General
Contractors of America;
   (I)   Minnesota Code of Agency Rules, Department of Agriculture, §§ 1.0109-
1.0111;
   (J)   Minnesota Regulations Mott 450;
   (K)   Minnesota Rules: Part 7500.0100 et seq.;
   (L)   M.S. Chapter 181 - Employment: Wages, Conditions, Hours, Restrictions;
   (M)   M.S. Chapter 299F - State Fire Marshall;
   (N)   Notice of Residential Customer Rights and Possible Assistance;
   (O)   Pretreatment of Pollutants Introduced into Publicly Owned Treatment
Works - U.S.E.P.A.;
   (P)   St. Charles Fire Code;
   (Q)   St. Charles flood insurance study;
   (R)   St. Charles subdivision regulations;
   (S)   St. Charles, Winona County zoning map;
   (T)   Standard Industrial Classification Manual;
   (U)   Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Waste Water; and
   (V)   Uniform Fire Code.
(1987 Code, Appendix A)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
-Section
Introductory Provisions
   
153.11   Authority
   
153.12   Applicability
   
153.13   Administration
   
153.14   Interpretation
   
153.15   Definitions
Design Standards
   
153.21   Land requirements
   
153.22   Blocks
   
153.23   Lots
   
153.24   Streets and alleys
   
153.25   Sidewalks and trails
   
153.26   Easements
   
153.27   Erosion and sediment control
   
153.28   Storm drainage
   
153.29   Development within environmentally sensitive areas
Public Improvements
   
153.31   General provisions
   
153.32   Park dedication
   
153.33   Street improvements
   
153.34   Sanitary sewer and water distribution improvements
   
153.35   Storm drainage
   
153.36   Public utilities
   
153.37   Improvement installation
   
153.38   Deposit by applicant
Procedures and Enforcement
   
153.41   Common procedures and requirements
   
153.42   Minor subdivisions
   
153.43   Sketch plan
   
153.44   Preliminary plat
   
153.45   Final plat
   
153.46   Subdivision variance
 
   
153.99   Penalty
INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
§ 153.11 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the "Subdivision Ordinance of
the City of St. Charles, and
will be referred to herein as "this chapter."
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to protect and provide for the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the city and its people, and to
specifically achieve the following purposes:
      (1)   The implementation of the Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The subdivision of land in an orderly manner which provides for the
wise use and management of land and natural resources throughout the city; and
      (3)   The provision of adequate public infrastructure, facilities, and
services.
   (C)   Effective date.
      (1)   The effective date of this chapter is November 14, 2024. This
chapter hereby supersedes and replaces in its entirety, the Subdivision
Ordinance of the City of St. Charles on the effective date hereof.
      (2)   The authority to adopt this chapter within the City of St. Charles
is derived from M.S. Ch. 462, including but not limited to M.S. § 462.358, as
well as other applicable state statutes and rules.
      (3)   Whenever other applicable city, state, or federal laws or rules
referenced in this chapter have been amended or superseded, this chapter shall
also be considered amended accordingly.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.12 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land
contained herein shall apply within the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following land
separations:
      (1)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will be
20 acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for agricultural or
residential uses;
      (2)   Where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will be
five acres or larger in size for commercial or industrial uses;
      (3)   The creation of cemetery lots; or
      (4)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.13 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered by the Zoning Administrator who is
appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may delegate specific responsibility to any
individual city employee but shall remain responsible for all decisions made by
those employees.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.14 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Conformity with city plans, policies, and regulations. Any proposed
subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan, to related policies
adopted by the city, and to the official zoning ordinance of the city,
including lot size, landscaping requirements, and other requirements outlined
in
Chapter 152.
   (B)   Conflicting regulations or provisions.
      (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
      (2)   In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the provisions
contained in this chapter and state statutes or rules, state statutes and rules
shall govern, unless such state statutes or rules provide otherwise.
      (3)   If the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with one another
or if they conflict with provisions found in other adopted ordinances or
regulations of the city, the more restrictive provision governs unless
otherwise expressly stated.
      (4)   This chapter is not intended to abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easement, covenant, or any other private agreement
provided that where the regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or
impose higher standards or requirements on such easements, covenants, or other
private agreements, the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (C)   Use of graphics, illustrations, figures, photos, and cross-references.
      (1)   Graphics, illustrations, figures, and photos are provided for
illustrative purposes only and shall not be construed as regulations. Where a
conflict may occur between the text and any graphic, illustration, figure, or
photo, the text shall control.
      (2)   In some instances, cross-references between chapters, divisions,
sections, and subsections are provided that include the chapter, division,
section, or subsection number along with the name of the reference. Where a
conflict may occur between the given cross-reference number and name, the name
shall control.
   (D)   Rules. For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present
tense shall include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural,
and the plural the singular; the word "lot" shall include the word "plat"; and
the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.15 DEFINITIONS.
   Except for those words and phrases defined below, the words and phrases used
in this chapter shall be interpreted to be given the meaning in common usage,
so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   APPLICANT. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide the same under this chapter.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of a street right-of-way not occupied by pavement.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls. When
separated by division walls without openings, each portion of such building
shall be deemed as a separate building.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A document prepared by a licensed engineer or
registered land surveyor which precisely describes area, dimensions and
location of a parcel or parcels of land.
   CITY. The City of St. Charles.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney employed or retained by the city, unless
otherwise stated.
   CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of St. Charles.
   CITY ENGINEER. The engineer employed or retained by the city unless
otherwise stated.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A Comprehensive Plan prepared and approved by the city
including a compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, fiscal
guidelines, and maps indicating various functional classes of land use, places,
and structures, and for the general development of the city including any unit
or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts
thereof.
   COUNTY. Winona County, Minnesota.
   DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A written contract between city and applicant in
conjunction with the approval by city of a subdivision.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land and for
the purpose of constructing and maintaining drives, utilities, including, but
not limited to, wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric
lines, telephone lines, storm sewer or storm drainage-ways and gas lines.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the
requirements of the city and in such form as required by Winona County for the
purpose of recording.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a public street right-of-way.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
      (1)   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the
interior angle of such
intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
      (2)   LOT, THROUGH. An interior lot having frontage on two parallel
streets.
      (3)   LOT, UNIT. A lot created from the subdivision of a two-family
dwelling or a quadraminium having different minimum lot size requirements than
the conventional base lot within the zoning district
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ada95d895e6e145973b3fc585ecb894d4f1819b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1066.jpg]
   LOT DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front and rear lines
measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way within the lot
boundaries.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
lot improvements shall be property bonded as provided in these regulations.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the side property lines
measured at right angles to the lot depth measured at the required minimum
building setback line.
   METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and described the bearings and distances of the lines
forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional portion of
the section, lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   OUTLOT. A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other use, for which no building permit shall be
issued.
   PARCEL. An individual lot or tract of land.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way or private easement across a block or
within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PERSON. Any individual or legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The St. Charles Planning Commission.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A detailed drawing or map for a proposed subdivision,
meeting the requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, trail, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement or
other facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local
government responsibility is established.
   QUADRAMINIUMS. Single structures which contain four subdivided dwelling
units all of which have individually separate entrances from the exterior of
the structure.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use, and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, trail,
railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, or other similar uses.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street, lot
line, ordinary high water mark or bluff line. Distances are to be measured from
the most outwardly extended portion of the structure at ground level.
   SKETCH PLAN. A drawing showing the proposed subdivision of property.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designed as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or
however otherwise designated.
      (1)   STREETS, COLLECTOR. Those streets which carry traffic from local
streets to the major system of arterials and highways. Collector streets
primarily provide principal access to residential neighborhoods, including to a
lesser degree, direct land access.
      (2)   STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having
an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal or traffic
movement.
      (3)   STREETS, HALF. A portion of the width of a street, usually along
the edge or boundary of a development, where the remaining portion of the
street is to be provided by the development of an adjacent property.
      (4)   STREETS, LOCAL. Those streets which are used primarily for access
to abutting properties and for local traffic movement.
      (5)   STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS (FRONTAGE ROAD). Those local streets which
are parallel and adjacent to thoroughfares and highways; and which provide
access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
      (6)   STREETS, PRIVATE. Those streets which are not dedicated to the city
for public use.
      (7)   STREETS, RESERVE STRIPS. A narrow strip of land adjacent to the
right-of- way line of a street that is intended to prevent or control access to
abutting streets or parcels.
      (8)   STREETS, SERVICE ACCESS/ALLEYWAYS. A dedicated public roadway which
runs parallel to a larger roadway and which provides access to the adjacent
property(s).
      (9)   STREETS, THOROUGHFARE OR ARTERIAL. Those streets carrying larger
volumes of traffic and serving as links between various sub-areas of the
community. Thoroughfares or arterial streets are intended to provide for
collection and distribution of traffic between highways and collector streets,
hence regulation of direct access to property is critical.
   SUBDIVISION. The separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under
single ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term
leaseholds.
   SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered under Minnesota State laws.
   WATERWAY, NATURAL. A natural passageway on the surface of the earth, so
situated and having such a topographical natural nature, that surface water
flows through.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   VARIANCE. A modification, or variation of the provisions of this chapter, as
applies to a specific piece of property.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person duly appointed by the City Council as the
individual charged with the responsibility of administering and enforcing this
chapter.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance or resolution controlling the use of
land as adopted by the city.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.21 LAND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for the purposes proposed
by reason of potential flooding, topography or adverse soil, rock formation or
wetlands.
   (B)   Land subject to hazards to life, health, or property shall not be
subdivided until all such hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate
safeguards against such hazards are provided by the subdivision plan.
   (C)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with surrounding
jurisdictions and/or neighborhoods, so that the city as a whole may develop
efficiently and harmoniously.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.22 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets determining block
lengths shall be provided at such intervals so as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,000 feet, nor be less
than 350 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a
departure from this standard. In blocks longer than 1,000 feet, pedestrian ways
and/or easements through the block may be required near the center of the
block.
   (B)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.23 LOTS.
   (A)   Area/width.
      (1)   The minimum lot area and width shall not be less than that
established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption of
the final plat.
      (2)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to
permit appropriate building
setback from both streets as required in the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Flag lots are prohibited.
   (C)   Through lots.
      (1)   Through lots shall not be permitted except where:
         (a)   Lots back on major collector streets, county or state highways;
or
         (b)   Topographic or other conditions render subdividing otherwise
unreasonable.
      (2)   Such through lots shall have an additional depth of at least 20
feet in order to allow space for screen plantings and/or buffering along the
back lot line. As part of the subdivision review process, the submission of a
buffering and screening plan may be required.
   (D)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
   (E)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use
and shall not be less than the setback required by the city zoning ordinance,
as may be amended.
   (F)   Frontage. Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a city-approved
street other than an
alley, as required in the city zoning ordinance.
   (G)   Access.
      (1)   Each lot shall directly access a public street.
      (2)   Access to major collector streets.
         (a)   In the case where a proposed plat is adjacent to a major
collector street as defined in the city's Comprehensive Plan, there shall be no
direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets and roads.
         (b)   In the platting of small tracts of land fronting on limited
access highways or major collector streets where there is no other alternative,
a temporary access permit may be granted, subject to terms and conditions
defined by the City Council and applicable county or state agencies. As
neighboring land becomes subdivided, and more preferable access arrangements
become possible, such temporary access permits shall become void.
         (c)   In such cases where direct lot access to collector or arterial
streets is allowed, special traffic safety measures including, but not limited
to, provisions for on-site vehicle turn-arounds shall be required.
      (3)   In cases where a proposed plat is adjacent to a county or state
highway, the plat shall be subject to county and/or state approval.
   (H)   Drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage away from
building locations, subject to the approval of the City Engineer. A grading
plan shall be submitted showing all lot grading and drainage provisions.
   (I)   Natural features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic
spots or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
   (J)   Watercourses.
      (1)   Watercourses shall be contained within abutting lots.
      (2)   Watercourses shall be protected by easement to the anticipated high
water level (as determined by the city).
      (3)   Lots with easements protecting watercourses shall have sufficient
dimensions and area above the normal water levels (as determined by the city)
to equal or exceed the minimums specified in the zoning chapter for the
district in which the lots are located.
   (K)   Political boundaries. No singular plat shall extend over a political
boundary or school district line without document notification to affected
units of government.
   (L)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger
tract must be added to adjacent lots or outlots, rather than allowed to remain
as unusable parcels.
   (M)   Outlots.
      (1)   Lot remnants and future subdivision development phases shall be
platted as outlots. In such cases where outlots are created or exist, their
area shall not be utilized in calculating minimums for buildable lot area
requirements.
      (2)   Outlots are deemed unbuildable, and no building permit shall be
issued for such properties, except in the case of public park facilities and
essential services.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.24 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All proposed streets shall be designed in conformance with city,
county and state plans and standards.
         (a)   Local streets shall be designed to comply with the standards set
forth in the city's Standard Specifications for Street and Utility
Construction, known as "Standard Specifications" within this chapter.
         (b)   Minimum design standards for major collector streets shall
comply with Minnesota Department of Transportation State Aid standards.
      (2)   All proposed streets shall be offered for dedication as public
streets unless otherwise determined by the City Council.
      (3)   Street plans for future subdivisions. Where the plat to be
submitted includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by
the applicant, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant. Said
plan shall extend streets and utilities to the property line of the adjacent
tract and/or tracts.
   (B)   Street layout.
      (1)   Contiguous streets.
         (a)   Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect with streets
already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for future
connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts.
         (b)   Dead end streets are prohibited, except for cul-de-sac streets
as specified below.
         (c)   The arrangement of arterials and collector streets shall be
considered in their relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic,
topographic conditions, runoff of storm water, public convenience and safety,
and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served
and in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Local streets. Local streets should be so planned as to discourage
their use by non-local traffic.
      (3)   Cul-de-sac streets.
         (a)   Cul-de-sacs shall be permitted where topography or other
physical conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than 500
feet, including a circular terminal turn-around which shall be provided at the
closed end.
         (b)   In those instances where a street is terminated pending future
extension in conjunction with future subdivision, a temporary turn-around
facility shall be provided at the closed end within the dedicated right-of-way.
In lieu of dedicated right-of-way, a temporary turn-around facility may be
provided within a temporary easement with city approval. This easement should
establish a timeline for future extension and specify maintenance requirements
and responsibility for the turn-around facility.
      (4)   Service access, alleyway.
         (a)   Where provided, alleys shall not be less than 20 feet in width.
         (b)   Dead-end alleys shall be avoided wherever possible, but if
unavoidable, such dead-end alleys may be approved if adequate turn-around
facilities are provided at the closed end.
      (5)   Subdivisions abutting major rights-of-way. Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right-of-way of a U.S. or state
highway or county thoroughfare, provision may be made for a marginal access
street approximately parallel and adjacent to the boundary of such right-of-
way.
      (6)   Half streets.
         (a)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where it will be
practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided. The probable length of time elapsing before dedication
of the remainder shall be considered in this decision.
         (b)   No permanent street improvement shall be permitted within a half
street right-of-way.
         (c)   All lots having frontage or access solely from a half street are
prohibited from being eligible for building permits.
      (7)   Restriction of access. Access of local streets onto major collector
streets shall be discouraged at intervals of less than 500 feet.
      (8)   Street design. Minimum right-of-way widths, paving widths, angle of
intersection, curb radius, distances along sides of sight triangles, horizontal
alignments, vertical alignments, as well as maximum grades shall be in
accordance with the following table:
Table 153.1
                Arterial                               Frontage Road or
Design Standard Street   Collector Street Local Street Service Access   Alley
                                                       Street
Table 153.1
                Arterial        Collector              Frontage Road
Design Standard Street          Street    Local Street or Service    Alley
                                                       Access Street
Rights-of-Way   80 feet         66 feet   60 feet      40 feet       20 feet
Surface Width   As specified by 36 feet   32 feet      24 feet       10 feet
                City Engineer
Base            As specified by City Engineer
Specifications
Minimum
Horizontal      400 feet        300 feet  100 feet     100 feet      100 feet
Curve Radii
Minimum Tangent 200 feet        100 feet  50 feet      50 feet       50 feet
Between Curves
Minimum Grade   0.4%            0.4%      0.4%         0.4%          0.4%
Maximum Grade   6%              8%        10%          10%           10%
Pavement        As specified by City Engineer
Specifications
 
      (9)   Street intersections. Intersections having more than four corners
shall be prohibited. Adequate land for future intersections and interchange
construction needs shall be dedicated. Angles formed by the intersection of two
streets shall comply with the provisions of Table 153.1 above.
      (10)   Street intersection offsets. Street intersection jogs with
centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall be prohibited.
      (11)   Centerline curvature. The minimum horizontal curvature of streets
shall be in accordance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation Highway
Design Manual for the type of street and design speed. The minimum curvature
shall be 250 feet radius.
      (12)   Curb and gutter. Concrete curb and gutter shall be required on all
streets. Mountable curb, designated by the Minnesota Highway Department as
M.H.D. Design ID, shall be used on all local and collector streets, unless
otherwise directed by the City Council at the time the preliminary plat is
approved. The City Council shall designate the type of curb (mountable or other
type) for major collector streets at the time the preliminary plat is approved.
      (13)   Pavement.
         (a)   The base course shall consist of latest Minnesota Department of
Highways approved material, having a thickness of not less than eight inches.
The City Council shall have the right to determine whether this thickness is
adequate for the type of street that has been proposed.
         (b)   Pavement shall be required on all streets. If the street is
blacktopped, it must be constructed with a minimum of two and one-half inch
layers of Minnesota Highway Department 2331 bituminous. lf the street is
constructed with concrete, the proposed pavement design must first be approved
by the City Engineer.
         (c)   Street shoulders shall be constructed which are uniformly and
thoroughly compacted by rolling and level with the tops of curbs.
   (C)   Private streets.
      (1)   Private streets and reserve strips, except in the case of planned
unit developments, shall be prohibited and no public improvements shall be
approved for any private street.
      (2)   All streets shall be dedicated for public use.
      (3)   If any person applies to subdivide or replat any land or parcels
adjoining an existing private street, they shall be required to dedicate the
private street for public use and schedule for improvement to public street
standards at the time of final plat.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.25 SIDEWALKS AND TRAILS.
   (A)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Sidewalks shall be required on at least one side of every public
street.
      (2)   Sidewalks shall be constructed in accordance with the city's ADA
transition plan and Standard Specifications.
   (B)   Trails.
      (1)   Trails shall be established in accordance with the city's park and
trail system plan.
      (2)   Trail corridors not located within dedicated rights-of-way shall be
established as outlots not less than 20 feet in width.
      (3)   Trailway surfacing shall not be less than eight feet in width and
provisions made for handicap access. Trail construction will be required to
comply with the Shared Use Path Design Standards established in the Minnesota
Department of Transportation Bicycle Facility Design Manual.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.26 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Width and location. An easement for drainage and utilities at least
ten feet wide shall be provided along front lot lines and centered along shared
side and rear lot lines. If necessary for the extension of main water or sewer
lines or similar utilities, easements of greater width may be required along
lot lines or across lots.
   (B)   Continuous utility easement locations. Drainage and utility easements
shall connect with easements established in adjoining properties. These
easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval
of the City Council after a public hearing.
   (C)   Guy wires. Additional easements for pole guys should be provided,
where appropriate, at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be
arranged to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys fall alongside lot
lines.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.27 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   The development shall conform to the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency (MPCA) National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit
for storm water.
   (B)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented by
topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
   (C)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with the
different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
   (D)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any one
period of time.
   (E)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest feasible
period of time.
   (F)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for re-spreading over the developed area. Topsoil shall be restored or
provided to a depth of three inches and shall be of a quality at least equal to
the soil quality prior to development.
   (G)   Natural vegetation shall be protected wherever practical.
   (H)   Based upon the review and recommendations of the City Engineer, it may
be necessary to divert runoff water to a sedimentation basin before being
allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.28 STORM DRAINAGE.
   All subdivision design shall incorporate adequate provisions for storm water
runoff and be subject to review and approval of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.29 DEVELOPMENT WITHIN ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS.
   (A)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the city due to the existence of wetlands, drainage-ways,
watercourses, floodable areas, or steep slopes, the design of said subdivision
shall clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to insure against
adverse environmental impact.
   (B)   Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the city shall determine whether said protection will be accomplished
through lot enlargement and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in
the form of easements or outlots.
   (C)   In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions
which allow for construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to
sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the
proposed subdivision, the applicant shall be required to demonstrate that the
proposed design will not require construction on slopes over 18% or result in
significant alteration to the natural drainage system such that adverse impacts
cannot be contained within the plat boundary.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.31 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All of the required improvements specified in this chapter shall be
constructed in accordance with the State Building Code and all other applicable
city, county, and state regulations.
   (B)   Before a final plat is approved by the City Council, the owner and
applicant of the land covered by said plat shall execute and submit to the City
Council an agreement which shall be binding on the owner and applicant, and
their heirs, personal representatives and assigns, in a form approved by the
city, stating that the owner and applicant will cause no private construction
to be made on such plat or file or cause to be filed any application nor
building permit for such construction until all improvements required under
this chapter have been made or arranged for in the manner following.
   (C)   Prior to the making of such required improvements, the owner or
applicant shall deposit with the Zoning Administrator an amount consistent with
that stipulated in §
153.38. The deposit shall be either in cash or letter of credit, with sureties
satisfactory to the city, conditioned upon the payment of all expense incurred
by the city for engineering, planning and legal fees and other expense in
connection with the making of such improvements.
   (D)   With the approval of the Council and in lieu of the obligations
imposed by division (C) above, the owner or applicant may submit a petition
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429 with respect to the land to be subdivided, requesting
the city to install some or all of the improvements. Upon approval by the
Council, the city may cause said improvements to be made and special
assessments for all costs of said improvements to be levied on the land, except
any land which is or shall be dedicated to the public. Subsequent to approval
by the Council and before execution by the city of the final plat or other
appropriate forms of city approval, the owner or applicant shall submit to the
city a letter of credit, or cash deposit ("security") which guarantees payment
of special assessments levied on account of improvements installed pursuant to
this chapter. The amount of the security shall be in an amount consistent with
that stipulated in §
153.38. The security shall be in such form and contain such other provisions
and terms as may be required by the City Administrator. The security posted by
the owner or applicant may be monitored annually by the city with a pro rata
reduction in the amount thereof based upon the number of lots for which
assessments have been paid and on the number of approved land transfers.
   (E)   Whenever public improvements are required to be installed either
pursuant to divisions (C) or (D) above, the owner and applicant shall execute a
development contract embodying the terms and conditions of the approval given
by the City Council including, but not limited to, requirements set forth in
this chapter.
   (F)   No final plat shall be approved by the City Council, without first
receiving a report from the City Engineer certifying that the proposed
improvements described herein, together with the agreements and documents
required herein, meet the minimum requirements of all applicable ordinances.
As-built drawings (record drawings) of all improvements shall be filed with the
city.
   (G)   All of the required public improvements to be installed under the
provisions of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of their
construction by the City Engineer.
   (H)   Prior to any street, or other improvement being accepted by the city
as hereinafter provided, the applicant shall post a maintenance bond and/or
other security in a form acceptable to the city naming the city as obligee in
an amount deemed appropriate by the City Engineer and approved by the City
Council to insure maintenance of said improvements for a period of at least 24
months from the date of acceptance by the city.
   (I)   Durable iron monuments shall be placed at all block and lot corners,
all intermediate points on blocks where there is a change in the direction of
the block line, at points of curves in streets, at each angle and curve point
on the exterior boundary lines of the plat, and at such other points as may be
required by the City Council. All monuments shall be a minimum of one-half-inch
diameter and 15-inches in length.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.32 PARK DEDICATION.
   (A)   Dedication required.
      (1)   In every subdivision of land, a reasonable portion of such land
shall be set aside and dedicated by the applicant to the general public as open
space for parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, or public open
space.
      (2)   It is hereby found and declared that it is reasonable to require
dedication of an amount of land equal in value to that percentage of the
undeveloped land set forth in division (B) below. This dedication shall be in
addition to the property dedicated for streets, alleys, pedestrian ways, or
easements.
      (3)   Previously subdivided land for which a park dedication or fee was
received at the time of the first approval shall not be required to again
dedicate or pay a fee, unless, and only to the extent of the net increase in
the number of lots.
      (4)   At the city's option, the applicant shall dedicate land, pay an
equivalent fee in lieu of dedication, or a combination of these options to meet
the requirements of this section. The following factors may be taken into
consideration when determining whether land shall be reserved or a fee required
instead of dedication:
         (a)   The quality of the land to be subdivided is of a size or
configuration that dedication is not feasible or practical.
         (b)   The land to be dedicated will not create a parcel suitable for
park development or for usable open space or trail thoroughfares.
         (c)   The land is adjacent or readily accessible to already existing
public park and recreation facilities, or publicly maintained open space.
      (5)   The City Council, at its discretion, may waive or reduce the
requirements of this section when the subdivision includes a city-assisted
development of redevelopment area, or achieves some other public purpose and
the requirements would create a financial hardship for the project.
   (B)   Land to be dedicated.
      (1)   The amount of land required for public dedication shall be
calculated in the following manner:
         (a)   Ten percent of the gross area of residential property to be
subdivided; and
         (b)   Three percent of the gross area of commercial or industrial
property to be subdivided.
      (2)   Land dedicated under this section shall reasonably conform to the
Comprehensive Plan, and shall be in accordance with the city's capital
improvement budget for parks and other recreation areas.
      (3)   Modification of requirements. The dedication requirements based on
the development's proportional share of the city park system are presumptively
appropriate. An applicant may request a deviation from the presumptive
requirements based upon: the anticipated impact of that particular subdivision;
existing park and recreational facilities; or proposed parks, open space,
recreational, or common areas and facilities open to the public as designated
on development plans. The request must be made to the City Council as part of
an application for final plat approval. The City Council, after consideration
of the request, may modify or reduce the requirements of this section.
      (4)   Land suitability.
         (a)   Each reservation shall be of suitable size, dimension,
topography, and general character and shall have adequate road access for the
particular purposes envisioned by the Planning Commission and City Council. The
area shall be shown and marked on the plat, "Reserved for Park, Open Space,
and/or Recreation Purpose."
         (b)   The city shall not be required to accept land which will not be
usable for parks, trails, or open space, or which would require extensive
expenditures on the part of the city to make them usable. The following are
examples of land that the city may not accept:
            1.   Land dedicated or obtained as easements for storm water
retention, drainage, roadway and other utility purposes;
            2.   Land which is not publicly accessible;
            3.   Land that is a protected wetlands/floodplain area; and
            4.   Land with steep slopes.
      (5)   Minimum size of park/rec and playground reservations.
         (a)   In general, land reserved for recreation purposes shall have an
area of at least two acres. The City Council may require that the recreation
area be located at a suitable place on the edge of the subdivision so that
additional land may be added at a time as the adjacent land is subdivided.
         (b)   Land reserved for recreation purposes shall be of character and
location suitable for use as a playground, playfield or for other recreation
purposes.
         (c)   It may have a slope of 4% or less. In addition, that portion of
the land must have cover of six inches or more of topsoil suitable for the
seeding and cultivation of grass at the time of dedication.
         (d)   The Planning Commission or City Council may refer proposed
dedications to the Park Board for recommendations.
      (6)   Trails/pathways. In addition, the City Council may require that
land be dedicated for pathways or a trail system to an existing park, school,
or public facility, consistent with the park and trail system plan.
      (7)   Prior to the dedication of the required property, the applicant
shall provide the city with an acceptable title opinion or title insurance
policy addressed to the city which insures the title and the city's proposed
interest in the property. In any dedication of required land, the applicant
must transfer good and marketable title to the city, free and clear of any
mortgages, liens, encumbrances or assessments, except easements or minor
imperfections of title acceptable to the city. If this land is not formally
dedicated to the city with the final plat, the applicant shall record all deeds
for conveyance of the property to the city at the same time as the final plat
or other appropriate division documents.
      (8)   The applicant shall stub water and sewer service to the land being
dedicated, level the land to an acceptable grade, ensure land has a cover of
six inches or more of topsoil suitable for the seeding and cultivation of
grass, and dedicate all parks, recreational facilities, and playgrounds to the
local government as a condition of final subdivision plat approval.
   (C)   Cash payment.
      (1)   The City Council shall have the sole discretion to accept cash
contributions in lieu of land dedication or may accept a combination of land
dedication and cash payment.
      (2)   Cash contributions shall be paid according to the city's adopted
fee schedule.
      (3)   Cash contributions shall be paid either at the time of recording of
the final plat or at the time a lot is sold, or as specified in the executed
development agreement.
      (4)   The deposit shall be placed in a park/recreation improvement fund
to be established by the City Council. The fund is to be used by the city to
acquire land for, or to improve, parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds,
trails, or public open space. Cash payments shall not be used for ongoing
operation or maintenance purposes.
      (5)   If the applicant disputes the amount of the proposed cash
contribution in lieu of land dedication, the park dedication fee shall be
determined as follows:
         (a)   The applicant shall obtain an appraisal of the market value of
the property at the time of final subdivision approval at their own expense.
The appraisal shall be made by approved members of the MAI, or equivalent real
estate societies.
         (b)   A percentage equal to the land to be dedicated as specified in
division (B) above shall be applied to the market value and shall be the park
dedication fee.
         (c)   If the city disputes such appraisal, the city may obtain an
appraisal of the property by a qualified real estate appraiser.
   (D)   Private open space. The provisions of this section are minimum
standards. None of the provisions above shall be construed as prohibiting an
applicant from reserving other land for recreation purposes in addition to the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.33 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded in accordance with
the provisions for construction as outlined in §§
153.21 through
153.29.
   (B)   All streets shall be improved in accordance with the Standard
Specifications for street construction as required by the City Council.
   (C)   All streets to be surfaced shall be of an overall width in accordance
with the Standard Specifications for construction as approved by the City
Council. The portion of the right-of-way outside the area surfaced shall be
seeded or sodded by the applicant. Streets shall be accepted by the city upon
the completion of the second lift of bituminous. Occupancy permits shall be
withheld until the completion of the first lift or as determined by the City
Engineer. The second lift of bituminous shall be completed within six months
after the first lift has completed one freeze-thaw cycle.
   (D)   Where required, the concrete curb and gutter shall be constructed in
accordance with the Standard Specifications for street construction as set
forth and approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Boulevard sodding shall be planted in conformance with the Standard
Specifications as required
by the City Council.
   (F)   Street signs of the design approved by the City Council shall be
installed at each street intersection.
   (G)   The City Council, as recommended by the Planning Commission, may
require the provision of sidewalks on arterials and collectors and other
streets in proximity to public service areas such as parks, schools, shopping
facilities or in other appropriate locations of a similar nature. The design of
the sidewalks shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
sidewalks, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to
runoff of storm water and to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (H)   Street lighting fixtures as may be required by the City Council shall
be installed.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.34 SANITARY SEWER AND WATER DISTRIBUTION IMPROVEMENTS.
   Sanitary sewers and water facilities shall be installed in accordance with
Standard Specifications as required by the City Council and subject to the
approval of the City Engineer.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.35 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No plat shall be approved before an adequate storm water management
plan is presented and approved by the City Council.
   (B)   The grade and drainage requirements for each plat shall be approved by
the City Engineer at the expense of the applicant. Every plat presented for
final signature shall be accompanied by a certificate of the City Engineer that
the grade and drainage requirements have been met on the grading plan.
   (C)   In an area not having municipal storm sewer, the applicant shall be
responsible for providing a storm water management plan, without damage to
properties outside the platted area. Said storm water management plan shall be
submitted to the City Engineer, who shall report to the City Council on the
feasibility of the plan presented.
   (D)   The use of dry wells for the purpose of storm water disposal is
prohibited.
   (E)   Storm drainage facilities shall be installed in accordance with the
MPCA NPDES standards and city Standard Specifications as required by the City
Council and subject to the approval of the City Engineer. In providing such
facilities, specific attention shall be given to culvert locations, trash
guards, rip rap, and in-place storm drainage facilities.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.36 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Telephone, electric, cable TV, and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground in accordance with the provisions of all applicable city
ordinances. All necessary utility easements must be recorded prior to utility
installation.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.37 IMPROVEMENT INSTALLATION.
   Improvements associated with the subdivision shall be installed in
accordance with one of the following methods:
   (A)   Private installation.
      (1)   No applicant shall be permitted to start work on any subdivision
improvements without entering into a development contract and posting a city-
approved financial security.
         (a)   The development contract shall require the applicant to furnish
and construct said improvements at their sole cost and in accordance with
approved plans and specifications and usual contract conditions.
         (b)   This shall include provision for inspection of the construction
of the public improvements by the City Engineer.
      (2)   The contract shall require the applicant to post a financial
security consisting of an escrow deposit, irrevocable letter of credit,
certified check, or bond with the city, guaranteeing performance in accordance
with the terms of the development contract. The type, conditions, and terms of
the financial security must be reviewed by the City Attorney and approved by
the City Council. The amount of the security is to be based on the City
Engineer's estimate of the total cost of the improvements to be furnished under
the contract, including but not limited to: sanitary sewer, water main, on-site
storm sewer, streets, sidewalk, trail, pedestrian way, grading, and erosion
control. The project costs must be reviewed by city staff. The security amount
shall be consistent with the Security Policy for Development Agreements.
      (3)   If evidence is presented that the described improvements have been
paid for, the amount of the deposit or bond may be reduced in a sum equal to
the estimated cost of the improvements so completed prior to the acceptance of
the plat.
      (4)   The schedule for completion of the work described in the final plat
and the development agreement shall be determined by the City Council, upon
recommendation of the City Engineer, and after consultation with the applicant.
The schedule shall be reasonable with relation to the work to be done, the
seasons of the year, and proper coordination with construction activities in
the plat and subdivision.
      (5)   Improvements shall be constructed only in platted real estate.
Utilities and streets shall extend to plat boundaries to provide for future
extensions.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.38 DEPOSIT BY APPLICANT.
   In order to defray part of the costs incurred by the city in review by the
City Engineer of the plans, specifications and design of the proposed
improvements, and the inspection of the actual installation and construction of
said improvements, the applicant shall, before proceeding with any construction
or installation, present a certified check or money order made payable to the
city in an amount determined annually by the City Council.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.41 COMMON PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to file applications. Subdivision applications may be
initiated by:
      (1)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the application;
      (2)   An agent authorized by the owner of the property that is the
subject of the application, which may include a lessee of the property.
Evidence of such authorization shall be the signature of the property owner; or
      (3)   If the property subject to an application is under more than one
ownership, all owners or their authorized agents shall jointly file the
application.
   (B)   Application fees.
      (1)   A subdivision application shall be accompanied by a fee established
by city ordinance to pay for costs associated with the application processing
and review. Said fee ordinance will be annually reviewed and updated.
      (2)   Any and all expenses incurred by the city for engineering,
planning, legal, or other services related to the review and processing of the
subdivision application that exceeds the established application fee shall be
collected from the applicant.
      (3)   No application shall be deemed complete for processing until the
necessary fee has been paid.
      (4)   The city may reject an application if the fee has not been paid.
   (C)   Coordination of applications.
      (1)   Depending on the requirements of this chapter, multiple
applications may be required for a single development.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall determine the order of application
review based on this code, including this chapter, and state requirements.
Where possible, applications shall be reviewed simultaneously.
   (D)   Deadline for action.
      (1)   In compliance with M.S. § 462.358, the city shall take action to
preliminarily approve or deny a subdivision application within 120 days
following delivery of an application completed in compliance with this chapter,
unless an extension for the review period has been agreed to by the applicant.
      (2)   In compliance with M.S. § 462.358, the city shall certify final
approval of a subdivision application within 60 days if the applicant has
complied with all conditions and requirements of applicable regulations and the
preliminary approval.
   (E)   Public hearings and notices.
      (1)   Public hearings are required by this chapter and shall be conducted
pursuant to the rules established for each of the bodies, this code, and in
compliance with state law.
      (2)   All public hearings shall be open to the public.
      (3)   Notices.
         (a)   Notice of the public hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
         (b)   Written notification of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten
days prior to the date of the hearing to all owners of land within 350 feet of
the boundary of the property in question.
         (c)   Written notification of the application and hearing shall be
filed with the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources if
the proposed subdivision is located in part or in total within the Shoreland
Overlay District.
         (d)   Written notification of the application and hearing shall be
filed with the Commissioner of the State Department of Transportation and the
County Engineer if the proposed subdivision abuts or includes a state trunk
highway or a county state aid road, respectively.
      (4)   Failure of the city to send mailed notice to property owners, or
defects in the notice, shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth
within this chapter, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with
the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Disqualification/denial of plats.
      (1)   Denial of plat.
         (a)   The City Council may deny any subdivision if it makes any one or
more of the following findings:
            1.   The proposed subdivision is in conflict with adopted
applicable general and specific comprehensive plans of the city.
            2.   The physical characteristics of this site, including but not
limited to topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design or use contemplated.
            3.   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density
of development.
            4.   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause environmental damage.
            5.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements are
likely to cause public health problems.
            6.   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record or with easements established by judgement of
a court.
            7.   The proposed subdivision, its site, or its design adversely
affects the flood carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or within
other areas of the city.
            8.   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies and
standards of the state-defined Shoreland, Floodplain and Wetland Districts.
            9.   The City Council deems the subdivision to be premature.
            10.   The design of the subdivision does not conform to minimum
city standards.
         (b)   No application which has been denied wholly or in part may be
resubmitted for at least one year from the date of its original submittal,
unless the Zoning Administrator determines that substantial changes have been
made which warrant reconsideration.
      (2)   Premature subdivisions.
         (a)   Any preliminary or final plat of a proposed subdivision deemed
premature for development shall be denied by the City Council.
         (b)   The burden shall be upon the applicant to show that the proposed
subdivision is not premature.
         (c)   A subdivision may be deemed premature should any of the
following conditions exist:
            1.   Lack of adequate drainage. A condition of inadequate drainage
shall be deemed to exist if:
               a.   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such
that it constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed
structures and/or adjacent properties.
               b.   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water
sources or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
               c.   The proposed site grading and development will cause
harmful and irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downstream land.
               d.   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include:
                  i.   Average rainfall for the area;
                  ii.   The relation of the land to floodplains;
                  iii.   The nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to
adequately support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems;
                  iv.   The slope of the land and its effect on effluents; and
                  v.   The presence of streams as related to effluent disposal.
            2.   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be
deemed to lack an adequate water supply if municipal water is not available to
the plat. With the extension of municipal water, all private wells must be
capped in accordance with state statutes.
            3.   Lack of adequate roads or highways to serve the subdivision. A
proposed subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate roads or highways to
serve the subdivision when:
               a.   Roads which serve the proposed subdivision are of such a
width, grade, stability, vertical and horizontal alignment, site distance and
surface condition that an increase in traffic volume generated by the proposed
subdivision would create a hazard to public safety and general welfare, or
seriously aggravate an already hazardous condition, and when, with due regard
to the advice of the City Engineer, Winona County and/or the Minnesota
Department of Transportation, said roads are inadequate for the intended use.
               b.   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision
would create unreasonable street congestion or unsafe conditions on streets
existing at the time of the application or proposed for completion within the
next two years.
               c.   The roads fail to meet minimum city standards.
            4.   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed
subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if
municipal sanitary sewer is not available to the plat or if in subdivisions for
which sewer lines are proposed, there is inadequate sewer capacity in the
present system to support the subdivision if developed to its maximum
permissible density indicated in the city’s Comprehensive Plan, as may be
amended.
            5.   Inconsistency with Comprehensive Plan. The proposed
subdivision is inconsistent with the purposes, objectives, and recommendations
of the duly adopted Comprehensive Plan of the city, as may be amended.
            6.   Providing public improvements. If public improvements, such as
recreational facilities, or other public facilities, reasonably necessitated by
the subdivision, which must be provided at public expense, cannot be reasonably
provided for within the next two fiscal years.
            7.   Minnesota Environmental Quality Board (MEQB) policies. The
proposed subdivision is inconsistent with MEQB policies and could adversely
impact critical environmental areas or potentially disrupt or destroy historic
areas which are designated or officially recognized by the City Council in
violation of federal and state historical preservation laws.
   (G)   Withdrawal of application.
      (1)   Any request for withdrawal of an application shall be submitted in
writing to the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In all cases where the applicant has requested withdrawal of an
application, the associated fee paid and any costs incurred by the city in the
processing of the application shall not be refunded.
   (H)   Recording of subdivisions. No plat or subdivision shall be entitled to
record in the Winona County Recorder's Office or have any validity until the
plat thereof has been prepared, approved, and acknowledged in the manner
prescribed by this chapter.
   (I)   Registered land surveys.
      (1)   All registered land surveys shall be filed and reviewed subject to
the same procedures as required for a preliminary plat for platting purposes.
The standards and requirements set forth in these regulations shall apply to
all registered land surveys.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall first approve the arrangement, sizes,
and relationships of proposed tracts in such registered land surveys, and
tracts to be used as easements or roads should be so dedicated.
      (3)   Unless a recommendation and approval have been obtained from the
Planning Commission and City Council respectively, in accordance with the
standards set forth in this division, building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys,
and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair, or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
   (J)   Conveyance by metes and bounds.
      (1)   Except in unique situations as may be allowed by the City Council,
no division of one or more parcels in which the land conveyed is described by
metes and bounds shall be made or recorded unless the parcels described in the
conveyance are two and one-half acres or less in area and 150 feet or less in
width or unless such parcel was a separate parcel of record at the effective
date thereof.
      (2)   Unless a recommendation and approval have been obtained from the
Planning Commission and City Council respectively, in accordance with the
standards set forth in this division, building permits will be withheld for
buildings on tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by this method, and
the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve,
repair, or maintain any such tracts unless so approved.
   (K)   Building permits.
      (1)   No building permits shall be considered for issuance by the city
for the construction of any building, structure, or improvement to the land or
to any lot in a subdivision as defined herein, until all requirements of this
chapter have been fully complied with.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for outlots, except in the case
of public park facilities and essential services.
   (L)   Appeals.
      (1)   The City Council shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and hear
and decide any appeals of the Zoning Administrator's interpretation of this
chapter.
      (2)   All decisions made by the City Council regarding subdivision shall
be final, except that any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal to
the District Court in Winona County within 30 days after delivery of the
decision to the appellant. Any person seeking judicial review under this
chapter must serve the city and all necessary parties, including any
landowners, within the 30-day period defined above.
   (M)   Amendments. The provisions of this chapter shall be amended by the
city following a legally advertised public hearing before the Planning
Commission and in accordance with the law, including the rules and regulations
of any applicable state or federal agency.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.42 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Applicability. An application for a minor subdivision shall be
submitted to the city when any of the following apply:
      (1)   Adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary
without increasing or decreasing the number of parcels and where all parcels
are consistent with the requirements of this chapter and
Chapter 152;
      (2)   Combination of recorded platted lots;
      (3)   In the case of a request to divide a base lot upon which a two-unit
dwelling, townhouse or quadraminium, which is a part of a recorded plat where
the division is to permit individual private ownership of a single dwelling
unit within such a structure and the newly created property lines will not
cause any of the unit lots or the structure to be in violation of this chapter
or
Chapter 152; or
      (4)   Division of a single platted lot to create no more than two lots
where the newly created property line will not cause the remaining portion of
the lot or any structure to be in violation of this chapter or
Chapter 152 Zoning.
   (B)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   Complete application and fee as specified in city's fee schedule.
      (2)   Deposit or escrow security to pay review costs of the city staff
and consultants.
      (3)   Proof of ownership of the property.
      (4)   Existing and proposed legal descriptions for the property provided
as Word document(s).
      (5)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of a survey
prepared and signed by a registered land surveyor which includes:
         (a)   North arrow, scale, and date of preparation.
         (b)   Proposed name of subdivision.
         (c)   Original and proposed lot boundaries and dimensions.
         (d)   Acreage of site.
         (e)   Layout, numbers, and dimensions of parcels.
         (f)   Location of existing structures on the site.
         (g)   Location and dimensions of curb cuts and driveways.
         (h)   Street layout on and adjacent to subdivision.
         (i)   Existing and proposed easement locations.
         (j)   Significant topographical or physical features.
      (6)   Title search showing any existing deed restrictions.
      (7)   Additional information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Review process.
      (1)   Minor subdivisions according to divisions (A)(1), (A)(2), and (A)
(3).
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and
required informational submissions to determine conformance with the zoning and
subdivision ordinances.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to make a
final decision on the application. The Zoning Administrator may choose refer
the application to the Planning Commission and City Council as described in
division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Minor subdivisions according to division (A)(4).
         (a)   Upon receipt of the completed application and required
informational submissions, the Zoning Administrator shall set a date for review
of the minor subdivision by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Before a minor subdivision shall be recorded or be of any
validity, it shall be referred to the City Planning Commission for review and
recommendation, then forwarded to the City Council for consideration and final
approval. A public hearing is not required for minor subdivision review.
      (3)   Following the approval or denial of the application, the Zoning
Administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the decision
and reasons for approval or denial.
   (D)   Design standards. The minor subdivision shall conform to all design
standards as specified in this chapter. Any proposed deviation from said
standards shall require the processing of a variance request.
   (E)   Expiration of approval.
      (1)   City approval for a minor subdivision shall become null and void
if, within one year after such approval, the minor subdivision has not been
duly filed and recorded with the Winona County Recorder's Office.
      (2)   Prior to the expiration of a minor subdivision approval, an
extension of the approval may be granted by the City Council upon the city's
receipt of a request for extension. A request for an extension shall be in
writing and filed with the city. There shall be no charge for the filing of
such request. The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt was made to meet the recording requirement.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.43 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Applicability. In order to ensure that applicants are informed of the
procedural requirements and minimum standards of this chapter and the
requirements or limitations imposed by other city ordinances, code provisions,
or plans prior to the development of a preliminary plat, any applicant may
present a sketch plan to the Zoning Administrator prior to filing a preliminary
plat.
   (B)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   Complete application and fee as specified in city's fee schedule.
      (2)   Deposit or escrow security to pay review costs of the city staff
and consultants.
      (3)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of a sketch
plan for the site showing the proposed development or use containing, at a
minimum, the following information:
         (a)   North arrow.
         (b)   Scale.
         (c)   Property boundary.
         (d)   General lot locations and layout.
         (e)   Street layout on and adjacent to plat.
         (f)   Proposed zoning.
         (g)   Significant topographical or physical features, if appropriate.
      (4)   Written narrative explaining the proposed concept.
      (5)   Additional information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Review process.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the sketch plan application
for adherence to site design considerations such as curb cuts, lot size, block
size, encroachment on wetlands or steep slopes, and circulation.
         (a)   If deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator, the City
Engineer and Planner may review and comment on the sketch plan.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to refer the
sketch plan to the Planning Commission and/or City Council for review and
comment.
      (2)   After the review, the Zoning Administrator will inform the
applicant of its findings and suggest changes or improvements to the plan prior
to submittal of a preliminary plat.
      (3)   Comments on the sketch plan shall not be considered binding in
regard to subsequent plat review.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.44 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Applicability. A preliminary plat application shall be submitted to
the city when any of the following apply:
      (1)   The applicant is proposing to create three or more lots as part of
a subdivision;
      (2)   The applicant is proposing to change the exterior boundaries of an
existing plat;
      (3)   Successive divisions within a five-year period creating five or
more parcels or building sites (i.e. lots or outlots) of one to one and one-
half acres each year or less;
      (4)   The proposed subdivision includes the creation or installation of
any public improvements as identified in §§
153.31 through
153.46; or
      (5)   The proposed subdivision does not qualify to be processed as a non-
platted subdivision or minor subdivision.
   (B)   Submittal requirements. The preliminary plat shall be considered as
being officially submitted only when all of the following information
requirements are complied with and the appropriate fees paid.
      (1)   Complete application and fee as specified in city's fee schedule.
      (2)   Deposit or escrow security to pay review costs of the city staff
and consultants.
      (3)   Proof of ownership of the property.
      (4)   Documented authorization from the owner(s) of the property in
question to proceed with the requested subdivision.
      (5)   Existing legal descriptions for the property provided as Word
document(s).
      (6)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of the
following materials, along with any other necessary supplementary information:
         (a)   Existing conditions exhibit.
         (b)   Preliminary plat.
         (c)   Preliminary grading plan.
         (d)   Preliminary utility plan.
         (e)   Preliminary landscape plan.
         (f)   Additional information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (7)   The materials listed in division (B)(6) above shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   Requirements for all materials.
            1.   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions.
            2.   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section,
quarter section, or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal
description of the property.
            3.   Names and addresses of all persons having property interest,
the applicant, designer, and surveyor together with his or her license number.
            4.   Graphic scale or plat, not less than one inch to 100 feet.
            5.   North arrow.
            6.   Date of preparation.
         (b)   Existing conditions exhibit.
            1.   Topographic map with contour interval of two feet or less.
            2.   Property boundary lines.
            3.   Ownership of adjoining properties.
            4.   Existing zoning for land in and abutting subdivision.
            5.   Total acreage of the site.
            6.   Location, right-of-way width, and names of existing or platted
streets, parks, public lands, buildings and structures, easements and sections
and corporate lines.
            7.   Location and extent of tree cover, including identification of
significant trees.
            8.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities.
            9.   Existing easements, including pipelines and power lines.
            10.   Existing drainage patterns.
            11.   Delineated location and extent of wetlands and streams.
            12.   Ordinary high water mark of all water bodies.
         (c)   Preliminary plat.
            1.   Prepared and signed by registered land surveyor.
            2.   Property boundary and dimensions.
            3.   Total acreage of site.
            4.   Identify current and proposed property use.
            5.   Layout, numbers, lot areas, and dimensions of lots and blocks,
outlots.
            6.   Minimum front and side street building setback lines.
            7.   When lots are located on curve, the width of the lot at the
building setback line.
            8.   Layout of proposed streets showing the right-of-way widths,
and proposed names of streets in conformance with city and county street
identification policies.
            9.   Locations and widths of curb cuts, driveways, access roads,
alleys, sidewalks, and trails.
            10.   Location, dimension, and purpose of all easements.
            11.   Areas dedicated or reserved for public use (including
acreage).
            12.   Source of water supply.
         (d)   Grading plan.
            1.   Prepared and signed by licensed civil engineer.
            2.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground utilities and facilities within the tract and to a distance
of 100 feet beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and
locations of catch basins, manholes and hydrants shall also be shown.
            3.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of
not more than two feet. Watercourses, wetlands, woodland areas, rock outcrops,
power transmission poles and lines, and other significant features shall also
be shown.
            4.   One-hundred year flood elevations, the regulatory flood
protection, and boundaries of floodway and flood fringe areas, if known taking
into consideration the flood insurance study and flood insurance rate map.
            5.   A statement certifying the environmental condition of the site
including the presence of any hazardous substance as defined in M.S. § 115B.02,
subd. 8. Such statement may be required to be based upon an environmental
assessment of the site by an engineering firm acceptable to the city.
            6.   Grading plan with minimum two-foot contours which shall
include the proposed grading and drainage of the site, including provisions for
surface water ponding and drainage. Also to be stipulated are the building pad
locations, garage floor, first floor, and basement elevations of all
structures.
            7.   Layout of the proposed streets showing right-of-way widths,
centerline gradients, and typical cross sections.
            8.   Proposed fill, levees, channel modifications, and other
methods to overcome flood or erosion hazard areas in acceptance with the zoning
ordinance and by use of the 100-year flood profile and other supporting
technical data in the flood insurance study.
            9.   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development shall be completed. The plan shall include
gradients of waterways, design of erosion control measures, design of sediment
control measures, and landscaping of the erosion and sediment control system.
Such plans are to be in accordance with the city's Standard Specifications and
approved by the City Council.
            10.   When applicable, a "wetland systems impact plan" shall be
submitted which sets forth provisions for sediment control, water management,
maintenance of landscape features or any other efforts intended to maintain or
improve environmental quality within the wetland impact area. The plan shall
identify changes to be made in the natural condition of the earth and shall
minimize tree removal, ground cover change, loss of natural vegetation and
grade changes as much as possible.
            11.   When applicable, wetland mitigation efforts shall be
conducted with the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, Army Corps of
Engineers, or other pertinent agencies.
            12.   Provision for surface water disposal, ponding, drainage, and
flood control.
         (e)   Utility plan.
            1.   Prepared and signed by licensed civil engineer.
            2.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 100 feet
beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and locations of catch
basins, manholes and any hydrants shall also be shown.
            3.   Locations and routing of proposed sewer lines and water mains.
Identification of gravity, force main, and alternative service lines.
            4.   Water mains shall be provided to serve the subdivision by
extension of an existing community system. Service connections shall be stubbed
into the property line and all necessary fire hydrants shall also be provided.
Extensions of the public water supply system shall be designed so as to provide
public water in accordance with the standards of the St. Charles Water
Department.
            5.   Sanitary sewer mains and service connections shall be
installed in accordance with the standards of the city with regard to location,
size, and service type, subject to final review and approval of the City
Council.
      (8)   Supplementary information, including but not limited to, the
information set forth in this division, shall be submitted when deemed
necessary by the Zoning Administrator, consultants, advisory bodies and/or City
Council:
         (a)   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision prepared by a
licensed soils engineer to determine soil suitability for development.
         (b)   Proposed protective covenants.
         (c)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings
with number of proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as
to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards, and
congestion of population. The city may require the applicant to have formal
traffic or other studies performed to the city's satisfaction which shows the
effect of the proposed development on traffic, fire hazards, congestion or
other matters of public concern.
         (d)   If any zoning changes are proposed, the rezoning application
shall be processed in conjunction with the preliminary plat application
following the procedure described in § 152.47.
         (e)   All subdivisions shall be required to relate well with existing
or potential adjacent subdivisions. Where the applicant owns property adjacent
to that which is being proposed for the subdivision, it shall be required that
the applicant submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to
show the possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision.
         (f)   Where structures are to be placed on large or excessively deep
lots which are subject to potential replat, the preliminary plat shall indicate
a logical way in which the lots could possibly be re-subdivided in the future.
         (g)   When the city has agreed to install improvements in a
development, the applicant may
be required to furnish a financial statement satisfactory to the city
indicating the applicant's ability to develop the plat.
         (h)   An environmental assessment worksheet (EAW) shall be submitted
if the city, Minnesota Environmental Quality Board or other groups or agencies
determine that one is required by law.
         (i)   Applications, statements and supporting documentation and plans
for rezoning, variances, conditional use permits, or planned unit development
approvals being sought for the subdivision.
         (j)   Additional information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Review process.
      (1)   Submittal.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a complete application for
preliminary plat approval. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as
provided for by City Council ordinance and all required supplemental materials.
         (b)   Where appropriate, the Zoning Administrator will meet with the
applicant to discuss the request and related information.
         (c)   Upon receipt of all the required information, the Zoning
Administrator may forward the application and required information to the
appropriate city staff/consultants and city commissions for review and
technical reports. The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the
preliminary plat to the Park Board and/or county, state, or other public
jurisdictions for its review and comments, where appropriate and when required
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Hearing.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the application and all informational
requirements, the Zoning Administrator shall schedule a public hearing for
public review of the preliminary plat. The hearing shall be held by the
Planning Commission after adequate time has been allowed for city staff and the
advisory bodies review of the plat.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be published and mailed in
accordance with §
153.41(E).
         (c)   The applicant, or a designated representative thereof, is
encouraged to appear before the Planning Commission at the public hearing in
order to answer questions concerning the proposed request.
      (3)   Planning Commission action.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council following the close of the public hearing.
         (b)   If the Planning Commission has not acted upon the preliminary
plat, and the statutory review period will expire before the next regularly
scheduled Planning Commission meeting, the Council may act on the preliminary
plat without the Planning Commission's recommendation.
      (4)   City Council action.
         (a)   Upon completion of the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the request shall be placed on the agenda of the City Council. Such
reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the permanent
written record of the City Council meeting.
         (b)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall have the option to set and
hold a public hearing if deemed necessary or take action based on Planning
Commission recommendation. The City Council shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The City Council shall adopt a resolution approving
or denying the request and may impose conditions and restrictions which are
deemed appropriate.
         (c)   The Council shall approve or deny the preliminary plat within
120 days following submittal of a complete application unless an extension of
the review period has been agreed to by the applicant.
         (d)   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the City Council, the
reasons for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council. If
the preliminary plat is approved, such approval shall not constitute final
acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will be required of the
engineering proposals and other features and requirements as specified by this
chapter to be indicated on the final plat. The City Council may require such
revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems necessary for the
health, safety, general welfare and convenience of the city.
         (e)   The City Council reserves the right to deny a preliminary plat
if due regard is not shown for the preservation of all natural features, such
as topography, trees, watercourses, scenic points, prehistoric and historical
spots, and similar community assets which, if preserved, will add
attractiveness and stability to the proposed development of the property.
         (f)   Following the approval or denial of the preliminary plat, the
Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the
decision and reasons for approval or denial.
      (5)   Expiration and amendment. 
         (a)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be null and void unless
within one year after receiving the last required approval of the preliminary
plat, there shall be submitted to the city a final plat in accordance with the
conditions upon which such approval was granted by the Council. Prior to the
expiration of a preliminary plat approval, an extension of the approval may be
granted by the City Council upon the city's receipt of a request for extension.
A request for an extension shall be in writing and filed with the city. There
shall be no charge for the filing of such request. The request for extension
shall state facts showing a good faith attempt was made to meet the recording
requirement.
         (b)   Multi-phased developments.
            1.   In a multi-phased development, the initial final plat shall
subdivide all land included in the approved preliminary plat into lots, blocks,
and outlots.
            2.   Any outlot shown on the initial final plat must be submitted
for final plat review in accordance with an approved phasing plan or within
five years of the approval of the initial final plat or a new preliminary plat
shall be required. The phasing plan shall be approved at the time of
preliminary plat, and may be amended by Council at the applicant's request.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ada95d895e6e145973b3fc585ecb894d4f1819b3/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1068.jpg]
         (c)   In the event of changes to city, county, state, or federal
development regulations, the city may require a preliminary plat to be amended
to incorporate applicable changes, except as may be prohibited by Minnesota
Statutes.
         (d)   Should the applicant desire to amend an approved preliminary
plat, an amended preliminary plat may be submitted. The city may require the
applicant to follow the same procedure as a new preliminary plat. No public
hearing will be required for the amendment if the opinion of the Zoning
Administrator is that the scope of changes do not constitute a new preliminary
plat. A filing fee, as established by the city, shall be charged for the
amendment processing.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.45 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   Complete application and fee as specified in city's fee schedule.
      (2)   Deposit or escrow security to pay review costs of the city staff
and consultants.
      (3)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of the final
plat prepared in accordance with Minnesota State Statutes and Winona County
regulations and conforming with the approved preliminary plat. The final plat
shall incorporate all conditions or changes required by the City Council at the
time of preliminary plat review and contain the following information:
         (a)   Subdivision name.
         (b)   Name, address, phone number, and signature of surveyor making
the plat.
         (c)   Scale of plat not less than one inch to 100 feet (the scale to
be shown graphically on a bar scale), date, and north arrow.
         (d)   Existing and proposed legal descriptions of the property.
         (e)   Blocks and lots, clearly numbered.
         (f)   Locations of monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments.
         (g)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines.
         (h)   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
         (i)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: Streets, alleys and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated.
         (j)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
         (k)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: Easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the designated areas marked "drainage and utility
easements."
         (l)   Certificate required.
            1.   Certification by registered land surveyor in the form required
by M.S. § 505.03, as amended.
            2.   Execution of all owners of any interest in the land any
holders of a mortgage thereon of the certificates required by M.S. § 505.03, as
amended, and which certificate shall include a dedication of the utility
easements and other public areas in such form as approved by the City Council.
            3.   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in
by the signatures of the Mayor and City Administrator.
      (4)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of the
revised preliminary plat if changes were required by the City Council at the
time of preliminary plat review.
      (5)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of all
applicable final plan sets including, but not limited to, final grading,
utility, and landscaping plans.
      (6)   A current abstract of title or a registered property certificate or
in lieu thereof, at the option of the City Attorney, a commitment for title
insurance from a title insurance carrier authorized to conduct business in this
state along with any unrecorded documents to be certified by the City Attorney.
      (7)   Deed restrictions and protective covenants which involve a matter
of public concern.
      (8)   Additional information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Review process.
      (1)   Submittal.
         (a)   A final plat subdividing an approved preliminary plat into lots,
blocks, and outlots shall be submitted within one year of preliminary plat
approval.
         (b)   The city may agree to review the preliminary and final plat
simultaneously.
         (c)   The final plat shall incorporate all changes, modifications, and
revisions required by the city in its approval of the preliminary plat.
Otherwise, it shall strictly conform to the approved preliminary plat.
      (2)   City Council action.
         (a)   Such final plat, together with the development agreement, shall
be submitted to the City Council for consideration. Such reports and
recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the permanent written
record of the City Council meeting.
         (b)   If accepted, the final plat and development agreement shall be
approved by resolution, which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of
all agreements for basic improvements, public dedication, and other
requirements as indicated by the City Council.
         (c)   If disapproved, the grounds for refusal to approve a plat shall
be set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported in writing to the
person or persons applying for such approval.
      (3)   Development agreement.
         (a)   Final plat approval shall be contingent upon the applicant's
entrance into a development agreement with the city. Said agreement will
require all improvements and approval conditions to comply with approved
engineering standards and applicable regulations.
         (b)   The agreement shall be prepared by the city and shall ensure
development performance based on approvals.
         (c)   The agreement shall address, but not be limited to, the
following:
            1.   Financial securities.
            2.   Warranties.
            3.   Development time lines.
            4.   Remedies for default.
            5.   Iron monuments.
            6.   Improvements.
            7.   City administration and construction observation.
            8.   Permits.
            9.   Erosion and sediment control.
            10.   Maintenance.
            11.   Park dedication.
            12.   Sewer and water trunk utility charges.
         (d)   Prior to recording or registering a final plat, the applicant
shall have executed the development agreement with the city.
      (4)   Special assessments.
         (a)   When any existing special assessments which have been levied
against the property described are to be divided and allocated to the
respective lots in the proposed plat, the Zoning Administrator shall:
            1.   Estimate the clerical cost of preparing a revised assessment
role;
            2.   File the same with the County Auditor; and
            3.   Make such division and allocation.
         (b)   Upon approval by the Council of all costs associated with the
development and filing of the assessment role, the same shall be paid to the
Zoning Administrator before recording the final plat at Winona County.
      (5)   Street addresses. The city shall assign street names and address
numbers.
      (6)   Recording final plat.
         (a)   If the final plat and development agreement are approved by the
City Council, the city shall record them with the Winona County Recorder once
all conditions of the final plat have been met and a development agreement has
been executed.
         (b)   Prior to the expiration of a final plat approval, an extension
of the approval may be granted by the City Council upon the city's receipt of a
request for extension. A request for an extension shall be in writing and filed
with the city. There shall be no charge for the filing of such request. The
request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt was made
to meet the recording requirement.
         (c)   No building permits shall be let for construction of any
structure on any lot in said plat until the city has received evidence of the
plat and development agreement being recorded by Winona County and the
provisions of the subdivision's development agreement have been satisfactorily
met.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.46 SUBDIVISION VARIANCE.
   (A)   Applicability.
      (1)   Subdivisions which do not meet the requirements of this chapter may
request a subdivision variance.
      (2)   Findings. The Planning Commission may recommend a variance from the
minimum standards of this chapter (not procedural provisions) when, in its
opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance.
      (3)   Conditions. In recommending any variance, the Commission shall
prescribe any conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public
interest. In making its recommendations, the Planning Commission shall take
into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of
land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   Complete application and fee as specified in city's fee schedule.
      (2)   Deposit or escrow security to pay review costs of the city staff
and consultants.
      (3)   Proof of ownership of the property.
      (4)   Legal description of the property.
      (5)   One large-scale paper copy and one digital submission of written
and graphic materials explaining the proposed variance request.
      (6)   Explanation of undue hardship.
      (7)   Additional information as determined necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Review process.
      (1)   Submittal.
         (a)   The applicant shall submit a complete application for variance
approval. The application shall be accompanied by a fee as provided for by City
Council ordinance and all required supplemental materials.
         (b)   Where appropriate, the Zoning Administrator will meet with the
applicant to discuss the request and related information.
         (c)   Upon receipt of all the required information, the Zoning
Administrator may forward the application and required information to the
appropriate city staff/consultants and city commissions for review and
technical reports. The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the variance
to the Park Board and/or county, state, or other public jurisdictions for its
review and comments, where appropriate.
      (2)   Hearing.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the application and all informational
requirements, the Zoning Administrator shall schedule a public hearing for
public review of the variance. The hearing shall be held by the Planning
Commission after adequate time has been allowed for city staff and advisory
body review of the request.
         (b)   Notice of the hearing shall be published and mailed in
accordance with §
153.41(E).
         (c)   The applicant, or a designated representative thereof, is
encouraged to appear before the Planning Commission at the public hearing in
order to answer questions concerning the proposed request.
      (3)   Planning Commission action.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council following the close of the public hearing.
         (b)   If the Planning Commission has not acted upon the variance, and
the statutory review period will expire before the next regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting, the Council may act on the variance without the
Planning Commission's recommendation.
      (4)   City Council action.
         (a)   Upon completion of the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the request shall be placed on the agenda of the City Council. Such
reports and recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the permanent
written record of the City Council meeting.
         (b)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall have the option to set and
hold a public hearing if deemed necessary or take action based on Planning
Commission recommendation. The City Council shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The City Council shall adopt a resolution approving
or denying the request and may impose conditions and restrictions which are
deemed appropriate.
         (c)   In approving a variance, the City Council may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
         (d)   If the variance is not approved by the City Council, the reasons
for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council.
         (e)   Following the approval or denial of the variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall provide the applicant with written notice of the decision
and reasons for approval or denial.
   (D)   Review criteria. The City Council may grant a variance from strict
compliance with the subdivision regulations contained in this chapter when it
finds that all of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   That the requested variance is in harmony with the general purposes
and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   That the requested subdivision variance is consistent with the the
city’s Comprehensive Plan and all other applicable city plans;
      (3)   That the approval of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to the community health, safety, or general welfare and will not
materially impair the purposes of the subdivision regulations or the public
interest;
      (4)   That the applicant has established that there are special
circumstances or conditions affecting the property not resulting from the
actions of the applicant, such as exceptional topographic or water conditions
or inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems, such that an
unusual hardship to the owner would result if the strict letter of these
regulations was to be carried out;
      (5)   That literal interpretation of the provisions of the chapter would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this chapter;
      (6)   That granting the variance requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this chapter to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district; and
      (7)   That the variance will not in any manner vary from the provisions
of
Chapter 152.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be misdemeanor to
sell, trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with any plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless said plan, plat, or replat shall
have first been recorded in the Office of the Recorder of Winona County.
      (2)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful for a
private individual to receive or record in any public office any plans or plats
of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys, or other portions of the
same intended to be dedicated to public or private use or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
      (3)   Misrepresentations. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person owning
an addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys, or avenues of the addition or
subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when the improvements have not been
so constructed, supervised, or inspected.
   (B)   Penalty. Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each month during which compliance is delayed shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 662, passed 10-10-2024)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
154.01   Adoption of flood plain management regulations
§ 154.01 ADOPTION OF FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS.
   The flood plain management regulations, copies of which are on file in the
office of the Deputy Clerk, are adopted and incorporated as part of this code
of ordinances as fully as if set out at length herein.
(Ord. 505, passed –)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   STREETS, EASEMENTS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
II.   GRANTS, FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING
TABLE I: STREETS, EASEMENTS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
471  6-24-  Renames certain streets
     2003
     9-28-  Adopts a pole-free zone on either side of Whitewater Avenue between
485  2004   Fourteenth and Fifteenth Streets, for 1 block; pole-free meaning without
            utility poles
495  6-13-  Vacates easement over Lots 5 and 6 of the Ives and Fox’s Addition to the
     2006   city
538  8-11-  Renaming a street located between West 12th Street and Highway 14 running
     2010   north and south along the western county border to West Avenue
     8-23-  Vacating the portion of Ninth Street which lies west of Richland Avenue
547  2011   for 155 feet, reserving to the city approximately the remaining 155 feet
            east of Church Avenue
552  - -    Vacating a public right-of-way, commencing at the Southeast corner of Lot
     2012   73
556  10-9-  Renaming Connection Street (located along Whispering Hills Drive) to
     2012   Cottonwood Drive
568  3-25-  Vacating all of Gladiola Drive, Iris Circle and all drainage and utility
     2014   easements on the plat of Whispering Greens Addition
            Vacating the southerly 5-foot drainage easement of Lot 1, Block 2 and the
570  10-14- northerly 5-foot drainage easement of Lot 2, Block 2, excluding the
     2014   easterly 10 feet and the westerly 5 feet thereof, Whitewater Industrial
            Park Second Subdivision
580  10-27- Vacating the 20-foot-wide alley lying north of Lot 5 and south of Lots 1,
     2015   2, 3 and 4 in Block 9 of Birge’s First Addition
585  1-26-  Renaming Brubaker Drive (abuts up to Geib Blvd) to Geib Boulevard
     2016
600  4-24-  Vacating a portion of drainage and utility easements of Lots 2, 3, 4, and
     2018   5 of Block 3 on the plat of Chattanooga Innovation Park
602  6-26-  Vacating a public alley described as the 20-foot wide alley located within
     2018   Block 2 of Fairview Addition
609  - -    Establishing a veterans memorial located at northwest corner of 11th
     2019   Street and Whitewater Avenue, and setting use regulations therefor
            Renaming South Park Road to Jessens Drive and South Park Road as platted
617  2-24-  on Subdivision plat of Countryside Acres and continuing to the south line
     2020   of the SE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 Section 29, Township 106, Range 10 to Park
            Road.
622  5-26-  Vacating part of 9th Street which lies west of the west line of Richland
     2020   Avenue and east of the east line of Church Avenue.
623  7-28-  Vacating utility easements of Lot 1, Block 3 and Lot 2, Block 3 of
     2020   Chattanooga Innovation Park.
633  8-24-  Vacating all drainage and utility easements on Outlot A of the replat of
     2021   South Fork Addition.
           
 
TABLE II: GRANTS, FRANCHISES AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
-    - -    Grants a franchise to DD Holdings, Inc. (1987 Code, Ch. 4 part 5)
-    - -    Grant to Peoples Natural Gas Company, a division of Inter North, Inc. (1987
            Code, § 408.01)
464  10-22- Grants a franchise to Hiawatha Broadband Communications, Inc. of Winona,
     2002   Minnesota
     6-28-  Extending the expiration date of the cable television franchise agreement with
545  2011   Mediacom Minnesota LLC (“Mediacom”) to March 31, 2017, and authorizing the
            construction and operation of a cable communication system
     9-11-  Extending the expiration date of the cable television franchise agreement with
603  2018   Mediacom Minnesota LLC to October 1, 2033 and authorizing the construction and
            operation of a cable communication system
           
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexes 10 acres of land located in a part of the
469      5-13-2003   northeast quarter of Section 20, Township 106 North, Range
                     10 West, Winona County
                     Annexes 20 acres of land located a part of the southeast
470      5-13-2003   quarter of Section 20, and 40 acres of land located in
                     part of the southwest quarter of Section 21
                     Annexes 17.46 acres of land located in a part of the
472      8-12-2003   northwest quarter of Section 17; and land located in a
                     part of the northeast quarter of Section 18
474      10-14-2003  Annexes 15.34 acres of land located in a part of the
                     southwest quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 17
                    
 
TABLE IV: ZONING
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     7-8-   All of Lots 5 through 20 and Lots 26 through 42 all in Block 1 of Sunny Meadows
425  1997   according to the recorded plat, and that part of Lot 21 in Block 1 of the Sunny
            Meadows are rezoned to the R-2 Multi-family District
     10-14- A part of Lots 73 and 75, commencing at the southeast corner of the southwest
426  1997   quarter, also being the southeast corner of Lot 73, rezoned to C-2 Service
            Commercial District
     3-10-  The south half of the southeast quarter and the south half of the northeast
433  1998   quarter of the southeast quarter all in Section 17 rezoned to R-1 Single-family
            District
            Lot 1 in Block 1 and Lot 1 in Block 2 in the Whitewater Industrial Park
446  4-11-  Subdivision rezoned to the C-2 Service Commercial District; and Lots 2 through 6
     2000   in Block 1, Lots 2 and 3 in Block 2 in the Whitewater Industrial Park
            subdivision rezoned to I-2 General Industrial District
447  5-9-   The west 1/2 of Block 22, original plat, rezoned to C-2 Service Commercial
     2000   District
516  7-8-   Lots 2 and 3 in Block 46, original plat, rezoned to C-1 Central Business; and
     2008   Lots 6 and 7 in Block 46, original plat, rezoned to C-1 Central Business
555  7-10-  Lots 5 and the South 4 feet of Lot 4 in Block 39, original plat, rezoned from R-
     2012   1 Single Family Residential District to C-2 Service Commercial District
564  11-26- A parcel of land at 943 Wabasha Avenue rezoned from Light Industrial I-1 to
     2013   Mixed Use Residential R-3
            Rezoning the following parcels from I-1 Light Industry to C-I Downtown
     6-23-  Commercial District:
578  2015      (1)   Four parcels in the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of
            Section 19, Township 106 North, Range 10, West of the Fifth Principal Meridian;
               (2)   All or part of Lots 1-6 in Block 6 of Birge’s Addition
588  9-27-  Rezoning real property owned by Jason Giem and Shane Kastenscmidt, from I-
     2016   1 Light Industrial to C-1 Downtown Commercial District
597  2-27-  Zoning annexed 17-acre Heim property as R-1 Single Family Residential
     2018
608  2-12-  Rezoning real property owned by Dan and Jill Christie, from A-1 Agriculture to
     2019   R-1 Single Family Residential
631  4-13-  Zoning annexed property located within St. Charles Twp as C-3 Regional
     2021   Commercial District
640  8-23-  Rezoning real property owned by SEMMCHRA, from C-2 Service Commercial to R-
     2022   1 Single Family Residential
652  3-14-  Rezoning real property owned by Fredrick and Sandra Troendle, from I-2 General
     2023   Industry to R-2 Multi-Family Residential
654  7-25-  Rezoning real property owned by Patrick and Wendy Heim, from R1-M Modular and
     2023   Mobile Home Residential to I-2 General Industry
660  9-10-  Rezoning parcels 290602930 and 290450400, from R-1 One and Two Family
     2024   Residential to C-2 Service Commercial
668  11-26- Rezoning parcels 290100622 and 290100623, from I-1 Light Industry to C-1 Central
     2024   Business
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to 1987 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
 
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                         Code Section
12.25                                32.01;
                                     32.04
12.31                                32.06
12.43                                33.18
14                                   113.24
14.57–14.69                        113.31
16B.59 et seq.                       52.04
16B.59–16B.75                      151.01
16B.62, subdivision 1                151.01
16B.65, subdivision 1                151.01
16B.70                               151.01
18.022                               91.08
60A.07, subdivision 4                113.03
60A.206                              113.03
65B.48, subdivision 5                70.11
69                                   33.37
84.81                                70.02
84.81–84.90                        70.08
84.92, subdivision 8                 70.02
88.16–88.22                        90.70
97.611                               92.060
97A.015, subdivision 19              130.30
103G.291                             51.04
115B.02, subdivision 8               153.44
120A.05                              115.002
120A.24                              115.002
144.382, subdivision 4               51.04
144.391                              111.01
144.417                              115.039
145A.05                              113.23
151.72, subdivision 76               115.073
157.12                               33.17
157.16                               113.01
157.16, subdivision 3(d)             113.01
168.33                               30.09
169                                  70.01
169.01                               70.02
169.011, subdivision 40a             70.02
169.045                              70.11
169.045, subdivision 1(3)            70.02
169.222                              70.09
169.68                               94.01
169.70                               70.11
169A.03, subdivision 15              113.23
171.05                               113.20
181                                  31.25;
                                     Ch. 152, App. A
192                                  31.13
216C.06, subdivision 14              152.46
216D                                 93.08
238                                  93.08
245.462, subdivision 23              115.002
299F                                 Ch. 152, App. A
325E.21, subd. 1(b)                  130.40
329                                  112.03
                                     113.02;
                                     113.03;
340A                                 113.09;
                                     113.29;
                                     115.068
340A.22                              113.01;
                                     113.02
340A.24, subdivision 2               113.01
340A.26                              113.01;
                                     113.02
340A.28                              113.02
340A.285                             113.02
340A.301                             113.01
340A.301, subdivision 6(a)           113.02
340A.301, subdivision 6(d)           113.02
340A.301, subdivision 6(c), (i), (j) 113.01;
                                     113.02
340A.310                             113.01
340A.404                             113.05
340A.404, subdivision 1(b)           113.02
340A.404, subdivision 5              113.05
340A.404, subdivision 12             113.02
340A.408, subdivision 2(a)           113.02
340A.408, subdivision 3(a)           113.02
340A.408, subdivision 5              113.03
340A.409                             113.02
340A.409, subdivisions 1 - 3(a)      113.02
340A.411                             113.02
340A.412                             113.04
340A.412, subdivision 10             113.20
340A.413, subdivisions 1, 4, 5       113.05
340A.414                             113.20
340A.414                             113.02
340A.418                             113.02
340A.503                             130.20
340A.504                             113.02;
                                     113.07
                                     113.09;
340A.509                             113.20;
                                     113.23
340A.801                             113.03
340A.4011, subdivision 1             113.02
340A.509                             130.30
                                     115.001;
                                     151.002;
                                     115.025;
                                     115.027;
342                                  115.040;
                                     115.063;
                                     115.066;
                                     115.999;
                                     152.02
342.01                               115.002;
                                     115.009
342.01, subdivision 50               115.002
342.01, subdivision 59               115.027
342.11                               115.026
342.13                               115.001;
                                     115.009
342.13(g)                            115.004
342.13(h)                            115.021
342.17                               115.002
342.22                               115.001;
                                     115.022
342.22, subdivision 5                115.006
342.22, subdivision 5(e)             115.999
342.24, subdivision 1(a)             115.007
342.24, subdivision 4                115.027;
                                     115.066
342.27                               115.038
342.27, subdivision 4                115.005
342.27, subdivision 9                115.036
342.27, subdivision 10               115.036
342.28, subdivision 10               115.039
342.31                               152.02
342.33                               152.02
342.35                               152.02
342.37                               152.02
342.39                               115.002
342.39, subdivision 2                115.092
342.40                               115.002
342.45                               152.02
343                                  92.001
343.21–343.28                      92.062
347.50–347.565                     92.080;
                                     92.083
347.57–347.64                      92.052
349                                  113.22
349.30                               113.22
364                                  31.02
410.33                               130.30
412.151                              51.04
412.221, subdivision 32              130.30
412.601 - 412.751                    51.04
415.11                               30.10
                                     52.05;
429                                  91.12;
                                     153.31
429.061                              90.24
                                     90.01;
                                     90.02;
                                     90.20;
429.101                              90.24;
                                     90.43;
                                     91.12;
                                     93.07
444.075                              50.09;
                                     50.10
444.075, subdivision 3               50.11
462                                  153.11
462.354                              33.02
462.357, subdivision 2               152.47
462.357, subdivision 6               152.46
462.358                              153.11;
                                     153.41
462.3593                             152.50
462.3593, subdivision 9              152.50
462.361                              152.46
463.15                               93.07
463.15–463.26                      90.01
463.17                               90.23
463.25                               93.07
505.03                               153.45
514.67                               90.01
611A.04                              130.99
617.241                              152.02;
                                     152.27
624.45                               114.03
624.47                               114.02
626.862                              10.20
645                                  10.21
                                     
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
 
Minn. Rules Section Code Section
6115.0211, Subp. 6b 152.76
                    90.18,
Ch. 7030            152.76,
                    152.77
7500.0100 et seq.   Ch. 152, Appendix A
7515                113.02
7515.1100           113.02
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1987 CODE
1987 Code 2007 Code
1987 Code     2007 Code
Appendix A    152.49
101.03        10.21
101.05        10.22
201.01        30.01
201.02        30.02
201.03        30.03
201.04        30.04
201.05        30.05
201.06        30.06
201.07        30.07
201.08        30.08
201.09        30.09
202.01        33.15
202.02        33.16
202.03        33.17
202.04        33.18
203.01        33.30
203.02        33.31
203.03        33.32
203.04        33.33
203.06        33.35
203.07        33.36
203.08        33.37
203.09        33.38
203.10        33.39
204.01        33.01
204.02        33.01
204.03        33.01
204.04        33.01
204.05        33.01
205.01        33.02
205.02        33.02
205.03        33.02
205.04        33.02
205.05        33.02
208.01        150.01
301.01        50.01
301.02        50.02
301.03        50.03
301.04        50.04
301.05        50.05
301.06        50.06
301.07        50.07
301.08        50.08
301.09        50.98
302.01        51.01
302.02        51.02
303.01        52.01
303.02        52.02
303.03        52.03
303.04        52.04
303.05        52.05
303.06        52.06
303.07        52.07
303.09        52.98
304.01        54.01
304.02        54.02
304.03        54.03
304.04        54.04
304.05        54.05
304.06        54.06
304.07        54.07
304.08        54.08
304.09        54.09
304.10        54.10
304.11        54.11
304.12        54.12
304.13        54.13
304.14        54.14
305.01        93.01
305.02        93.02
305.03        93.03
305.04        93.04
305.05        93.05
305.06        93.06
305.07        93.07
305.09        93.08
305.10        93.09
Ch. 4, part 5 TSO II
401.01        110.01
401.02        110.02
401.03        110.03
401.04        110.04
403.01        92.001
403.02        92.002
403.03        92.003
403.07        92.006
403.08        92.007
403.09        92.008
403.10        92.009
403.12        92.010
403.13        92.011
403.15        92.012
403.16        92.013
404.04        92.017
404.05        92.018
404.06        92.019
404.10        92.020
404.12        92.021
404.13        92.022
404.14        92.023
404.15        92.025
404.16        92.025
405.01        TSO II
405.02        TSO II
405.03        TSO II
405.04        TSO II
405.05        TSO II
405.06        TSO II
405.07        TSO II
405.08        TSO II
405.09        TSO II
405.10        TSO II
405.11        TSO II
405.12        TSO II
405.14        TSO II
405.13        TSO II
406.01        113.01
406.02        113.02
406.03        113.03
406.04        113.04
406.05        113.05
406.06        113.06
406.07        113.07
406.08        113.20
406.09        113.21
406.10        113.22
406.11        113.23
406.12        113.24
406.13        113.25
406.14        113.26
406.15        113.27
406.16        113.28
406.17        113.99
407.01        114.01
407.02        114.02
407.03        114.03
407.04        114.04
407.05        114.05
408.01        TSO II
410.01        53.35
410.02        53.36
410.03        53.37
410.04        53.38
410.05        53.39
410.06        53.40
410.07        53.41
410.08        53.42
410.09        53.43
410.10        53.44
410.11        53.45
410.12        53.99
501.01        70.01
501.02        70.02
501.03        70.03
501.04        70.04
501.05        70.05
501.06        70.06
501.07        70.07
501.08        70.08
501.09        70.09
501.12        70.12
501.13        70.13
602.01        91.01
602.02        91.02
602.03        91.03
602.04        91.04
602.05        91.05
602.06        91.06
602.07        91.07
602.08        91.08
602.09        91.09
602.10        91.10
602.11        91.11
602.12        91.12
602.13        91.13
602.14        91.14
602.15        91.15
603.01        92.095
603.02        92.096
605.01        53.20
605.02        53.21
605.03        53.22
605.04        53.23
606.01        92.055
606.02        92.056
606.03        92.057
606.04        92.058
606.05        92.059
606.06        92.060
606.07        92.061
606.08        92.062
606.09        92.063
606.10        92.064
606.11        92.065
608.01        53.01
608.02        53.02
608.03        53.03
608.04        53.04
608.05        53.05
701.01        152.01
701.02        152.02
702.01        152.15
702.02        152.16
702.03        152.17
702.04        152.18
702.05        152.19
702.06        152.20
702.07        152.21
702.08        152.22
702.09        152.23
702.10        152.25
702.11        152.26
702.12        152.27
702.13        152.28
702.14        152.29
703.01        152.40
703.02        152.41
703.03        152.42
703.04        152.43
703.05        152.44
703.06        152.45
703.07        152.46
703.08        152.47
703.09        152.48
703.10        152.49
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.      Date Passed Code Section
                          152.42;
–           - -         152.46;
                          TSO II
                          111.01-
428           - -         111.12;
                          111.98
486           - -         90.71
487           - -         90.71
225           9-8-1970    152.02
416           9-12-1996   70.11
417           9-12-1996   152.16
418           9-12-1996   152.17
419           9-12-1996   33.34
424, § 609.013-11-1997   92.080
424, § 609.023-11-1997   92.081
424, § 609.033-11-1997   92.082
424, § 609.043-11-1997   92.083
424, § 609.053-11-19978  92.084
425           7-8-1997    TSO IV
427           8-28-1997   113.32
426           10-14-1997  TSO IV
434           3-10-1998   152.41
433           3-10-1998   TSO IV
435           6-9-1998    152.40
437           9-8-1998    33.01
440           9-14-1999   113.22
442           11-9-1999   152.46
443           12-14-1999  94.01-
                          94.03
454           1-9-2000    33.02
446           4-11-2000   TSO IV
447           5-9-2000    TSO IV
448           7-11-2000   90.20
451           11-14-2000  31.04
452           11-14-2000  130.01-
                          130.04
464           10-22-2002  TSO II
466           2-24-2003   70.10
468           4-8-2003    151.01
                          31.01-
491           4-22-2003   31.13;
                          31.25-
                          31.32
469           5-13-2003   TSO III
470           5-13-2003   TSO III
471           6-24-2003   TSO I
472           8-12-2003   TSO III
473           9-9-2003    152.41
474           10-14-2003  TSO III
475           11-10-2003  70.10;
                          70.99
477           12-9-2003   50.10
479           2-24-2004   50.09
483           5-27-2004   54.16
485           9-28-2004   TSO I
490           12-27-2005  34.01
495           6-13-2006   TSO I
496           7-13-2006   52.08
497           7-13-2006   51.03
498           7-13-2006   54.15
                          113.24-
499           8-1-2006    113.31;
                          113.99
500           10-10-2006  52.08
501           10-10-2006  51.03
502           10-10-2006  50.10
503           12-12-2006  54.15
504           12-26-2006  34.01
505           --          154.01
506           5-8-2007    152.46
507           5-8-2007    152.42
509           6-12-2007   Adopting Ordinance
510           7-10-2007   52.05;
                          52.99
511           8-14-2007   52.02;
                          52.03
512A          12-19-2007  54.15
513           1-2-2008    34.01
514           5-13-2008   52.08
                          10.90;
                          50.98;
                          53.21;
                          53.36;
                          70.03;
                          70.08;
                          90.15;
515           5-13-2008   92.025;
                          92.056;
                          92.057;
                          92.061;
                          92.084;
                          92.096;
                          94.03;
                          113.23;
                          151.01
516           7-8-2008    TSO IV
517           10-14-2008  51.03
518           10-14-2008  50.10
519           10-14-2008  52.08
                          152.02;
520           10-14-2008  152.17;
                          152.20
                          70.02–
521           12-9-2008   70.05;
                          70.10
522           12-9-2008   54.15
524           4-14-2009   50.06
526           5-12-2009   70.11
527           7-14-2009   34.01
528           7-14-2009   90.01
                          152.02;
529           10-13-2009  152.17;
                          152.20
530           12-8-2009   113.03
531           12-8-2009   51.03
532           12-8-2009   52.08
533           12-8-2009   54.15
534           1-4-2010    34.01
535           3-9-2010    31.02
536           3-9-2010    34.01
537           7-13-2010   30.02
538           8-11-2010   TSO I
539           10-12-2010  50.06
540           12-14-2010  51.03
541           12-14-2010  52.08
542           1-5-2011    34.01
543           4-26-2011   152.22
544           5-26-2011   54.15
545           6-28-2011   TSO II
                          52.02;
546           8-23-2011   52.03;
                          152.46;
                          152.47
547           8-23-2011   TSO I
547           9-27-2011   152.75 -
                          152.83
548           12-13-2011  51.03
549           12-13-2011  52.08
                          50.04;
550           11-22-2011  50.06;
                          51.03
551           2-14-2012   34.01
552           - -2012     TSO I
553           6-12-2012   90.18;
                          94.02
                          152.15;
554           6-26-2012   152.24–
                          152.29
555           7-10-2012   TSO IV
556           10-9-2012   TSO I
557           11-12-2012  52.05
558           12-11-2012  52.08
559           12-11-2012  51.03
560           1-8-2013    34.01
561           2-26-2013   152.02,
                          152.41
562           4-9-2013    54.15
563           5-28-2013   31.04
564           11-26-2013  TSO IV
565           12-10-2013  52.08
566           12-10-2013  51.03
567           12-10-2013  34.01
568           3-25-2014   TSO I
570           10-14-2014  TSO I
571           10-28-2014  30.10
572           12-9-2014   52.08
573           12-9-2014   50.10
574           12-9-2014   51.03
575           12-23-2014  34.01
576           2-10-2015   70.02,
                          70.11
                          92.002;
                          92.050–
577           2-10-2015   92.052;
                          92.080–
                          92.084
578           6-23-2015   TSO IV
579           6-23-2015   152.41
580           10-27-2015  TSO I
581           12-22-2015  50.10
582           12-22-2015  152.41
583           1-12-2016   34.01
                          92.070–
584           1-26-2016   92.075;
                          92.999
585           1-26-2016   TSO I
586           1-26-2016   130.20;
                          130.99
587           8-23-2016   152.50
588           9-27-2016   TSO IV
590           12-13-2016  52.08
591           12-13-2016  34.01
                          113.01–
                          113.05;
                          113.07–
                          113.09;
592           5-23-2017   113.20–
                          113.24;
                          113.29–
                          113.32;
                          113.99
593           9-12-2017   70.03
594           12-12-2017  50.10
595           12-12-2017  51.03
596           12-12-2017  52.08
597           2-27-2018   TSO IV
598           1-23-2018   34.01
599           4-24-2018   152.24
600           4-24-2018   TSO I
602           6-26-2018   TSO I
603           9-11-2018   TSO II
606           12-11-2018  52.08
607           1-8-2019    34.01
608           2-12-2019   TSO IV
609           - -2019     TSO I
610           12-10-2019  52.08
611           12-10-2019  51.03
613           1-2-2020    92.073
614           1-2-2020    51.04
615           1-2-2020    34.01
617           2-24-2020   TSO I
618           3-10-2020   152.24
619           4-14-2020   95.01
620           4-14-2020   130.30
621           5-26-2020   113.23
622           5-26-2020   TSO I
623           7-28-2020   TSO I
624           8-25-2020   152.24
                          92.001–
                          92.013;
625           9-8-2020    92.017–
                          92.025;
                          92.050–
                          92.052
626           8-25-2020   34.01
627           12-8-2020   52.08
628           12-8-2020   51.03
629           12-22-2020  34.01
630           2-9-2021    152.41
631           4-13-2021   TSO IV
632           5-26-2021   34.01,
                          92.014
633           8-24-2021   TSO I
634           11-23-2021  52.08
635           11-23-2021  51.03
636           1-11-2022   54.15
638           6-28-2022   130.40,
                          130.99
639           6-28-2022   50.03–
                          50.06
640           8-23-2022   TSO IV
641           11-22-2022  51.03
642           12-22-2022  54.15
643           11-22-2022  50.10
644           11-22-2022  52.08
2022-645      12-27-2022  152.02,
                          152.22
2022-646      12-27-2022  152.41
2022-647      12-27-2022  152.41
2022-648      12-27-2022  152.41
2022-649      12-27-2022  152.19.5
650           1-24-2023   30.07
651           3-14-2023   33.02
652           3-14-2023   TSO IV
653           4-11-2023   34.01
654           7-25-2023   TSO IV
656           12-12-2023  51.03
657           12-12-2023  52.08
658           12-12-2023  34.01
659           2-13-2024   34.01
660           9-10-2024   TSO IV
                          153.11–
                          153.15;
                          153.21-
662           10-10-2024  153.29;
                          153.31–
                          153.46;
                          153.99
                          115.001–
                          115.009;
                          115.020-
                          115.043;
663           11-12-2024  115.060–
                          115.073;
                          115.090–
                          115.096;
                          115.999
                          152.02;
664           11-12-2024  152.16;
                          152.22–
                          152.26
665           11-12-2024  34.01
666           11-26-2024  51.03
667           11-26-2024  52.08
668           11-26-2024  TSO IV
                         
 
