ST. MICHAEL, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-17 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through December 17, 2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinances
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.18   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.19   Copies of code
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of St. Michael shall be
designated as the Code of St. Michael, Minnesota, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this municipality shall be by the following rules, unless such construction
is plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, such requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of St. Michael,
Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
      COUNTY. Wright County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section.
   Example:   (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord.
30, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 40, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   A statutory cite included in the history indicates that the text
of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
   Example:   (M.S. § 609.034) (Ord. 15, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25, passed 1-
1-85)
      (2)   A statutory cite set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section indicates that the reader should refer to that statute for
further information.
   Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Public records, see M.S. § 138.163 et seq.
§ 10.18 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.19 COPIES OF CODE.
   Copies of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Administrator
for public inspection and sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $1,000, imprisonment for a term
not exceeding 90 days, or both. In either case, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provisions of this
code which are stated to be a petty misdemeanor, shall upon conviction be
subject to a fine not exceeding $300.
   (C)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation unless a penalty is specifically provided
for such failure.
Statutory reference:
   Misdemeanor and petty misdemeanor penalties, see M.S. § 609.02(3) and (4)(a)
   Ordinance violations and penalties, see M.S. §§ 412.231 and 609.034
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICERS
      
32.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
      
34.   FINANCE
      
35.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
36.   ELECTIONS
      
37.   PERSONNEL
      
38.   ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
      
39.   FEES FOR VARIOUS SERVICES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Salaries
Cross-reference:
   Terms of office of Council Members and Mayor, see §
36.02
§ 30.01 SALARIES.
   The salary of each Council Member and of the Mayor shall be as set from time
to time by ordinance.
(Ord. 8, passed 11-3-53; Am. Ord. 58, passed 9-12-84; Am. Ord. 62, passed 12-8-
87; Am. Ord. 67, passed 10-24-89; Am. Ord. 0602, passed 3-28-06)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICERS
Section
   
31.01   Administrator
§ 31.01 ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   There is hereby established the position of City Administrator. The
City Administrator is hereby appointed to be the Treasurer for the city and
shall exercise all of the duties and responsibilities of a city treasurer as
specified in M.S. Chapter 412 and elsewhere in the laws of the state and this
code, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall be the management officer of the city and
shall be subject to the control and direction of the Mayor and the City
Council, and pursuant to this position he or she shall perform the duties set
forth in this section and all others as may be assigned to him or her by the
City Council which are not inconsistent with Minnesota Statutes.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall be appointed by a majority vote of the
City Council and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council, except that,
if requested, the City Council shall grant the City Administrator a public
hearing within 30 days following notice of his or her removal. During the
interim following such removal and prior to such hearing, the City Council may
suspend the City Administrator by a majority vote, but shall continue his or
her salary.
   (D)   The City Administrator shall be selected solely on the basis of his or
her executive, administrative, and governmental qualifications with special
reference to his or her actual experience in or his or her knowledge of
accepted practices in respect to the duties of his or her office as described
hereinafter.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall be responsible to the Mayor and the City
Council for the proper administration of those affairs of the city assigned to
his or her office, and under the control and direction of the Mayor and the
City Council, he or she shall have the power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Supervise the administration of all departments and offices placed
within his or her jurisdiction by this section or by subsequent action of the
Mayor or City Council, including, but not limited to, the following: streets,
water, sewer, parks, recreation, fire, civil defense, building and plumbing
inspection, and city engineering. Such supervision shall include the making of
administerial decisions affecting such departments and offices, and the
employment and/or dismissal of personnel within his or her jurisdiction,
subject to the review of the Mayor and unless otherwise provided by ordinance,
code provision, statute, or city policy.
      (2)   Develop and issue all administrative rules, regulations, and
procedures necessary to insure the proper functioning of all departments and
offices within his or her jurisdiction. The rules, regulations, and procedures
shall be consistent with Minnesota Statutes, city ordinances and code
provisions, and City Council policies. The rules, regulations, and procedures
shall be effective upon issuance and shall continue to be in effect until
rescinded by the City Administrator or the express action of the Mayor or City
Council.
      (3)   Coordinate the activities of and serve as an advisor to all elected
and appointed officials of the city with particular reference to consultants,
the Planning Commission, and the Fire Department.
      (4)   Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the City Council
together with a message describing the important features of the budget; keep
the City Council advised of the financial condition and future needs of the
city and make recommendations as he or she may deem desirable; and purchase or
supervise the purchase of all materials and equipment for which funds are
provided in the budget and as directed by the City Council pursuant to the
Purchasing Policy in effect at the time of such purchase.
      (5)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and other official bodies
as directed, and take part in the discussion of all matters coming before the
City Council. The City Administrator shall also represent the city at all
official or semi-official functions as may be directed by the Council.
      (6)   In cooperation with the Council, see that all laws, ordinances, and
code provisions are duly enforced and investigate all complaints in relation to
matters concerning the administration of departments and offices within his or
her jurisdiction, and whenever necessary shall make recommendations to the City
Council for improvement of services.
      (7)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Mayor and City
Council and consistent with Minnesota Statutes and city ordinances and code
provisions.
   (F)   The City Administrator shall furnish a surety bond to be approved by
the City Council, the bond to be conditioned upon faithful performance of his
or her duties. The bond premium shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 26, passed 12-11-73; Am. Ord. 69, passed 1-23-90; Am. Ord. 0603, passed
5-23-06; Am. Ord. 1505, passed 8-25-15)
CHAPTER 32: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Organization and Administration
   
32.01   Establishment of Fire Department
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Officers
   
32.04   Fire Chief
   
32.05   Fire Marshall
   
32.06   Rules and regulations
   
32.07   Suspension and discharge
   
32.08   Records and reports
Operations and Authority
   
32.20   Training and drills
   
32.21   Razing of buildings
   
32.22   Police powers of Fire Department
   
32.23   Fire service agreements
Fire Lanes
   
32.35   Fire lanes established
   
32.36   Signs
   
32.37   Parking and obstructions
   
32.38   Violations
Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
32.50   Fire hazards; inspection and abatement
   
32.51   Driving over fire hose
   
32.52   Parking near fire station or hydrant
   
32.53   False alarms
   
32.54   Equipment use
Fire Protection Systems
   
32.60   Fire protection and emergency response fees
   
32.61   Definitions
   
32.62   Codes and standard
   
32.63   Permits required
   
32.64   Inspection
   
32.65   Inspections and corrections
 
   
32.99   Penalty
ORGANIZATION AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established the St. Michael Fire Department which shall be
equipped with such apparatus and accessories as may be required from time to
time to maintain efficiency.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Department shall consist of paid on-call firefighters and/or such
paid firefighters as are employed by the city, as well as reserves. The number
of such members shall be set by resolution of the City Council from time to
time. All members of the Fire Department shall be employees of the city and
appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The membership of the Department shall consist of able-bodied
individuals over the age of 18 who can read and write the English language and
can respond to the Fire Station within ten minutes time during their available
hours. All members must pass a physical examination performed by a physician at
a city-designated clinic, a drug test, background check, driving record check,
satisfactorily complete the physical ability test and psychological testing,
and comply with such further requirements as are imposed by the Fire Department
Rules and Regulations, adopted from time to time by the Fire Department and/or
the City Council pursuant to §
32.06.
   (C)   In addition to the membership as defined above, there shall be number
of explorers selected in accordance with the rules and regulations of the St.
Michael Fire Department.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 66, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 0704, passed
10-23-07)
§ 32.03 OFFICERS.
   Every three years, through a process outlined in the Rules and Regulations
of the St. Michael Fire Department, the Chief shall select from its members who
meet the qualifications and requirements of the City Council the following
officers: an Assistant Chief, a District Chief, four Captains, and three
Lieutenants. All officers so selected shall hold office for three years and
until their successors have been duly selected, except that any one or all of
them may be suspended by the Fire Chief and/or removed by the City Council for
cause. See the Fire Department Rules and Regulations on Paid-on-Call Officer
Appointments for full details on selection of Officers.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 66, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 0704, passed
10-23-07)
§ 32.04 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Chief shall be appointed by and accountable to the City Council for the
proper functioning of the Fire Department and for the care and condition of all
of the firefighting apparatus, equipment, and quarters used by the Department.
He or she shall be subject to the direction of the City Council. Except as
otherwise provided, he or she shall also be responsible for the enforcement of
the provisions of this chapter and of the rules and regulations of the
Department and shall report to the City Council any violations or infractions
thereof which come to his or her attention. He or she shall work cooperatively
with the City Administrator to prepare the annual budget in a timely manner.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.05 FIRE MARSHALL.
   The office of Fire Marshall shall be held by a qualified individual as
appointed by the City Council from time to time. The Fire Marshall shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinances and code provisions aimed at
fire prevention. The Fire Marshall shall have full authority to inspect, or
cause to be inspected, all premises, and cause the abatement or removal of all
fire hazards. Pursuant to such duty to cause to be inspected all premises, the
Fire Marshall shall have the authority to obtain search warrants if the Fire
Marshall determines search warrants are necessary to accomplish the inspection;
provided, however, that the applicable constitutional requirements relating to
the procurement of such search warrants in effect at the time of the
inspections are met.
(Ord. 66, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.06 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The members of the Fire Department, by a majority vote of the recorded
membership, shall propose a code of rules and regulations to control, manage,
and govern the Fire Department and to regulate its proceedings and business.
The rules and regulations shall not conflict with this chapter or future
ordinances or code provisions passed by the City Council.
   (B)   The proposed rules and regulations, or any changes therein, shall
become effective only after approval by the City Council. Additional rules and
regulations may be adopted by the City Council.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.07 SUSPENSION AND DISCHARGE.
   Any member of the Fire Department may be temporarily suspended by the Chief
and/or City Council without pay at any time such action is deemed necessary by
the Chief or the City Council for the good of the Department. The City Council
shall have the power to discharge members of the Fire Department for cause. All
members of the Department when on duty or in the Fire Hall shall be accountable
to the Chief for their conduct.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.08 RECORDS AND REPORTS.
   The Chief shall keep a complete record of all fires and submit them to the
State Fire Marshal’s Office. The Chief shall submit to the City Council a
quarterly report of all the fire activities that the Department responded to.
The report shall include the alarm date, the street address, the alarm times,
the incident type, the actions taken, the property information, the responding
personnel and units, the officer in charge, ignition details, structure fire
information and such other information as he or she may deem advisable or as
may be required from time to time by the City Council or the State Insurance
Department.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
OPERATIONS AND AUTHORITY
§ 32.20 TRAINING AND DRILLS.
   The Chief shall call the entire Department together at least once every
month for the purpose of meeting, training, maintenance of equipment and all
other pertinent matters as deemed necessary by the Chief and/or officers.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.21 RAZING OF BUILDINGS.
   The Chief, or in his or her absence the officer in charge, shall have the
power to raze such buildings in the vicinity of a fire as the Chief or, in the
Chief’s absence the officer in charge may direct to prevent the communication
of the fire to other buildings.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.22 POLICE POWERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Chief, the Assistant Chief, the Fire Marshall, if other than the Chief
or the Assistant Chief, or in their absence the officer in charge, shall have
all necessary special police powers for the purpose of enforcing the provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.23 FIRE SERVICE AGREEMENTS.
   The Council may make agreements with other communities for supplying fire
service to them and shall determine the rates and conditions under which such
service shall be rendered.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
FIRE LANES
§ 32.35 FIRE LANES ESTABLISHED.
   The Fire Chief and/or Fire Marshall is hereby authorized to order the
establishment of fire lanes on public or private property as may be necessary
in order that the travel of fire equipment may not be interfered with, and that
access to fire hydrants or buildings may not be obstructed.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-11-78; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
§ 32.36 SIGNS.
   When a fire lane has been ordered to be established pursuant to §
32.35 it shall be marked by a sign consistent with international fire code
standards. When the fire lane is on public property or a public right-of-way,
the sign or signs shall be erected by the city, and when on private property,
the sign or signs shall be erected at the private property owner's expense.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-11-78; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.37 PARKING AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   After a sign has been erected in accordance with §
32.36, no person shall park a vehicle or otherwise occupy or obstruct the
designated fire lane.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-11-78; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.38 VIOLATIONS.
   Any vehicle located in a fire lane is in violation of this subchapter. The
vehicle shall be towed at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-11-78; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 32.50 FIRE HAZARDS; INSPECTION AND ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department, or the Fire Marshall if an
individual other than the Chief, is hereby required to cause inspection to be
made of all buildings within the city from time to time, with the exception of
those single and double dwellings used exclusively for residential purposes.
Written notice shall be served upon the owner or occupant to abate, within a
specified time, any and all fire hazards that may be found therein.
   (B)   Any person so served with an order to abate any fire hazard or hazards
shall comply with said order and promptly notify the Chief. Written records
shall be kept of all inspections.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.51 DRIVING OVER FIRE HOSE.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose except upon specific
orders from the Chief or a firefighter and then only with due caution.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.52 PARKING NEAR FIRE STATION OR HYDRANT.
   No person shall park any vehicle of any description or place any material or
obstruction within 20 feet of the driveway to any fire station, or within 15
feet of any fire hydrant or fire cistern, nor park any vehicle within 300 feet
of a fire.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.53 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall maliciously set off a fire alarm or falsely report a fire.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 5-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
§ 32.54 EQUIPMENT USE.
   No person or persons shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any
private purpose, nor shall any person willfully and without proper authority
remove, destroy, take away, keep, or conceal any tool, appliance, or any other
article used by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 19, passed 12-16-68; Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
Penalty, see § 32.99
FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS
§ 32.60 FIRE PROTECTION AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE FEES.
   Fees established. The City Council does hereby establish fees for the fire
protection and/or emergency response services which are not otherwise specified
by contract. The fees shall be established at a fixed rate for certain
specified incidents and for actual costs incurred by the city in responding to
the incident.
   (A)   Major emergency incident. For purposes of this section, major
emergency incident is defined as:
      (1)   A motor vehicle accident or fire, chemical/hazardous materials
spill, commercial/multi-family structure fire, or other accident or incident;
      (2)   Occurring within the City of St. Michael fire service area; and
      (3)   To which the city responds with assistance from four or more other
fire and emergency response agencies.
   (B)   Imposition of fees. The city shall charge the applicable fire
protection and emergency response fees set forth in §
39.02 when the city responds to a major emergency incident. The fees shall be
charged to whichever party is determined by the City Council to be responsible
for the major emergency incident, such as the owner of the chemical/hazardous
materials, the registered owner of the vehicle, or the owner of the facility
where the major emergency incident occurred. All personnel and equipment
provided by other fire departments pursuant to a mutual aid request of the
City's Fire Department shall be billed according to the Wright County Fire
Chiefs Association Joint Cooperative Agreement for Use of Fire Personnel and
Equipment in effect at the time of the major emergency incident.
(Ord. 1008, passed 12-28-10; Am. Ord. 1704, passed 10-24-17)
§ 32.61 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS. Approved devices, equipment and systems or
combinations of systems used to detect a fire, activate a fire alarm,
extinguish or control a fire, control or manage smoke and products of a fire,
or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 2102, passed 8-24-21)
§ 32.62 CODES AND STANDARD.
   All fire protection systems shall be installed in full compliance with
applicable provisions of this code including the building code, fire code and
other national standards.
(Ord. 2102, passed 8-24-21)
§ 32.63 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   Permits are required for the construction or installation of fire protection
systems as set forth in sections 105.7.1, 105.7.4, 105.7.5 and 105.7.12 of the
state fire code. Each person, intending to construct or install a fire
protection system shall make application to the City Fire Marshal for a permit
for that purpose and shall furnish a full description of the work together with
such plans and specifications as may be required by the Fire Marshal. The
application shall be made on forms provided by the Fire Marshal.
(Ord. 2102, passed 8-24-21)
§ 32.64 INSPECTION.
   All fire protection systems installed under permit shall be inspected by the
City Fire Marshal or City Building Official. Inspections shall be made during
installation of the fire protection system and before closure or concealment. A
final inspection and full operating test, with test results satisfactory to the
Fire Marshal and Building Official, shall be made before approval of the system
will be given by the city.
(Ord. 2102, passed 8-24-21)
§ 32.65 INSPECTIONS AND CORRECTIONS.
   (A)   All work done in installing, extending or altering a fire protection
system shall conform to all applicable building and fire codes and shall be
inspected by the Fire Marshal.
   (B)   The Fire Marshal may order work on a fire protection system to be
corrected or altered if it is found to be defective, incomplete or not in
accordance with applicable building and fire codes.
   (C)   Fire protection systems shall be inspected and tested at least
annually by licensed fire protection contractors in accordance with the
standards and procedures set forth in sections 105.7.1, 105.7.4, 105.7.5 and
105.7.12 of the state fire code, as may be amended. Contractors who perform
inspections, testing and/or maintenance services on fire and life safety
systems within the city are required to submit all compliant and noncompliant
reports to the St. Michael Fire Department via a method approved by the Fire
Marshal.
(Ord. 2102, passed 8-24-21)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction,
be penalized as provided in §
10.99. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
(Am. Ord. 0704, passed 10-23-07)
CHAPTER 33: BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Establishment of Planning Commission
   
33.02   Composition; terms of office; compensation
   
33.03   Organization and operations
   
33.04   Powers and duties
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   A Planning Commission for the city is hereby established.
(Ord. 114, passed 1-13-98)
§ 33.02 COMPOSITION; TERMS OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members. The members
shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by the City Council
by a two-thirds vote of all the members of the City Council.
   (B)   Of the members of the Planning Commission when first appointed, two
shall be appointed for a term of two years; three shall be appointed for a term
of three years; and two shall be appointed for a term of four years. Their
successors shall each be appointed for terms of four years. Both original and
successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Any vacancy which shall occur during the term of a
commissioner may be filled by the City Council for the unexpired portion of the
term. Every appointed member shall take an oath that the member will faithfully
discharge the duties of the position. All members shall be compensated in an
amount to be determined by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 114, passed 1-13-98; Am. Ord. 120, passed 2-9-99)
§ 33.03 ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its
appointed members to serve a term of one year. The Planning Commission may
create and fill such other offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
month. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions and findings, which records shall be a
public record. On or before January 1 of each year, the Planning Commission
shall submit to the City Council a report of its work during the preceding year
and shall make such other reports to the City Council from time to time as the
City Council may direct. Expenditures of the
Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for that purpose by the City
Council.
(Ord. 114, passed 1-13-98)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission shall be the planning agency for the city. The
Planning Commission shall have such powers and duties as set forth in M.S. §§
462.351 through 462.364.
(Ord. 114, passed 1-13-98)
CHAPTER 34: FINANCE
Section
   
34.01   Audit of city’s financial affairs
§ 34.01 AUDIT OF CITY’S FINANCIAL AFFAIRS.
   Beginning with the year in which this section becomes effective, and each
year thereafter, there shall be an audit of the city’s financial affairs by the
State Auditor or a public accountant in accordance with minimum auditing
procedures prescribed by the State Auditor.
(Ord. 69, passed 1-23-90)
CHAPTER 35: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Interpretation and effect
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
35.05   Powers and duties of Director
   
35.06   Local emergencies
   
35.07   Emergency regulations
   
35.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
   
35.99   Penalty
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage or
hostile action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and
in order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
such disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect
the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of
the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
      (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible
for city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time
of disasters.
      (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies
and disasters.
      (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and
other political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to
the carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions.
      (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, which require that
each political subdivision of the state shall establish a local organization
for emergency management.
§ 35.02 INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter, the workers’ compensation law, or any
pension law, nor the right of any such person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 35.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical containment and evacuation,
congregate care, emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned
functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of public utility services
and other functions related to civil protection, together with all other
activities necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions.
Emergency management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil
defense” functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 35.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, hereinafter called the Director. The Director
shall be appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite term and may be removed by
him or her at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary and shall be
paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration, and operation of the
emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction and control of
the Mayor.
§ 35.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions,
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a Comprehensive Emergency Plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present such Plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the Plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the Plan as approved. The Plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the Emergency Plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plans, the Director
shall institute training programs and public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend such services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of such emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 35.06 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or interjurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an interjurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
§ 35.07 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for such
an emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the
Governor or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulations respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services; emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations; drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training; and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulation and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator’s Office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at such other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind any such regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any such regulation by resolution at any time.
If not sooner rescinded, every such regulation shall expire at the end of 30
days after its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation
inconsistent with an emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be
suspended during the period of time and to the extent such conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31 and notwithstanding any statutory provision to the contrary, empowered,
through its Council, acting within or without the corporate limits of the city,
to enter into contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat such disaster
by protecting the health and safety of persons and property and providing
emergency assistance to the victims of such disaster. The city may exercise
these powers in the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance
with the time-consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining
to the performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements,
purchase of supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the
appropriation and expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to,
publication of resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of
personnel laws and rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for
bids.
Penalty, see
§ 35.99
§ 35.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 36: ELECTIONS
Section
   
36.01   Election day
   
36.02   Council and Mayor; terms of office
§ 36.01 ELECTION DAY.
   The regular city election shall be held biennially on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November in every even-numbered year, beginning with
the 1975 city election.
(Ord. 15, passed 8-2-60; Am. Ord. 24, passed 7-9-74)
§ 36.02 COUNCIL AND MAYOR; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Two Council Members shall be elected for four-year terms at each biennial
city election commencing in 1975. The Mayor shall be elected for a two-year
term at each such election.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-9-74)
CHAPTER 37: PERSONNEL
Section
   
37.01   Personnel policies adopted by reference
§ 37.01 PERSONNEL POLICIES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The personnel policies of the city, as may be revised from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference and shall be treated as if set forth in full
herein.
CHAPTER 38: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
38.01   Purpose and intent
   
38.02   Definitions
   
38.03   Administrative notices
   
38.04   Citation
   
38.05   Responding to citation; payment
   
38.06   Requesting a hearing
   
38.07   Hearing Officer
   
38.08   Appeal of Hearing Officer decision
   
38.09   Failure to pay
   
38.10   Subsequent violations
§ 38.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Administrative enforcement procedures established pursuant to this chapter
are intended to provide the city with an informal, cost-effective and more
efficient alternative to criminal prosecution of civil litigation for certain
violations of the city code. The city retains the right to enforce provisions
of this code by bringing criminal charges or commencing civil litigation in any
case where the city determines it is appropriate or necessary, but finds that
an administrative process is beneficial to the residents of the city and finds
that such a process is a legitimate and necessary alternative method of
enforcement of code violations.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER.  Any officer of the Wright County Sheriff’s
Department or any employee of the city who has received official authority by
the City Council to enforce the city code.
   CODE OFFENSE.  A violation of any section, subdivision, paragraph or
provision of the city code and is subject to a civil penalty determined
according to a schedule adopted by resolution of the City Council from time to
time and payable directly to the City Treasurer. Each day the violation exists
constitutes a separate CODE OFFENSE.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.03 ADMINISTRATIVE NOTICE.
   A Code Compliance Officer may issue, either in person or by United States
first class mail, an administrative notice to any person suspect or known to
have committed a code offense and/or to the owner of property upon which a code
offense is being committed. The administrative notice shall identify the code
offense, the location in which the code offense occurred or is occurring, and
the recommended corrective action for the code offense. The administrative
notice may also state that the alleged violator has, at the discretion of the
Code Compliance Officer, up to 15 days to correct or abate the code offense. If
the alleged violator and/or owner upon which a code offense is being committed
is unable to correct or abate the code offense within the prescribed time, he
or she may request an extension from the Code Compliance Officer. Any extension
granted by the Code Compliance Officer shall specifically state the date of
expiration. If the code offense is not corrected or abated, as outlined in the
administrative notice, within the prescribed time, the Code Compliance Officer
may issue a citation, as provided below.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.04 CITATION.
   A Code Compliance Officer is authorized to issue a citation upon the belief
that a code offense has occurred, whether or not an administrative notice has
first been issued in regard to the code offense. The citation shall be given to
the person responsible for the violation and/or to the owner of the property
upon which the violation has occurred, either by personal service or by United
States first class mail. The citation shall state the nature of the code
offense, the time and date the code offense occurred, the civil penalty
applicable to that code offense as set forth in a schedule of civil penalties
which shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council from time to time, and
the manner for paying the civil penalty or requesting a hearing before a
Hearing Officer to contest the citation.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.05 RESPONDING TO CITATION; PAYMENT.
   Once a citation is issued, the alleged violator and/or the owner of the
property upon which the violation has occurred shall, within 15 days of the
time of issuance of the citation, either pay the civil penalty set forth in the
citation or request a hearing in writing according to the procedure set forth
in this section. The civil penalty may be paid either in person at City Hall,
or by United States first class mail, postage prepaid and postmarked within the
prescribed 15 days. Payment of the civil penalty shall be deemed to be an
admission of the code offense.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.06 REQUESTING A HEARING.
   Any person contesting a citation issued pursuant to this chapter may, within
15 days of the time of issuance of the citation, request a hearing before a
Hearing Officer. Any request for a hearing before a Hearing Officer shall be
made in writing on a form provided by the city for such a request and either
delivered personally to the city at City Hall or mailed to the city by United
States first class mail, postage prepaid and postmarked within the prescribed
15 days. The hearing shall be held at City Hall within 30 days of the date the
city received a timely written notice that a hearing has been requested.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.07 HEARING OFFICER.
   The City Council shall by resolution from time to time appoint a list of
persons authorized to act as a Hearing Officer. The Hearing Officer is
authorized to conduct an informal hearing to determine if a code offense has
occurred. The Hearing Officer may be compensated by the city for such hearings
and related findings. The Hearing Officer shall have the authority to uphold or
dismiss the citation or reduce or waive the civil penalty imposed upon such
terms and conditions as the Hearing Officer shall determine. The Hearing
Officer’s decision shall be made in writing on a form provided by the city for
such purpose. The Hearing Officer’s decision is final, except as provided in
this chapter for appealing the Hearing Officer’s decision in limited cases to
the City Council.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.08 APPEAL OF HEARING OFFICER DECISION.
   (A)   The Hearing Officer’s decision shall be applicable to the City Council
only for the following matters:
      (1)   An alleged failure to obtain a required permit (such as, without
limitation, a conditional use permit), license (such as, without limitation, a
liquor license), or other approval from the City Council as required by the
city code;
      (2)   An alleged violation of a permit (such as, without limitation, a
conditional use permit), license (such as, without limitation, a liquor
license), other approval, or the conditions attached to the permit, license, or
approval, that was issued by the City Council; or
      (3)   An alleged violation of regulations governing a person or entity
who has received a license issued by the City Council.
   (B)   An appeal to the City Council of the Hearing Officer’s decision must
be made in writing on a form provided by the city for such an appeal and must
be served on the City Clerk by United States first class mail, postage prepaid,
within ten days after the date of the Hearing Officer’s decision.
   (C)   A timely appeal will be heard by the City Council after a notice of
hearing is served by the city upon the appellant in person or by certified mail
at least ten days in advance of the date of the hearing. The parties to the
hearing will have an opportunity to present oral or written arguments regarding
the Hearing Officer’s decision.
   (D)   The City Council shall consider the record, the Hearing Officer’s
decision, and any additional arguments before making a determination. The City
Council is not bound by the Hearing Officer’s decision, but may adopt all or
part of the Hearing Officer’s decision. The City Council’s decision may be
vowed upon and given at the hearing or may be given in writing within 15 days
of the hearing.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.09 FAILURE TO PAY.
   (A)   In the event a person charged with a code offense fails to pay the
civil penalty and correct or abate the code offense for which a citation was
issued within the prescribed time, a late charge of 15% shall be imposed
thereon for each seven days the civil penalty remains unpaid and the code
offense remains uncorrected or unabated beyond the due date.
   (B)   An unpaid civil penalty and accrued late charges will constitute a
personal obligation of the person to whom the citation was issued and the city
shall have the right to collect such unpaid civil penalty and accrued late
charges, together with the city’s costs and reasonable attorneys, in a criminal
or civil proceeding.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 429.101 and M.S. § 514.67, as they may be amended
from time to time, and other applicable law, a lien in the amount of the civil
penalty and accrued late charges may be assessed quarterly or annually against
the property where the code offense occurred and collected in the same manner
as taxes. Any such assessment shall not preclude the city from issuing
additional citations for a continuing code offense.
   (D)   The city may suspend or revoke a license or permit or other approval
associated with the code offense if the civil penalty and accrued late charges
are not timely paid.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
§ 38.10 SUBSEQUENT VIOLATIONS.
   If a second citation for a code offense is issued by the city to the alleged
violator and/or the owner of the property upon which the violation has occurred
within 24 months of the issuance of a previous citation for the same code
offense, the civil penalty shall increase by 25% over the scheduled civil
penalty amount. If a third citation for a code offense is issued by the city to
the alleged violator and/or the owner of the property upon which the violation
has occurred within 24 months of the issuance of a previous citation for the
same code offense, the civil penalty shall increase by 50% over the scheduled
civil penalty amount. If a fourth citation for a code offense is issued by the
city to the alleged violator and/or the owner of the property upon which the
violation has occurred within 24 months of the issuance of a previous citation
for the same code offense, the civil penalty shall increase by 100% over the
scheduled civil penalty amount.
(Ord. 0317, passed 12-23-03)
CHAPTER 39: FEES FOR VARIOUS SERVICES
Section
   
39.01   Authorization
   
39.02   Fee schedule
§ 39.01 AUTHORIZATION.
   The city is hereby authorized to impose fees, rates, or charges and the same
shall be enumerated in this chapter or elsewhere in this code. In the event of
any conflict between this chapter and any other provision of the code, this
chapter shall control.
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07)
§ 39.02 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The following fees shall become effective January 1, 2021, and shall be
subject to amendment by ordinance as deemed necessary from time to time by the
City Council.
 YEAR 2025
 BASE FEE  NOTES
                                                                 YEAR 2025
                                                                 BASE FEE  NOTES
SAC (San. Sewer Access Charge) new const.                                   
Based on Resid. Equivalency Units (minimum 1 REU/building)                  
Single family, twin home, town home, comm/ind/pub-inst           $6,284     
Apartments or senior housing                                     $5,026     
St. Michael hookups of buildings existing prior to 1997          $1,918     
Hanover/Rockford Twp hookups of buildings existing prior to 1998 $2,862     
WAC - Water Access Charge                                        $3,441     
*City’s Share - single family, twin home, town home/comm/ind/P-$900       
*City’s Share - apartments and senior housing                  $719       
*JWB’s Share                                                   $2,541     
Sanitary Sewer Trunk Connection Fee per REU                                 
Single Family                                                    $9,986     
Twin Home                                                        $2,986     
Town Home (3 or more attached)                                   $2,912     
Apartment                                                        $2,690     
Senior Housing                                                   $2,690     
                                                                           **Minimum 1 REU per Developable Acre to be paid at
Commercial/Industrial/Public-Institutional**                     $2,986    time of platting with remaining REUs calculated
                                                                           and paid at the time of building permit
Water Trunk Connection Fee per REU                                          
Single Family                                                    $1,188     
Twin Home                                                        $1,188     
Town Home (3 or more attached)                                   $1,188     
Apartment                                                        $952       
Senior Housing                                                   $952       
Water Trunk Connection Fee per REU                                          
                                                                           **Minimum 1 REU per Developable Acre to be paid at
Commercial/Industrial/Public-Institutional**                     $1,188    time of platting with remaining REUs calculated
                                                                           and paid at the time of building permit
Stormwater Trunk Connection Fee                                             
Single Family per REU                                            $2,989     
Twin Home per REU                                                $2,840     
Town Home (3 or more attached) per REU                           $1,611     
Apartment per REU                                                $620       
Senior Housing per REU                                           $371       
Commercial/Industrial/Public-Institutional per usable square     $0.13      
footage
Existing Lots/Homes                                                         
241 Sanitary Sewer Trunk Connection Fee per REU                  $2,722.60  
241 Sanitary Sewer Trunk Assessment per acre                     $933.16    
241 Water Trunk Connection Fee per REU                           $1,393.33  
NW Sanitary Sewer Trunk Connection Fee per REU                   $2,175.26  
NW Sanitary Sewer Trunk Assessment per acre                      $2,175.26  
SW Sanitary Sewer Trunk Connection Fee per REU                   $1,413.86  
Existing Lots/Homes                                                         
SW Sanitary Sewer Trunk Assessment per acre                      $2,579.04  
Lander/Hanover Interceptor San. Trunk Con. Fee per REU                      
   Base/Lander                                                $261.51    
   CSAH 34                                                    $983.80   cumulative
   Lake Area Trunk 1                                          $1,613.82 cumulative
   Lake Area Trunk 2                                          $2,186.79 cumulative
   Lake Area Trunk 3                                          $2,927.69 cumulative
Hanover Interceptor Sanitary Trunk Assessment per acre           $762.69   each
Grinder Pump Inspection Fees                                     $821.65    
Collector Road Lateral Assessment/Payment In- Lieu*              Per Foot/  
                                                                 Each Side
Residential, Single Family - with curb                           $184.78    
Residential, Single Family - without curb                        $166.92    
Residential, Multiple Family -with curb                          $266.41    
Residential, Multiple Family - without curb                      $248.56    
Commercial/Industrial/Public-Institutional                       $266.41    
*does not include sanitary sewer or water costs                             
Park Dedication Fees                                                        
                                                                 15% of
Residential                                                      land or    
                                                                 $3,200
                                                                 per unit
                                                                 15% of
Residential - Senior Apartments                                  land or    
                                                                 $1,600
                                                                 per unit
                                                                 5% of
Commercial Uses                                                  land or    
                                                                 $1,000
                                                                 per acre
                                                                 5% of
Industrial Uses                                                  land or    
                                                                 $1,000
                                                                 per acre
                                                                 5% of
Public/Semi-Public/Institutional Uses                            land or    
                                                                 $1,000
                                                                 per acre
*Net Area: For purposes of determining park dedication, net area shall mean the area contained within: 1) existing or city
approved public right-of-ways; and 2) portions of land that lie below the ordinary high water level of a lake or river; and/
or existing or proposed stormwater ponds
O&M Residential Water Fees
Base Rate-No Minimum                                             $7.04     monthly
~City’s Share                                                  $2.04      
~JWB’s Share                                                   $5.00      
*0-3,500 Gallons                                                 $3.91     per thousand
~City’s Share                                                  $1.60      
~JWB’s Share                                                   $2.31      
*3,501-6,500 Gallons                                             $4.23     per thousand
~City’s Share                                                  $1.62      
~JWB’s Share                                                   $2.61      
*6,501-11,500 Gallons                                            $4.46     per thousand
~City’s Share                                                  $1.62      
~JWB’s Share                                                   $2.84      
*11,501-16,500 Gallons                                           $4.78     per thousand
~City’s Share                                                  $1.64      
~JWB’s Share                                                   $3.15      
*Each 1,000 Gallons thereafter                                   $5.34     per thousand
~City's Share                                                    $1.65      
~JWB's Share                                                     $3.69      
O&M Commercial Water Fees and Irrigation Only Fees                         
3/4 inch meter                                                   $4.90     monthly minimum
1 inch meter                                                     $7.86      
1.5 inch meter                                                   $14.71     
2 inch meter                                                     $58.91     
2.5 inch meter                                                   $90.82     
3 inch meter                                                     $122.75    
4 inch meter                                                     $136.61    
6 inch meter                                                     $172.81    
8 inch meter                                                     $190.12    
Commodity Rate per 1,000 gallons                                           
~City’s Share - Commercial and Irrigation                      $1.60     per thousand
~JWB’s Share - Irrigation Only                                 $3.69      
~JWB’s Share - Commercial                                      $2.62      
O&M Sewer Fees                                                             
0-5,000 Gallons                                                  $28.09    monthly minimum
Each 1,000 Gallons Thereafter                                    $4.91     per thousand
Basic Sewer without Water                                        $28.09    monthly minimum
Albertville Area Collection System - Monthly Chg                 $17        
Lakes Area Collection System – Monthly Chg                     $6.38      
Grinder Pump - Monthly Maintenance Charge                        $25        
Noncompliance ss 51.75 - Per Quarter+A44                         $50        
                                                                         per new contract
Advanced disposal leachate contract                              $0.0361   per gallon
Other Fees                                                                 
Storm Water Utility Charge - Per REF/month                       $2         
Water Meter-Residential                                          $550       
Pressure Reducing Valve                                          $350       
Water Inspection                                                 $100       
Sewer Inspection                                                 $100       
Turn on/Shut-off Fee                                             $35        
Building Permit Fees                                                       
                                                                 Based on  97 UBC Schedule plus 10.1% (1997- 2017+6%
Basic Building Permit Fees (unless noted below)                  permit    Adjustment +2018 CCI 4.1%)
                                                                 valuation
Plan Review Fee                                                           65% of Building Permit Fee (25% if similar plans)
Decks                                                            Based on  (permit valuation)
Detached Garages/Outbuildings/Basement Finish                    permit    (permit valuation)
3-Season and Screen Porches                                      valuation (permit valuation)
Retaining Walls (over 4 ft. high)                                          (permit valuation)
Miscellaneous Minimum Building Fees                              $75        
Fire Suppression Systems - Minimum Per Permit                    $150       
Additional Inspections (after required)                          $65/hour   
Residential Fuel-Gas Piping Fee                                  $75       (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Residential Heating, Ventilation & A/C                           $75       (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Residential Plumbing                                             $75       (for 1st fixture +$8/addn fixture)
Building Permit Fees                                                       
Commercial Fuel-Gas Piping Fee                                   based on  (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Commercial Heating, Ventilation & A/C                            permit    (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Commercial Plumbing                                              valuation (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Fences (over 6 ft. high)                                         $75       (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Fire Place/Wood Stoves                                           $75       (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Re-roof (residential)                                            $200      Flat fee
Re-roof (commercial)                                             $200      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Residing (residential)                                           $200      Flat fee
Residing (commercial)                                            $200      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Solar Panels (residential)                                       $350      Flat fee
Solar Panels (commercial)                                        $350      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Swimming Pools                                                   $225      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Window Installation                                              $100      (for 1st opening +$10 for each additional)
Commercial Window Installation                                   $150      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Moving Structures In                                             $200      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Moving Building Out/Demo                                         $200      (or 1.5% of valuation, whichever is greater)
Gas Fitter Processing Fee                                        $35       (annual fee)
General Contractor Verification                                  $5         
Permit Transfer Fee (Building)                                   $200       
Permit Transfer Fee (Plumbing, HVAC, Gas)                        $50        
Vacant Property Registration Fee                                 $100       
Tenant Occupancy Permit - (Commercial/Industrial)                $150       
                                                                 100% permit fee if requested within 180 days of issuance; no
Permit Refund Policy                                             refund of plan review or state surcharge (if already paid to
                                                                 the state)   
Temporary CO Fee                                                 $100       
                                                                 Double
No permit investigation fee (fine)                               permit     
                                                                 fee
Fire and Emergency Response Related Fees                                   
Chemical/hazardous material spills                               $500      (for first hour, $200 per hour thereafter)
Motor vehicle fires/accidents                                    $500      (for first hour, $200 per hour thereafter)
Engine                                                           $275      (up to 4 personnel)
Ladder/aerial                                                    $275      (up to 4 personnel)
Water tender                                                     $200      (up to 2 personnel)
Heavy rescue/rescue/ambulance                                    $185      (up to 2 personnel)
Command vehicle/utility truck/grass truck                        $85       (up to 2 personnel)
ATV/UTV with water tank                                          $50       (up to 2 personnel)
Extra personnel                                                  $20/hr     
Special response unit                                            $500       
Fire investigation team                                          $300       
City Center Room Usage Fees                                      * See City Rental Policy for details on additional fees that
                                                                 may apply
Room Rates                                                                Mon-Sun
J&B Group Conference Room (resident)                             $20
J&B Group Conference Room (non-resident)                         $30
MidWestOne Conference Room (resident)                            $20
MidWestOne Conference Room (non-resident)                        $30
   Craft Room (resident)                                      $20       per hour - no minimum
   Craft Room (non-resident)                                  $30        
   Gries Lenhardt Allen Library Room (resident)               $30        
   Gries Lenhardt Allen Library Room (non- resident)          $40        
   Crow River Senior Center (resident)                        $30
   Crow River Senior Center (non-resident)                    $40
   Frankfort Station (resident)                               $30
   Frankfort Station (non-resident)                           $40
Chamber Room Weekday Rates (M-TH)                                         Mon-Thur
   Full Chamber Room (resident)                               $40
   Full Chamber Room (non-resident)                           $50       per hour - no minimum
   Half Chamber Room (resident)                               $30        
   Half Chamber Room (non-resident)                           $40
City Center Room Usage Fees                                                
Chamber Room Weekend Rates (F-SU)                                Fri-Sat-   
                                                                 Sun
   Full Chamber Room (resident)                               $75       per hour - no minimum
   Full Chamber Room (non-resident)                           $85        

Cleaning Service - Chamber Room (Non-wedding)                    $110      Per rental
Cleaning Service Fee - Alcohol Wedding Event                     $154       
Cleaning Service Fee - All other rooms                           $55
Cleaning Service Fee - Biohazard (including vomit/fecal)         $110      Per occurrence in addition to first cleaning fee
Warming oven cleaning                                            $125      Per occurrence
Audio/Video Charge per hour                                      $5        Hourly rate
Security Service Fee                                             $110      Hourly rate w/4 hr minimum
Wedding Packages Residents                                                 
Friday                                                           $1,000    Includes 4 hrs security/basic clean/AV
Saturday                                                         $1,300     

Wedding Packages Non-Residents                                             
Friday                                                           $1,300    Includes 4 hrs security/basic clean/AV
Saturday                                                         $1,600     

Recreation Center Rental                                                   
Pavilion/Concession Sales                                        $80.53    plus tax
Tennis Court Rental                                              $13.42    plus tax/per court/per hour (M-F 8am- 3:30pm)
Field Rental                                                               
Open park space/misc.                                            $26.84    plus tax
Private Party Field Rental                                       $53.69    plus tax/per day/per field
Adult Sports Leagues                                                       
Summer/Spring (Apr-Aug)                                          $187.91   plus tax/per team
Fall/Winter (Sept-Feb)                                           $107.38   plus tax/per team
Note: Adult Sports include Baseball, Softball, Soccer, Lacrosse,           
Kickball, Hockey, Broomball, etc.
Tournaments                                                      $107.38   plus tax/per day/per field
Youth Sports                                                               
Baseball/Softball/Soccer/etc.                                    No charge  
Youth Soccer Tournaments - Fri-Sun                               $107.38   plus tax/per park/per weekend
Youth Baseball/Softball/etc.-Fri-Sun                             $26.84    plus tax/per field/per day
Tournament Cleaning Fee - Youth or Adult                         $107.38   plus tax/per weekend event
Town Center Park Rates                                                     
St. Michael Lions Pavilion - TCP resident                        $70       hourly rate includes tax
St. Michael Lions Pavilion - TCP non-resident                    $81       hourly rate includes tax
TCP Shelter A (playground side) resident                         $27       hourly rate includes tax
TCP Shelter A (playground side) non-resident                     $38       hourly rate includes tax
TCP Shelter B (splash pad side) resident                         $27       hourly rate includes tax
TCP Shelter B (splash pad side) non-resident                     $38       hourly rate includes tax
Open park space/misc.                                            $27       hourly rate includes tax
Electrical fee (to connect to city building electrical)          $5        per day
Penalty fee (clean or garbage issues)                            $100      per occurrence
Time overage                                                     $250      per occurrence (loss of damage deposit)
Planning Application Fees                                                  
Temporary Sign Annual Permit                                     $25        
Administrative Approval for Zoning Requests                      $100       
Rezoning                                                         $500      plus escrow
Planning Application Fees                                                  
Preliminary Plat - 3 lots or less                                $500      (+ $25 per lot/plus escrow)
Preliminary Plat - 4 lots or more                                $1,000    (+ $25 per lot/plus escrow)
Final Plat                                                       $500      (+ $15 per lot/plus escrow)
One-in-forty Lot Split                                           $500      plus escrow
Minor or Corrective Subdivision (Max 3 lots)                     $500      plus escrow
Minimum Lot Line Adjustment/Combination                          $350       
Planned Unit Development (PUD)                                   $750      plus escrow
Comprehensive Plan Amendment                                     $500      plus escrow
Variance                                                         $350      plus escrow
Appeals                                                          $100      plus escrow
Conditional Use Permit                                           $500      plus escrow
Interim Use Permit                                               $500      plus escrow
Interim/Special Home Occupation Permit                           $350      plus escrow
Interim/Special Use Permit - renewal                             $100      plus escrow
Site Plan Review                                                 $1,000    plus escrow
Minor Site Plan Review                                           $500      plus escrow
Dynamic Display Sign Planning Review                             $100       
Easement Vacation                                                $125      plus escrow
Easement Creation                                                $125      plus escrow
Planning Application Fees                                                  
Mining/Excavation                                                $350      (+ $50 per acre beyond 1 acre/plus escrow)
Temporary Special Event Permit                                   $50       (Notice to prop. owners: $25/add’l staff review:
                                                                           $25)
Zoning Letter                                                    $50        
Zoning Permit - Swimming Pool                                    $45        
Security Reduction Fee (Adm/Review)                              $50        
Special Meeting (Council and/or Planning)                        $1,000     
Wetland Reviews                                                  $350      plus escrow
Note: Some fees may include more than 1 review
Administrative Enforcement Civil Penalty Fees                              
Class A Offenses                                                 $50        
Class B Offenses                                                 $100       
Class C Offenses                                                 $200       
Increased penalty fees for subsequent violations                           
Engineering Fees                                                           
Grading Permit                                                   $350      (+ $50 per acre beyond 1 acre/plus escrow)
                                                                 $150      Administration fee includes up to 2 street or blvd
Right-of-Way Permit                                                        excavations
                                                              $40       Each additional street excavation per hole
                                                                 $20       Each additional blvd. excavation per hole
Small cell wireless facility                                     $1,500    Per location
Electric Franchise Fees                                                     
Residential                                                      $3.50     per premise per month
SM C & I - Non-Dem                                               $2.50     per premise per month
SM C& I - Demand                                                 $2.50     per premise per month
Large C & I                                                      $10       per premise per month
Public Street Ltg                                                $10       per premise per month
Muni Pumping - N/D                                               $2.50     per premise per month
Muni Pumping - Dem                                               $10       per premise per month
Liquor Fees                                                                
3.2 Malt Beverage (Beer) Off-Sale                                $50        
3.2 Malt Beverage (Beer) On-Sale                                 $100       
Minimum 2:00 A.M. Closing Fee                                    $200       
Liquor Off-Sale                                                  $100       
Drink Set-Up                                                     $150       
Wine On-Sale                                                     $150       
Sunday                                                           $200       
Strong Beer/Wine License                                         $500       
Taproom                                                          $500       
Brewpub                                                          $500       
Liquor On-Sale, Club                                             $300       
Liquor On-Sale                                                   $2,400     
Copy and Map Fees                                                          
B & W (11 x 17 or smaller)                                       $0.25     per page
Color (11 x 17 or smaller)                                       $1        per page
Copies larger than 11 x 17                                       $3        each
Fax service                                                      $1        each
Flash Drive                                                      $20        
Topographic Data (electronic file)                               $25       an acre, minimum $100 fee
Aerial & Topo Map (up to 11 x 17)                                $10       for up to 1 acre plus $5/add'l acre up to 5
County Map                                                       $3         
Solid Waste Collector & Recycling Fees                                     
Garbage Hauler Application Fee                                   $100      (+ $50/
                                                                           vehicle)
Recycling fee (35 gal cart and service - minimum charge)         $5.50     per month
Recycling Fee (64 gal cart and service)                          $5.75     per month
Recycling Fee (96 gal cart and service)                          $6        per month
Recycling Cart Exchange Fee (any size)                           $30        
Recycling Cart Replacement (damaged/lost)                        $75        
Miscellaneous Fees                                                         
Assessment Certification Fee                                     $10        
Assessment Search                                                $25        
Charitable Gambling Premises Permit Invest Fee                   $100       
Donation Boxes                                                   $25       per calendar year
Filing Fee - Mayor/Council positions                             $20        
Golf Cart Permit                                                 $50        
Impound Release Fee                                              $40        
Kennel License                                                   $15       (Residential- Every two years)
Late Licenses Penalty Fee                                        $5         
Late Fee on Unpaid Invoices                                      1.5%/      
                                                                 month
Massage Therapist Enterprise License                                       
   Initial Application                                        $250       
   Renewal Application                                        $200       
Massage Therapist Sole Proprietor/Individual License                       
   Initial Application                                        $150       
   Renewal Application                                        $100       
Mobile Food Unit License Fee                                     $100       
NSF Checks                                                       $30        
Pawn Shop Application Fee                                        $500       
Pawn Shop Annual License Fee                                     $5,000    (+ $1.50 per billable transaction)
Peddler and Transient Merchant License                           $100      annually per application
Replacement Compost/Brush Facility Access Card Fee               $5         
Scheduled Street Sweeping                                        $100      an hour (minimum 2 hours)
Unscheduled Street Sweeping                                      $150      an hour (minimum 2 hours)
Vacant Property Maintenance                                      $85       an hour (minimum 2 hours)
Vactor truck                                                     $150      an hour (includes 2 employees)
 
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07; Am. Ord. 0703, passed 7-10-07; Am. Ord. 0706, passed
11-27-07; Am. Ord. 0806, passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 0807, passed 10-14-08; Am.
Ord. 0808, passed 12-9-08; Am. Ord. 0901, passed 2-10-09; Am. Ord. 0904, passed
11-24-09; Am. Ord. 1006, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1007, passed 12-28-10; Am.
Ord. 1008, passed 12-28-10; Am. Ord. 1101, passed 1-11-11; Am. Ord. 1108,
passed 11-22-11; Am. Ord. 1202, passed 12-18-12; Am. Ord. 1301, passed 12-17-
13; Am. Ord. 1408, passed 12-23-14; Am. Ord. 1508, passed 12-22-15; Am. Ord.
1609, passed 12-27-16; Am. Ord. 1701, passed 2-14-17; Am. Ord. 1707, passed 12-
26-17; Am. Ord. 1805, passed 9-25-18; Am. Ord. 1808, passed 12-18-18; Am. Ord.
1903, passed 6-25-19; Am. Ord. 1916, passed 12-17-19; Am. Ord. 2005, passed 12-
22-20; Am. Ord. 2006, passed 12-22-20; Am. Ord. 2101, passed 6-22-21; Am. Ord.
2104, passed 12-28-21; Am. Ord. 2201, passed 1-11-22; Am. Ord. 2404, passed 12-
17-24)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER
      
51.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Permit for Joint Powers Board service
   
50.02   Connections
   
50.03   Meters and meter readings
   
50.04   Discontinuance of service
   
50.05   Rates and billing
   
50.06   Lien against property with unpaid water service line charges
   
50.07   Responsibility of service line
Prohibitions and Restrictions
   
50.15   Sprinkling bans and restricted water use
   
50.16   Damaging meters
   
50.17   Taking water without authority
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PERMIT FOR JOINT POWERS BOARD SERVICE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   JOINT WATER BOARD (JWB). A joint water supply for the communities of
Albertville, Hanover, and Saint Michael.
   PERSON. Any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, or
entity, other than a political subdivision that is a member of the Joint Water
Board or any employee, officer, agent, or representative of the Joint Water
Board or any of its members acting in the line of duty and/or on behalf of the
Board and/or its members.
   WATER or JOINT WATER BOARD WATER. Water obtained from a hydrant or other
water dispensing device owned and/or operated by the Joint Water Board or the
city that is not controlled and/or operated by a Joint Water Board customer.
   (B)   Joint Water Board water may be obtained subject to the following:
      (1)   Any person desiring to take, use, or obtain Joint Water Board water
shall make application for a water permit to the Joint Water Board on a form to
be provided by the Joint Water Board.
      (2)   No water may be obtained unless a permit has been acquired therefor
from the Joint Water Board. No permit shall be issued until the applicant
submits the required application to the Joint Water Board.
      (3)   No person shall obtain water from the Joint Water Board at any
source other than the Pumphouse hydrant located at 11100 50th Street, N.E.,
Albertville, Minnesota, unless otherwise specified on the permit. Water may
only be obtained from the Pumphouse hydrant when a back flow valve provided by
the Joint Water Board is properly installed and used.
      (4)   When a specified hydrant is permitted other than that which is
located at the pumphouse, a hydrant meter and backflow prevention device must
be used. A hydrant meter and backflow preventer can be rented from the JWB
office. If a customer provides the BFP device and/or hydrant meter, a JWB
representative must approve.
      (5)   Permits for JWB water use are subject to all applicable fees, as
established from time to time by the JWB.
   (C)   Any person violating the provisions of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to the punishment
provided for in § 50.99 and shall also reimburse the Joint Water Board for all
costs incurred in remedying damage, including, but not limited to,
contamination and “brown water” resulting from the violation. Each unauthorized
taking of water shall constitute a separate offense. Conviction of a violation
of this section shall not preclude the Joint Water Board or this political
subdivision from pursuing any other recourse available at law.
(Ord. 82, passed 9-8-92) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.02 CONNECTIONS.
   Unless special permission is granted in writing by the Council, every
premises served by any utility owned by the municipality shall have a separate
meter. All service connections shall be made and installed according to
regulations established by the city and JWB, which may be modified from time to
time.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-56) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.03 METERS AND METER READINGS.
   Every customer shall purchase and install a JWB designated meter. Meters
shall be maintained and replaced as needed by the Water Department. For the
purpose of reading meters, duly authorized employees of the Water Department of
this city shall have authority to legally enter upon any premises at a
reasonable hour. Each customer shall read their own meter quarterly and submit
the reading to the designated location by the due date.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-56)
§ 50.04 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The municipality reserves the right to discontinue service of water without
notice when the same is necessary in the repair of the system, or any part
thereof. Service may be discontinued for the nonpayment of bills after
reasonable notice.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-56)
§ 50.05 RATES AND BILLING.
   Water bills shall be payable quarterly by the date due specified on the
bill. Rates for water used for each quarter is calculated by using the meter
supplying each service. Water sold shall be measured by meters, but where
necessary a flat rate of not less than the minimum charge may be established by
the Council and JWB. All new customers must notify the billing office upon
change of billing account information and to schedule a final meter reading.
Similarly, all customers moving out of the system shall notify the billing
office and provide forwarding information for final billing.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-56)
§ 50.06 LIEN AGAINST PROPERTY WITH UNPAID WATER SERVICE LINE CHARGES.
   (A)   Special assessment lien. Pursuant to the authority of M.S. § 429.101
(1)(d) as it may be amended from time to time, all property which benefits from
the installation of water service lines shall be subject to a special
assessment lien for delinquent and unpaid charges associated with the
installation of the water service lines together with interest thereon, as set
forth in divisions (B) and (C) of this section.
   (B)   Procedure. A bill for the charges associated with the installation of
a water service line benefitting a property shall be sent by the city to the
owner of record of the property benefitted, at the address contained in the
city records. Any bill not paid within 30 days after mailing by the city shall
be deemed to be delinquent. Thereafter, the delinquent water service charge
shall be certified to the City Clerk who shall prepare an assessment roll each
year providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective
properties involved. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the City Council
for adoption on or before November 1 of each year. Upon such adoption, the City
Clerk shall certify the assessment roll to the County Auditor for collection
along with taxes.
   (C)   Interest charges. The City Council may, by resolution, determine and
impose an interest charge to be levied on the outstanding balance of any unpaid
water service line charge on November 1 of any year. Interest shall accrue from
the date the water service line charge is certified to the County Auditor until
paid in full. Interest may be collected along with the water service line
charge pursuant to division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 118, passed 11-10-98)
§ 50.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF SERVICE LINE.
   The water service line from the curb stop is owned by and shall be
maintained by the owner of the property serviced by such service line. The
property owner must bear the cost of installing the water service line to the
water main between the building and the water main service stub; if no stub is
present, the property owner is responsible for connecting to the main in a
location determined by the city. The property owner is also responsible for all
maintenance and repairs to the water service line between the curb stop and the
building being served. The owner shall defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the
city from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by
the installation of the building water service line.
(Ord. 1603, passed 3-8-16; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS
§ 50.15 SPRINKLING BANS AND RESTRICTED WATER USE.
   (A)   In case of emergency or water supply shortage, as determined by the
Joint Water Board, the City Council or Joint Water Board may, by resolution,
limit the times and hours during which water may be used for sprinkling,
irrigation, car washing, air conditioning, or other specified uses. New sod
and/or seeding is exempt from these restrictions unless there is determined to
be a water shortage that is a threat to health and safety.
   (B)   The City Council shall require compliance with any or all of these
restrictions or any modifications of or additions to the restrictions contained
herein, whatever is deemed necessary by the Joint Water Board and when directed
to do so by the Board.
   (C)   After publication of the resolution, any person violating the terms
and conditions of the resolution and this section shall be penalized as
provided in §
50.99.
   (D)   The Joint Water Board may shut off water at the street following the
third violation until such time as the property owner complies with the
restrictions. A shut-off and turn-on fee will be added to the penalties.
(Ord. 33, passed 6-14-77; Am. Ord. 97, passed 3-26-96) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.16 DAMAGING METERS.
   No person shall damage or knowingly or negligently permit damage to be done
to a water meter on his or her premises or elsewhere. Any person damaging any
such meter or knowingly or negligently permitting the same to be damaged shall
pay all costs of making the required repairs to said meters upon demand
therefor by the city. In addition, any person damaging any such meter or
knowingly permitting the same to be damaged shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
50.99.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-2-56) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.17 TAKING WATER WITHOUT AUTHORITY.
   It is hereby declared a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
50.99 for any person, firm, or corporation to take any service described herein
without proper authority therefor.
(Ord. 11, passed 4-3-56) Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99
   (B)   Whoever violates §
50.15 shall be subject to a fine, which is established by the city and JWB and
may be modified from time to time for each day of violation. This fine shall
then be added to the customer’s next water bill, and any customer who wishes to
challenge this charge shall be granted a public hearing to determine “just
cause.”
(Ord. 33, passed 6-14-77; Am. Ord. 97, passed 3-26-96)
   (C)   Whoever violates § 50.16 or § 50.17 shall be punished by a fine of not
to exceed $100 or by imprisonment for not to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-2-56)
   (D)   Whoever violates §
50.01 (unauthorized hydrant use) shall be subject to a fine per violation as
set from time to time by the Joint Water Board.
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Required use of sewers
   
51.03   Subsurface sewage treatment systems (SSTS)
Building Sewers and Connections
   
51.15   Permits
   
51.16   Responsibility of service line
   
51.17   Building sewers
   
51.18   Connections
   
51.19   Excavations
   
51.20   Garage drains
Use of Treatment Facilities
   
51.30   Storm water, non-contact cooling water, and the like
   
51.31   Discharges; prohibited wastes and waters
   
51.32   Discharges; restricted wastes and waters
   
51.33   Discharge control options of city
   
51.34   Dilution in lieu of treatment prohibited
   
51.35   Pretreatment flow-equalizing facilities
   
51.36   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
51.37   Control manholes
   
51.38   Tests and analyses
   
51.39   Accidental discharges
   
51.40   Deposits and obstructions
   
51.41   Repair and maintenance of connections
   
51.42   Motor vehicle washing and service facilities
   
51.43   Liability for damage to sewer system
   
51.44   Special agreements for use of system
Prohibitions
   
51.55   Damage to treatment facilities
Sewer Service Charge System
   
51.65   Sewer service charge system (SSCS)
   
51.66   Sewer service fund (SSF)
   
51.67   Administration of charge system and fund
Storm Water Disposal
   
51.75   Purpose
   
51.76   Prohibited acts and regulations
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.80   Wastewater System Operator
   
51.81   Inspections
   
51.98   Violations
   
51.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of state individual sewage treatment system standards, see §
155.053
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The City of St. Michael, or its authorized representative.
   BASEMENT DRAINS. Any and all catch basins, drain pipes, tiles, or other
devices laid in, under, around, or outside any basement or foundation of any
structures, to collect, carry and prevent, surface, seeping or percolating
waters, away and from the foundation or out of the basement of any such
buildings or structures in the city; but it shall not be construed to include
any drain whose purpose is to merely drain sanitary sewage.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning ten
feet outside of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CISTERN. Any structural receptacle located in basements or above or below
the ground in which drain or other waters are stored for which persons have
domestic or other uses.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of St. Michael as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal action at a
future time. The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   COD or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specifically constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge to users of the wastewater treatment facility
for the purpose of repaying capital costs.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit of wastewater volume of 275
gallons per day at a strength not greater than NDSW.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling, preparation,
cooking, and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including nonbiodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any entity as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual (latest edition), as categorized below, that discharges wastewater to
the sewer:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, forestry, and fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, communications, electric, gas, and
sanitary sewers;
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   Any user whose discharges, singly or by interaction with other
wastes, wastewaters which:
         (a)   Contaminate the sludge of the wastewater treatment system;
         (b)   Injure or interfere with the treatment process;
         (c)   Create a public nuisance or hazard;
         (d)   Have an adverse effect on the waters receiving wastewater
treatment plant discharges;
         (e)   Exceed NDSW limitations;
         (f)   Exceed normal residential unit volumes of wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid, and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, and processing of natural resources, as
distinct from residential or normal domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). Waste other than wastewater that enters the sewer
system from the ground or from surface runoff, as defined in Minnesota Rules.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities, processes, or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS
permit. The term includes prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the
city in accordance with published regulations providing guidelines under
Section 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or any regulations developed pursuant to
the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901 et seq.), or the Clean Air Act (42
USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 USC 2601 et seq.), all
as the same may be amended from time to time, or more stringent state criteria
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MAY. Permissive.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of such treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 USC 1317(b)) as it may be amended from time to time.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402
and 405 of the Act (33 USC 1342 and 33 USC 1345) as they may be amended from
time to time.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflows into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration or during which the only pollutant
added to the water is heat.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is not
used as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE (NDSW). Wastewater that is primarily
introduced by residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 250
mg/l and a suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 250 mg/l.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT COSTS (OM&R). Expenditures necessary
to provide for the dependable, economical, and efficient functioning of the
treatment facility throughout its design life, including operator training and
permit fees. Replacement refers to equipment replacement costs, not the cost of
future replacement of the entire facility.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into publicly owned treatment
facilities.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is used
primarily as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   ROOF DRAINS. Any and all devices, troughs or pipes that collect or gather
any and all waters produced by rains or melted snows and ice on the roofs of
any buildings or structures in the city.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect wastewaters
from individual point source discharges and connections.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer and a storm
sewer.
      FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a public
authority.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained, and controlled by a public
authority.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface
waters which are not intentionally admitted.
      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry storm
waters, surface runoff, ground water, sub-surface water, street wash water,
drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The total of the user charge and the debt service
charge.
   SHALL. Mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility who:
      (1)   Is subject to or potentially subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards promulgated under Section 307(b) or (c) of the Act (33
USC 1317(b) or (c)) as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   Has as its wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to Section
307(a) and Section 502 of the Act (33 USC 1317(a)) as it may be amended from
time to time;
      (3)   Has a nondomestic flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (4)   Has a nondomestic flow greater than 5% of the flow in the
municipality’s wastewater treatment facilities; or
      (5)   Is determined by the treatment authority to have a significant
impact or potential for significant impact, either singly or in combination
with other contributing industries, on the wastewater treatment facilities, the
quality of sludge, the facilities’ effluent quality, or air emissions generated
by the new system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in the quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of
duration longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the
collection and/or performance of the wastewater treatment facilities.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions, and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07 for a disposal system as defined by
M.S. § 115.01(8) as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUMP PUMP. Any pump or device used to pump water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension of, water,
wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,”
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 USC 1317(a)) as it may be amended from time to time.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities. (See Non-Contact Cooling Water)
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER CHARGE. A charge to a user of a treatment facility for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATOR. The official of the city designated by the City
Council and certified to operate the wastewater system.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES or TREATMENT FACILITIES. An arrangement of
any devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by
the city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling,
and reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage, or industrial wastewater,
or structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and
their appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling additions, and
alterations thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water
supply such as standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works
including land which are an integral part of the treatment process or are used
for ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 59, passed 5-14-85; Am. Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.02 REQUIRED USE OF SEWERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under its jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage, or objectionable waste except for the spreading of manure for
agriculture-related uses.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater
or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy (portable toilet), privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or
other facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater, unless the
public sewer is not reasonably available to the property as determined by the
City Engineer. Privy’s are permitted only on a temporary basis on construction
sites or city owned parkland in conjunction with city park functions. Privy’s
shall be allowed for exempt assemblies listed in §
95.04 and be located on site no longer than 48 hour period before and after the
event.
   (D)   The owner of any house or building constructed after the date of this
chapter shall be required at the owner's expense to install an approved service
connection to the public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter and as required to obtain a building permit from the city. The owner of
any house, building, or property used for human occupancy, employment,
recreation, or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged, and which is
situated within the city, and which is not presently connected to the public
sewer, and which utilizes a private septic system may pump the septic system
and/or make routine maintenance of the private septic system, but shall not
upgrade or replace the private septic system, and instead shall, within 30 days
after the private septic system becomes inoperable, or upon 30-days written
notice from the Wastewater System Operator, be required at the owner's expense
to install an approved service connection to the public sewer in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter, unless the public sewer is not reasonably
available to the property as determined by the City Engineer.
   (E)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (D) above, the city will
undertake to have the connection made and shall assess the cost thereof against
the benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at a
rate determined by the City Council and shall be certified to the County
Auditor and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as
assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition
to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any private facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater,
unless the public sewer is not reasonably available to the property as
determined by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 0408, passed 12-14-04; Am. Ord. 0802,
passed 3-11-08) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; privy vaults, see §
91.16
§ 51.03 SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS (SSTS).
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.02(D), the house or building sewer shall be connected to a subsurface sewage
treatment system (SSTS) complying with the provisions of this section. The
provisions of Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080-7083, Subsurface Sewage Treatment
Systems Program, as it may be amended, are hereby incorporated in this code by
reference and shall constitute the minimum standards under which an individual
SSTS may be installed, operated and maintained.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of an SSTS of the house or
building, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city’s
authorized representative.
   (C)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of an SSTS shall comply
with all requirement of Minnesota Rules Chapter 7080, and applicable chapter of
this code.
   (D)   The owner of the house or building shall operate and maintain the SSTS
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to replace or supersede any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency, the State Department of Health, or other responsible federal, state, or
local governmental authorities.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 1402, passed 9-9-14; Am. Ord. 2102, passed
8-24-21) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
Cross-reference:
   Adoption of state individual sewage treatment system standards, see §
155.053
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.15 PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the city. Permits and applications therefor
shall be available in the offices of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, the
name of the owner, the street number of the building to be connected, and how
the building is to be occupied. No person shall extend any private building
drain beyond the limits of the building or property for which the service
connection permit has been given.
   (C)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: for residential
and commercial service; and for service to establishments producing industrial
wastes. In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or any other information considered pertinent in the judgment
of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization, must provide
information describing its wastewater constituents, characteristics, and type
of activity.
   (D)   Any new connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to, capacity or flow, BOD5, and suspended solids, as determined
by the City Council.
   (E)   Any person desiring to make a service connection with public sewers
shall apply in writing to the City Council with satisfactory evidence that the
applicant is trained or skilled in the business and qualified to make the
connection. All applications shall be referred to the City Administrator for
recommendation to the City Council. If approved by the Council, such permission
for connection to the public sewer shall be issued by the City Administrator
upon receipt of the financial security herein provided.
   (F)   Any person who desires to receive permission from the city to connect
to the city sewer shall file, annually, with the City Administrator, a
certification in the form to be provided by the City Administrator, which
certification shall include a representation that the party seeking permission
to connect to the city sewer is qualified to do so, and shall defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the city from all suits, accidents, and damage
that may arise by reason of any opening in any street, alley, or public ground
made by the person or by those in the person’s employment or under the person’s
control for any purpose whatsoever; and certifying that the person will replace
and restore the street and alley over such opening to the condition existing
prior to the installation, adequately guard the opening with barricades and
lights, and keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the City Engineer
and Wastewater System Operator, and shall conform in all respects to the rules
and regulations of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be
imposed on the person by law.
   (G)   The fee for making service connections shall be as set by City Council
resolution from time to time. All permits for connection to the public sewer
shall expire 60 days after the date of the permit unless suspended or revoked
prior thereto by the Council for cause.
   (H)   The Council may suspend or revoke any permit issued for connection to
the public sewer under this subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
permit;
      (2)   Incompetence of the person applying for the permit;
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this subchapter or any rule
or regulation pertaining to the making of service connections;
      (4)   Failure to adequately protect, defend, indemnify, and hold harmless
the city and the user.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.16 RESPONSIBILITY OF SERVICE LINE.
   The sanitary sewer line between the building and the sewer main service
stub, or if no stub is present the sewer main, is owned and maintained by the
owner of the property serviced by such service line. The property owner must
bear the cost of installing the sanitary sewer service line to the sanitary
sewer service stub, if no stub is present, the property owner is responsible
for connecting to the main in a location determined by the city. The property
owner is also responsible for all maintenance and repairs to the sanitary sewer
service line between the main and the building being served. The owner shall
defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the city from any loss or damage that may
be directly or indirectly occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94; Am. Ord. 1603, passed 3-8-16)
§ 51.17 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, driveway, or yard. The
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such connection aforementioned.
   (B)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Wastewater System Operator,
to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The size, slopes, alignment, and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling of the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the state building and plumbing codes or other applicable rules
and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions, or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary
sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.18 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation drains,
areaway drains, or other sources of surface runoff of ground water to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater treatment facilities.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the state building and plumbing codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCS Manual of Practice No. 9.
All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/ inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
   (C)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Wastewater System Operator.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.19 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.20 GARAGE DRAINS.
   Floor drains in private garages classified as Group U, Division 1
occupancies serving one and two family dwellings may discharge to daylight if
approved by the Building Official. For the purporse of this chapter, the term
"Private Garages Classified as Group U, Division 1" shall be defined by the
Minnesota State Building Code as adopted in §
151.01.
(Ord.0408, passed 12-14-04) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
USE OF TREATMENT FACILITIES
§ 51.30 STORM WATER, NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water, such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage, or
non-contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.31 DISCHARGES; PROHIBITED WASTES AND WATERS.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater treatment facilities or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, ashes, bones, cinders, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, tissues,
paunch manure, hair, hides, or paper cups, milk containers, etc., either whole
or ground by garbage grinders.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment facilities.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either alone or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt any
wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
facilities. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any
pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 USC 1317(a)) and
M.S. § 115.01(14) as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.32 DISCHARGES; RESTRICTED WASTES AND WATERS.
   The following substances, materials, waters, or wastes shall be limited in
discharges to the wastewater treatment facilities to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either sewers or the treatment facilities’
treatment process or equipment; will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream and/or soil, vegetation, and ground water; or will not
otherwise endanger life, limb, or public property or constitute a nuisance. The
city may set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations
below if, in its opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability of wastes,
the city will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject
waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the wastewater treatment process, the
city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the treatment plant, and other pertinent factors. The
limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or
wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without
approval of the Wastewater System Operator are as follows:
   (A)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the treatment facilities to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the treatment
facilities resulting in interference therein.
   (B)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0° and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
   (C)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
“slug” as defined herein.
   (D)   A discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more
than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   (E)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
51.01. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels,
institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments, or similar
places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the premises or
when served by caterers.
   (F)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either alone
or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public nuisance
or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for their
maintenance and repair.
   (G)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (H)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage, or ground
water.
   (I)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited
to, fuller’s earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved solids
(such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in such
quantities that would cause disruption of the wastewater treatment facilities.
   (J)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
as may exceed limits established by the Wastewater System Operator in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing arsenic, total chromium, copper, zinc,
cadmium, cyanide, lead, mercury, nickel, silver, and similar objectionable or
toxic substances to such degree that any such material received in the
composite wastewater at the treatment works exceeds the limits established by
the Wastewater System Operator for such materials.
   (L)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of such
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
such materials at the treatment facilities, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
51.44.
   (M) Waters or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment process employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the effluent cannot meet the
requirements or otherwise causes a violation of any statute, rule, regulation,
or ordinance of any regulatory agency or state or federal regulatory body
having jurisdiction over discharge into the receiving waters.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.33 DISCHARGE CONTROL OPTIONS OF CITY.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §§
51.31 and
51.32; which in the judgment of the city will have a deleterious effect upon
the treatment facilities, processes, or equipment, receiving waters, and/or
soil, vegetation, and ground water; or which otherwise create a hazard to life
or constitute a public nuisance, the city may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)) and
all addenda thereof and as may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating, and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation, and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner’s expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.34 DILUTION IN LIEU OF TREATMENT PROHIBITED.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any manner attempt to
or dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.31 and
51.32 or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment standards or any
state requirement.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.35 PRETREATMENT FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation by and at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.36 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Wastewater System Operator, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
51.32(B), any flammable wastes as specified in §
51.31(A), sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All
interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner
shall be responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured
materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means
of disposal which are subject to review by the Wastewater System Operator. Any
removal and hauling of the collected materials not performed by the owner’s
personnel must be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.37 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building
sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. Such
structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in
accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by
the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner so as to
be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.38 TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests, and analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state, and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The
owner shall bear the expense of all measurement, analyses, and reporting
required by the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the
right to take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent
laboratory.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of “Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater,” published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, locations, times, duration, and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Wastewater System
Operator.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.39 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Wastewater System Operator for review and approval prior to
construction of the facility. Review and approval of such plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the
user’s facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users
shall notify the Wastewater System Operator immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable
countermeasures to be taken by the Wastewater System Operator to minimize
damage to the treatment facilities. Such notification will not relieve any user
of any liability for any expense, loss, or damage to the treatment facilities
or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof
under any state and/or federal law. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees whom to call
in the event of a slug or accidental discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or discover such a discharge are advised of the
emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.40 DEPOSITS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction of flow to pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair, or alter the same, and perform such other work as the Wastewater
System Operator may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Wastewater System Operator may cause such work
to be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.41 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF CONNECTIONS.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be done as
the Wastewater System Operator may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
section, and the Wastewater System Operator may then cause the work to be done
and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the
name of the city.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.42 MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING AND SERVICE FACILITIES.
   The owner and operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt, or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.43 LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO SEWER SYSTEM.
   In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this subchapter, the city may assess against any person the cost
of repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result
of the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.44 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS FOR USE OF SYSTEM.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or State Disposal System permit limitations are not
violated.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
PROHIBITIONS
§ 51.55 DAMAGE TO TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   No person shall willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is part
of the wastewater treatment facilities. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 51.65 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM (SSCS).
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a sewer system. All revenue collected from
users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be used for annual operation,
maintenance, replacement, and capital costs. Each user shall pay a
proportionate share of operation, maintenance, and replacement costs based on
the user’s proportionate contribution to the total wastewater loading.
   (B)   Charges to users of the wastewater treatment facility shall be
determined and fixed in a Sewer Service Charge System (SSCS) developed
according to the provisions of this chapter. The SSCS adopted by resolution
upon enactment of this chapter shall be published in the local newspaper and
shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in the sewer service
rates and charges shall be adopted by Council resolution and published in the
local paper.
   (C)   Revenues collected through the SSCS shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as the Sewer Service Fund (SSF).
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.66 SEWER SERVICE FUND (SSF).
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to
receive all revenues generated by the SSCS and all other income dedicated to
the wastewater treatment facility.
   (B)   The SSF administered by the city shall be separate and apart from all
other accounts. Revenue received by the SSF shall be transferred to the
following accounts established as income and expenditure accounts:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement;
      (3)   Debt Retirement for the treatment facility (if any).
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.67 ADMINISTRATION OF CHARGE SYSTEM AND FUND.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall maintain a proper system of accounts and
records suitable for determining the operation, maintenance, replacement
(OM&R), and debt retirement costs of the treatment facilities, and shall
furnish the Council with a report of such costs annually.
   (B)   At that time, the Council shall determine whether sufficient revenue
is being generated for the effective management of the facilities and debt
retirement. The Council will also determine whether the user charges are
distributed proportionately. If necessary, the SSCS shall be revised to insure
proportionality of user charges and sufficient funds.
   (C)   In accordance with state requirements, each user will be notified
annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the Sewer
Service Charge attributable to OM&R.
   (D)   Sewer service charges shall be billed on a quarterly basis. Any bill
not paid in full 15 days after the due date will be considered delinquent. At
that time the user will be notified regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be imposed as determined by the City
Council.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
STORM WATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.75 PURPOSE.
   The Council finds that the City Sanitary Sewage Collection and Treatment
Facilities are unable to receive and dispose of the present volume of
unpolluted water including, but not limited to, ground water and natural
precipitation now being intentionally pumped or directed into such facilities;
that, if allowed to continue, a potential danger to the health of persons and
the safety of property exists in the collection of such waters thereby causing
raw sewage to back up into basements and on to property of citizens; that, if
allowed to continue, the potential danger exists of exceeding the capacity of
the treatment facilities, thereby impairing the property operation thereof and
complete treatment of other sewage; and, that the restricted and regulated
installation, use and operation of sump pumps and other regulations of storm
water disposal are therefore necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of residents.
(Ord. 59, passed 5-14-85)
§ 51.76 PROHIBITED ACTS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited water. From and after the passage and publication of this
subchapter, as provided by law, it shall be unlawful for any person or persons
directly or indirectly, to drain, discharge, or cause to be drained or
discharged any storm water, surface water, or ground water from cisterns, or
from roof drains, basement drains, or sump pumps into the sanitary sewer system
of the city.
   (B)   Nonconforming connections to be disconnected. From and after the
passage and publication of this subchapter as provided by law, it shall be
unlawful for any person or persons, directly or indirectly, to continue the
drainage of waters from cisterns, roof drains and sump pumps into the sanitary
sewer system in the city, and all such person or persons, from and after the
effective date of this subchapter shall forthwith disconnect all cisterns, roof
drains, basement drains, and sump pumps now connected to the sanitary sewer
system.
   (C)   Method of sump pump drainage. All dwellings and other buildings and
structures which require, because of the infiltration of water into basements,
crawl spaces and the like, a sump pump system to discharge excess water, shall
have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time
discharge water into the sanitary sewer system, except as otherwise provided
herein. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year-round
discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or to the storm sewer system. Unless directly connected to the storm
sewer system by an underground tile or line system, or some other verifiable
means, it shall consist of a discharge line which shall be constructed with
rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized or black pipe) one inch inside diameter
minimum with a union or other approved coupling for easy disconnection for
repair or replacement. The discharge line shall protrude to the outside to a
permanently drilled hole or opening, and shall extend at least three feet
outside of the foundation wall of the dwelling, building or other structure
with a hose connection. The line leading from the sump pump shall have a
connection on the outside of the dwelling, building or structure which shall
prevent it from being pulled back in through the hole. There shall also be
allowed an additional connection to be installed at the pump for connection of
a secondary line to discharge into the sanitary sewer system, but such
secondary discharge line capable of discharging directly into the sanitary
sewer system shall be used only after a waiver has been obtained pursuant to
division (E), and only according to the terms of the waiver.
   (D)   Enforcement. The Building Inspector and other authorized employees of
the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall at reasonable
times be permitted to enter upon all properties connected to the sanitary sewer
system for the purpose of an inspection and observation, to determine whether
the requirements of this subchapter are being complied with.
   (E)   Appeals to City Council.
      (1)   Wavers. The City Council shall have the power and duty of hearing
and deciding requests for waivers from the applicability of the provisions of
this subchapter where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration. Before
applying for a waiver, a property owner shall have discussed his or her
hardship with the City Clerk.
      (2)   Procedure. Application for waivers pursuant to this subchapter
shall be addressed in writing to the City Clerk. The applications shall at a
minimum identify the property for which the waiver is being applied for, the
name of the property owner/applicant, and describe in detail what
characteristics of the subject property create an undue hardship. Upon receipt
of the written application for waiver, the City Clerk shall place the matter on
the City Council meeting agenda when the applicant can be in attendance. Within
a reasonable time after the City Council meeting, the City Council shall make
its order deciding on the matter and serve a copy of such order upon the
applicant by mail. Upon approval of an application for a waiver, a property
owner shall be allowed to temporarily pump directly into the sanitary sewer
system during such fixed times as determined by the City Council, and only
according to the terms of said waiver and provided the applicant agrees to pay
an additional fee for sanitary sewer service as set forth elsewhere in this
subchapter. The beginning and ending of such time of temporary pumping into the
sanitary sewer system by a holder of a waiver shall be given by mailed notice
to each owner or occupant of the premises for which the written waiver has been
issued.
      (3)   Additional fees for property owners granted waivers. Upon approval
of an application for waiver, the applicant agrees to pay an additional fee for
sanitary sewer service at a rate to be set from time to time by the City
Council.
(Ord. 59, passed 5-14-85)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.80 WASTEWATER SYSTEM OPERATOR.
   The Wastewater System Operator shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city, and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and
efficient public sewer is maintained. The authorized representative may
delegate responsibilities to designated representatives.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.81 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Wastewater System Operator or other duly authorized employee of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, testing, repair, and maintenance pertinent to the discharges to the
city’s sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Industrial users shall be required to provide information concerning
industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the type and source of
discharge to the collection system. An industry may withhold information
considered confidential. However, the industry must establish that the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors and that
the industrial process does not have deleterious results on the treatment
process.
   (C)   The Wastewater System Operator or other duly authorized employee of
the city bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter all private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated
easement for the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater
facilities lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
the easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon determination that a user has violated or is violating applicable
provisions of this chapter or a related permit, the city may issue a notice of
violation. Within 30 days of notification, the violator shall submit to the
city an adequate explanation for the violation and a plan for the correction
and prevention of such occurrences, including specific actions required.
Submission of such a plan in no way relieves the violator of liability for any
violations occurring before or after the notice of violation.
   (B)   Any violation shall be punished by a fine as provided in §
51.99. Such fines may be added to the user’s next sewer service charge, and
will hence be subject to the same collection regulations as specified § 51.68.
Users desiring to dispute a fine must file a request for the city to reconsider
within 30 days of the issuance of the fine. If the city believes that the
request has merit, a hearing on the matter shall be convened within 30 days of
receipt of the request.
   (C)   To collect delinquent sewer service charge accounts, the city may file
a civil action or levy a lien against the violator. The violator shall also be
responsible for payment of the city’s attorney fees and expenses incurred. The
violator shall be liable for interest on all balances at a rate of 18%
annually.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any
expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the city by reason of such violation,
including attorney fees and court costs.
(Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter is subject to a fine not exceeding $700.
Each day in which a violation occurs shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (B)   Any violation of
§§ 51.75 and
51.76 is subject to a fine not exceeding $700 or imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not exceeding 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 59, passed 5-14-85; Am. Ord. 89, passed 11-22-94)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Adoption of state traffic laws
General Regulations
   
70.10   Negligent operation
   
70.11   Unreasonable acceleration
   
70.12   Erratic driving
   
70.13   Truck traffic
   
70.14   Excessive vehicle noise; including engine compression braking
Weight Limitations
   
70.25   Authority
   
70.26   Purpose
   
70.27   Applicability
   
70.28   Restrictions generally
   
70.29   Emergency restrictions
   
70.30   Permits for vehicles in excess of weight limitations
   
70.31   Weighing
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Traffic regulations related to firefighting operations, see §
32.50 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 ADOPTION OF STATE TRAFFIC LAWS.
   The regulatory provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of highways,
streets, and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and made a
part of this chapter as completely as if set out here in full.
(Ord. 13, passed 5-3-60) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 70.10 NEGLIGENT OPERATION.
   No person shall drive a vehicle on any street or highway within the city at
a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent, having due regard to the
traffic, surface, width of highway, and other conditions then existing, or
operate a vehicle carelessly or heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety
of others.
(Ord. 4, passed 3-24-50) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.11 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   (A)   No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an
unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public highway, street, parking lot,
alley, or other public property, or upon any private street or road freely used
by the general public.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. Acceleration which
unnecessarily breaks traction between a tire or tires of the motor vehicle and
the driving surface, thereby causing squealing or a screeching sound by the
tire or tires or the unnecessary throwing of sand or gravel by the tire or
tires, or both.
   (C)   Prima facie evidence of such unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be
unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the
throwing of sand or gravel by the tires of the vehicle or both.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-24-88) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.12 ERRATIC DRIVING.
   No person shall drive a motor vehicle on a public highway, street, parking
lot, alley, or other public property, or upon a private street or road freely
used by the general public, at erratic or irregular and changing speeds so as
to crate a hazard to him- or herself or other persons or property or so to
interfere with other traffic in the area.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-24-88) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.13 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   Prohibited acts. No person shall drive, operate, or control any motor
vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds on any city
street posted with a sign that substantially states “No Truck Traffic” on
streets designated by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to any vehicle delivering
products to residential customers or providing a service to a residential
customer.
(Ord. 94, passed 9-12-95) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.14 EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE; INCLUDING ENGINE COMPRESSION BRAKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working condition; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE BRAKE. A dynamic brake, Jake brake, Jacobs brake, c-brake, Paccar
brake, transmission brake or other similar engine braking device or system that
uses the engine and transmission to impede the forward motion of the motor
vehicle by compression of the engine.
   (B)   Excessive vehicle noise.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or
permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a
muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with
all applicable state laws and regulations.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
      (3)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and punished
by a fine of no more than $300.
   (C)   Signing. Signs stating “NO ENGINE BRAKING” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “NO ENGINE
BRAKING” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit from the
Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section are in
full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
(Ord. 2006, passed 12-22-20)
WEIGHT LIMITATIONS
§ 70.25 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.87 as it may be amended from time to time, local
authorities may, by ordinance, prohibit the operation of trucks or other
commercial vehicles, or may impose limitations as to the weight thereof, upon
highways and streets under local jurisdiction and control.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98)
§ 70.26 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the use of city streets and
public thoroughfares with respect to all manner of hauling activities which,
due to excessive operating weight, may tend to adversely affect the useful life
of the streets.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98)
§ 70.27 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall have no application upon any streets located in the
city not publicly dedicated to and maintained by the city.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98; Am. Ord. 123, passed 3-23-99)
§ 70.28 RESTRICTIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Prohibited vehicles. All motor vehicles, tractors, trailers, or any
machine or instrument that is driven, pulled, pushed, or parked having axle
weights over five tons per axle are prohibited from traveling on any city
street posted with weight restrictions in the city.
   (B)   Seasonal weight restrictions. The City Council may prohibit the
operation of vehicles upon any street under jurisdiction and control of the
city or impose additional weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated on
such streets whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or
other climatic conditions, will or could be seriously damaged or destroyed
unless the use of vehicles on the street is prohibited or the permissible
weight thereof is reduced. The City Council shall cause to be erected and
maintained signs plainly indicating the prohibition or weight restriction at
each end of that portion of the highway or city street affected thereby. No
person shall operate a vehicle on a restricted street in violation of the
prohibition or restriction, except that travel on certain streets may be
allowed by prior permit of the City Council.
   (C)   Exceptions. The above weight restrictions shall not apply to city,
emergency or public transportation vehicles. The above weight restrictions
shall also not apply to school buses and Head Start buses when the single axle
weight of the school bus or Head Start bus does not exceed 14,000 pounds;
provided, however, that the City Council may restrict any city street under its
jurisdiction and control to a lesser axle weight for school buses and Head
Start buses by written order to the affected school board and Head Start
grantees 24 hours in advance of required compliance with such lesser axle
weight restrictions.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98; Am. Ord. 123, passed 3-23-99) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.29 EMERGENCY RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Public Works Supervisor may, without the recommendation of the City
Council, post signs closing or imposing weight restrictions on any city street
provided that such emergency closing shall be effective only for such period of
time as may be reasonable and necessary for the City Council to have the street
inspected.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98)
§ 70.30 PERMITS FOR VEHICLES IN EXCESS OF WEIGHT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   The Public Works Supervisor may issue an “emergency overweight permit”
authorizing an individual to travel with a vehicle having axle weight exceeding
the restrictions herein set forth or otherwise posted on the street. The
individual must make written application to the Public Works Supervisor showing
good cause for the emergency overweight permit. The application shall
specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles, and the streets and particular
routes to be traveled. Emergency overweight permits shall be valid for only a
24-hour period. If granted, the emergency overweight permit shall be carried in
the vehicle and shall be open to inspection.
   (B)   The City Council may issue an “overweight permit” authorizing an
individual to travel with a vehicle having an axle weight exceeding the
restrictions herein set forth or otherwise posted on the street. The individual
receiving such overweight permit must make written application to the City
Council showing good cause for the permit. The application shall specifically
describe the vehicle or vehicles, the streets and particular routes to be
traveled, and the period of time for which the permit is requested. The
application will be reviewed by the City Engineer and the Public Works
Supervisor for recommendation. If granted, the permit shall be carried in the
vehicle at all times and shall be open to inspection.
   (C)   Issuance of an emergency overweight permit or overweight permit
imposes upon the holder of the permit all responsibility for damage caused to
the designated routes by such excess load and the holder of the permit shall
reimburse the city for all reasonable and necessary expenditures to repair and
replace the street to its formed condition.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98) Penalty, see
§ 70.99
§ 70.31 WEIGHING.
   Any peace officer having probable cause to believe that the total weight of
the vehicle and load being operated on a city street is unlawful is authorized
to require the operator of such vehicle to stop and submit such vehicle to a
weighing at the nearest available scale.
(Ord. 113, passed 2-24-98)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in §
70.01 shall be punished by the penalty prescribed in the statutes.
(Ord. 13, passed 5-3-60)
   (C)   A violation of the provisions of §
70.11 or §
70.12 is a petty misdemeanor, except where otherwise provided by statute.
(Ord. 63, passed 5-24-88)
   (D)   A violation of §
70.13 shall be a petty misdemeanor, punishable according to law.
(Ord. 94, passed 9-12-95)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for petty misdemeanors, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No-parking zones
   
71.02   Snow removal periods
   
71.03   Motor homes, trucks, and the like
   
71.04   Parking hours
   
71.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations related to firefighting, see §
32.54
§ 71.01 NO-PARKING ZONES.
   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand on any highway or
street within the city in any of the following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to the fire station;
   (G)   Further than ten feet from the curb or edge of a street, unless
legally designated. No portion of a parked vehicle may extend beyond ten feet
from the curb or edge of street;
   (H)   In a location that is not parallel to the curb or edge of street,
unless legally designated.
(Ord. 4, passed 3-24-50; Am. Ord. 0204, passed 8-13-02) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.02 SNOW REMOVAL PERIODS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate on-street parking
and the placement of any obstructions on city streets during winter months so
as to expedite removal of snow and ice from the city streets.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall be defined as set forth in M.S. § 609.52(1), as amended
from time to time.
   (C)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   In the designated commuter parking spaces located in the city-owned
parking lot at First Street SE, no motor vehicle shall be parked between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. from November 1 through April 1 of each year,
or as signed by the city.
      (2)   On all other streets within the corporate limits of the city, no
motor vehicle shall be parked between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. from
November 1 through April 1 of each year.
      (3)   After a two-inch snowfall, no motor vehicle shall be parked or
allowed to remain on any city street, or city-owned parking lot, at any time,
per the provisions of divisions (1) and (2) above notwithstanding, until
snowplowing of the full width of the street and city-owned parking lot have
been completed.
      (4)   No one shall, at any time, place any object, person, vehicle,
substance, or thing upon any city street or city-owned parking lot, which will
impede, obstruct, or interfere with the maintenance of the street or city-owned
parking lot, including snowplowing. This subsection shall not apply to the
parking of motor vehicles in compliance with this section.
   (D)   Towing and impoundment. Any motor vehicle parked or left remaining on
a city street or city-owned parking lot, in violation of this section may be
summarily towed and impounded without notice to the owner of the motor vehicle
at the direction of any peace officer, and the owner of the motor vehicle shall
be responsible for payment of all towing and impounding fees. Amounts paid by
the owner under this section shall not be deemed to be a penalty or a fine.
(Ord. 101, passed 10-22-96; Am. Ord. 102, passed 12-3-96; Am. Ord. 0903, passed
10-27-09) Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.03 MOTOR HOMES, TRUCKS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council finds that in order to promote the health,
welfare, and safety of the citizens of the city and to promote traffic flow,
that restrictions be placed upon the parking of certain vehicles upon city
streets, or city-owned parking lots, and other designated areas.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall include, without limitation, the following:
      CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheels and designed for
travel, recreation and vacation uses.
      COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. A truck, truck-tractor, semi-trailer, van or bus
having a licensed gross weight over 12,000 pounds.
      MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      PICKUP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck chassis for
use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified as such by the manufacturer of the
trailer.
      TRAILER.  A portable structure built on a chassis, either open or closed,
and designed to be used for moving or hauling materials or objects such as
snowmobiles, boats, jet skis, dirt bikes, and ATVs.
   (C)   General parking prohibitions.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles. Other than persons on emergency calls,
parking of recreational vehicles is prohibited on any public street, highway,
or alley within the city between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   Trucks and commercial vehicles. Other than persons on emergency
calls, parking for longer than 15 minutes of vehicles exceeding a gross vehicle
weight of 12,000 pounds or more , or any truck, trailer, semitrailer, truck-
tractor, road tractor, or vehicle used to commercially haul garbage or rubbish,
or any vehicle or combination of vehicles equipped with more than two axles is
prohibited on any public street, highway or right-of-way which is not
specifically designated as a county road or state highway, unless the vehicle
is in the process of being loaded or unloaded at such location, parking lot or
alley, or in any parking area as required by §
155.050(G)(13). For the purposes of this division, terms defined in M.S. §
169.01 shall apply.
   (D)   Presumption of violator identity. It shall be presumed, for purposes
of this section, that any recreational vehicle or truck in excess of ¾-ton
gross vehicle weight that has been parked in violation of this section shall
have been parked by the owner of the vehicle, or that the driver of the vehicle
was acting as the agent of the owner.
   (E)   Liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by
the city by the reason of such violation, including court costs and reasonable
attorneys fees.
(Ord. 87, passed 7-12-94; Am. Ord. 0204, passed 8-13-02; Am. Ord. 0903, passed
10-27-09; Am. Ord. 1004, passed 7-13-10; Am. Ord. 1704, passed 10-24-17)
Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.04 PARKING HOURS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any
vehicle upon any public street for a continuous period in excess of 48 hours.
   (B)   The Public Works Supervisor may, when authorized by resolution of the
City Council, designate certain streets, blocks or portions of streets or
blocks, and city-owned parking lots, as prohibited parking zones, or limited
parking zones and shall mark by appropriate signs any zones so established.
Such zones shall be established whenever necessary for the convenience of the
public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a free flow of traffic. It
is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any vehicle in a
prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in excess of the sign-posted
limitation, or during sign-posted hours of prohibited parking.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or otherwise obliterate
any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a vehicle by a peace
officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time such vehicle has been
parked.
   (D)   For the purpose of enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less
than one block shall be deemed to have remained stationary.
(Ord. 0204, passed 8-13-02; Am. Ord. 0903, passed 10-27-09)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be penalized as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
71.02 shall be a petty misdemeanor, punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 101, passed 10-22-96; Am. Ord. 102, passed 12-3-96)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Purpose and intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Permitted operation of a recreational motor vehicle
   
72.04   Restrictions of recreational motor vehicles
   
72.05   Minimum equipment requirements
   
72.06   Compliance
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations for the use
of recreational motor vehicles on public and private property in the city. It
is intended to protect life, property, and to prevent public nuisances. No
section hereafter shall be construed to minimize regulations set forth in M.S.
Ch. 168 (Motor Vehicle Registration), as it may be amended from time to time,
M.S. Ch. 169 (Motor Vehicle Operation)/(Driver License Regulations), as it may
be amended from time to time, and M.S. §§ 84.81 et seq. (Snowmobile
Regulations), as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given in M.S. § 84.92, subd.
8, as it may be amended from time to time.
   CLASS 1 ATV. An ATV as defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   CLASS 2 ATV. An ATV as defined by M.S. § 84.92, subd. 10, as it may be
amended from time to time, but not including a golf cart, mini-truck, dune
buggy or go-cart or vehicle designed and used specifically for lawn
maintenance, agriculture, logging or mining purposes.
   DRIVER-OPERATOR. Every person who drives or operates and is in actual
physical control of a recreational vehicle.
   MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with fully operational pedals which may be
propelled by human power or a motor, or by both, with a motor with a capacity
of less than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement, and a maximum of two
brake horsepower, which is capable of a maximum speed of not more than 30 miles
per hour on a flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction when
the motor is engaged.
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A vehicle usually three or four wheeled, which is self-
propelled and is designed to be used to provide transportation on a golf
course.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to a recreational motor vehicle entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE (RMV). A self-propelled vehicle designed for
travel on snow, ice, or natural terrain steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
Snowmobiles, Class 1 ATV, Class 2 ATV, UTV, golf carts, go-carts, mini-bikes,
motorized bicycle, dune buggies, and trail bikes are all RMVs.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 72.03 PERMITTED OPERATION OF A RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE.
   The following recreational motor vehicles shall be specifically permitted
within the corporate limits of the city subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Class 2 ATVs and snowmobiles.
      (1)   Class 2 ATVs shall operate on the extreme right-hand side of the
right-of-way of streets, roadways, or alleys used for other public motor
vehicular travel and that are under the jurisdiction of the city, and follow
all regulations described in M.S. § 84.928, subd. 1, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (2)   Snowmobiles shall operate on the extreme right-hand side of the
right-of-way streets, roadways, or alleys that are used for other public motor
vehicular travel and that are under the jurisdiction of the city, and follow
all regulations described in M.S. § 84.87, subd. 1, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (3)   Owner-operator shall present proof of registration of the Class 2
ATV, if registration is required by M.S. § 84.922, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (4)   Owner-operator shall hold valid insurance complying with M.S. §
65B.48, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Class 2 ATVs and snowmobiles shall obey all city and state traffic
laws when operating vehicles on city streets.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 RESTRICTION OF RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational motor vehicles shall not be allowed, except as
specifically permitted in §
72.03.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor to operate any recreational motor vehicle as
listed in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Class 2 ATVs and snowmobiles shall comply with the following
regulations:
      (1)   Hours. Shall be operated between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 11:00
p.m., except on Fridays, Saturdays, and evenings preceding Thanksgiving,
Christmas, and New Year’s the hours shall be 7:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m.;
      (2)   Speed. Shall not be operated at a rate of speed greater than
reasonable, prudent, or proper under all the surrounding circumstance, but in
no case exceeding 15 mph for snowmobiles and 20 mph for Class 2 ATV in all
residentially zoned areas;
      (3)   Public land, sidewalks and trails. Shall not be operated on
publicly owned lands, including, but not limited to school grounds, city
streets, park property, playgrounds, or recreation areas, nor on any sidewalks
or pathways in the city provided for pedestrian and/or bicycle travel, except
on state designated lands and trails open to Class 2 ATVs and snowmobiles;
      (4)   Ditches. Class 2 ATVs shall not be operated on the bottom or inside
slope of a road ditch, unless on a trail designated for Class 2 ATV;
      (5)   Manner. Shall not be operated at any place in a careless, reckless,
or negligent manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property or to cause injury or damage thereto;
      (6)   Private property. Shall not be operated on private property of
another without specific permission of the owner or person in control of the
property;
      (7)   Under the influence. Shall not be operated while under the
influence of alcohol or drugs as defined in M.S. § 169A.20, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (8)   Animals. Shall not be operated in a manner to intentionally drive,
chase, run over, kill or otherwise take or attempt to take any animal, wild or
domestic;
      (9)   Highway. Shall not be operated on any roadway, shoulder, or inside
bank or slope of any city trunk, county state aid, or county highway in the
city, except as provided in this chapter, nor shall operation on any such
highway be permitted where the roadway directly abuts a public sidewalk or
walkway; and
      (10)   Lights. Shall not be operated without headlight and taillight
illuminated, if the vehicle is equipped with headlight and taillight.
   (D)   All other recreational motor vehicles, including, but not limited to,
Class 1 ATVs, motorized golf carts, go-carts, mini-bikes, motorized bicycles,
dune buggies, and utility task vehicles, are not permitted on any city street,
county or state highway, sidewalk, pathway, trail, recreational area, or any
other public area, nor on any private property of another without permission to
do so by the owner of the property.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Muffler. Standard mufflers shall be properly attached and in constant
operation to reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass,
straight pipe, or similar device on a recreational motor vehicle motor. The
exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
   (B)   Brakes. Brakes shall be adequate to control the movement under any
conditions of operation.
   (C)   Lights. At least one clear lamp shall be attached to the front with
sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least
100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions. The head lamp shall be so that glaring rays are not projected into
the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at
least one red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to
exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear
during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. This
equipment shall be required and shall be in operating condition when the
vehicle is operated between the hours of one- half hour after sunset and one-
half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility.
   (D)   Reflective material. Snowmobiles shall have reflective material at
least 16 inches on each side, forward on the handlebars, so as to reflect a
beam of light at a 90-degree angle.
   (E)   Safety equipment. Helmet and seat belts shall be required as follows:
      (1)   A person less than 18 years of age shall not ride as a passenger or
as an operator of a recreational vehicle regulated herein on public land,
public waters, or on a public road right-of-way unless wearing a safety helmet
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (2)   A person less than 18 of age shall not ride as a passenger or as an
operator of a vehicle regulated herein without wearing a seat belt when a seat
belt has been provided by the manufacturer.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 COMPLIANCE.
   It is unlawful for an owner-operator to permit operation of a recreational
motor vehicle contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20) Penalty, see §
72.99
 § 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Limited parking zones
Cross-reference:
   Snow removal periods and related parking limitations, see §
71.02
SCHEDULE I. LIMITED PARKING ZONES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   FARM EQUIPMENT. Those implements, including farm tractors, which are used as
a part of a farming operation or for farming purposes.
   HOUSE TRAILER. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it by M.S. § 168.011.
   MOBILE HOME. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it by M.S. § 168.011 as it
may be amended from time to time.
   MOTORCYCLE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it by M.S. § 168.011 as it
may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Shall have the meaning ascribed to it by M.S. § 168.011 as it
may be amended from time to time.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle which is designed to be used primarily
on snow or ice and is equipped with skis or runners and a power-driven drum or
track and is steered by wheels, skis, or runners.
   (B)   Restrictive parking. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave any
motor vehicle, house trailer, mobile home, bus, truck, tractor, truck-tractor,
trailer, semi-trailer, farm truck, motorcycle, snowmobile, farm equipment, or
any other type of vehicle or equipment unattended for a period of more than two
hours during the hours of 8:00 a.m. through 4:00 p.m. Monday through Friday in
the following areas:
 
Street         Location
Central Avenue On either side of the street east of the intersection of Central
               Avenue and Main Street for a distance of 400 feet
Central Avenue On either side of the street west of the intersection of Central
               Avenue and Main Street for a distance of 400 feet
Main Street    On either side of the street north of the intersection of Main
               Street and Central Avenue for a distance of 400 feet
Main Street    On either side of the street south of the intersection of Main
               Street and Central Avenue for a distance of 400 feet
 
   (C)   Penalty. Every person convicted of a violation of the provisions of
this schedule shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of $15.
(Ord. 30, passed 7-27-76)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
95.   ASSEMBLIES
      
96.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
97.   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
      
98.   REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS
      
99.   PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dog regulations
   
90.03   Kennel licenses
   
90.04   Commercial kennel
   
90.05   Animal control authority
   
90.06   Interfering with animal control authority
   
90.07   Non-domestic animals
   
90.08   Farm animals
   
90.09   Limit on number of animals
   
90.10   Nuisances
   
90.11   Dangerous animals
   
90.12   Diseased animals
   
90.13   Basic care
   
90.14   Enforcement
   
90.15   Impounding
   
90.16   Adoption by reference
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL.  Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated household
pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs, cats, caged
birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish, non-
poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and other
similar animals.
      (2)   NON-DOMESTIC.  Those animals commonly considered to be naturally
wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not de-scented), raccoon, squirrel, but excluding those members
otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this subpart, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
      (3)   FARM. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or performing
work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall
include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine family (cows,
bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese), swine
(including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch, or stables. This also includes Cervidae, Ratitae
and Llama animal groups as defined by Minnesota state statute. (These animals
include, but are not limited to elks, ostriches, emus, rheas and llamas and
under state law all are considered to be livestock and raised for agricultural
pursuits).
   ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY. A person employed by or under contract with the
city or Wright County who is responsible for animal control enforcement and
investigating complaints, including all on-duty Wright County Deputies while
operating in the city.
   AT LARGE.  Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined. An unattended dog on the property of another
without the consent of such property owner is AT LARGE and not UNDER RESTRAINT
even though it is on a leash.
   CAT.  Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL.  Any place where more than two dogs over six months of
age are kept where the business of raising, selling, boarding, breeding,
showing, or grooming of dogs or other animals is conducted, with the exception
of veterinary clinics.
   CURRENT VACCINATION.  A valid inoculation with any recognized vaccine
approved by the United States Department of Agricultural for the prevention of
rabies.
   DOG.  Both the male and female of the canine species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER.  Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RESIDENTIAL KENNEL.  Any place where more than two dogs over six months of
age are kept on premises which are zoned and occupied for residential purposes,
and where the keeping of such dogs is incidental to the occupancy of the
premises for residential purposes.
   SERVICE ANIMAL.  Any animal individually trained to do work or perform tasks
for the benefit of an individual with a disability, including, but not limited
to, guiding individuals with impaired vision, alerting individuals who are
hearing impaired to intruders or sounds, providing minimal protection or rescue
work, pulling a wheelchair, or fetching dropped items.
   UNDER RESTRAINT.  Any dog that is controlled by a leash not exceeding six
feet in length, or at heel beside a competent person having custody of it and
obedient to their commands, or within a vehicle being driven or parked on a
public street within the property limits of its owner’s premises.
   VACCINATION CERTIFICATE.  A document dated and signed by a licensed
veterinarian stating the brand of vaccine used, manufacturer’s serial number of
the vaccine used and describing the animal, age and breed, owner and
vaccination tag number indicating that the animal has been immunized against
rabies.
   VETERINARY CLINIC.  Any establishment maintained and operated by a Minnesota
licensed veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and
injuries of animals.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.02 DOG REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person who
owns, harbors, or keeps a dog, or the parents or the guardians of any such
person under 18 years of age, to allow such dog to run at large. Dogs on a
leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under the
control and direction of a responsible person so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs Prohibited.”
   (B)   Identification required. All dogs are required to have identification
on them that would assist the city or animal control authority in contacting
the owner. Identification allowed under this chapter include microchips,
veterinarian issued rabies tags, or any tags or collars with contact
information and phone number(s) inscribed on them or affixed thereto.
   (C)   Vaccination. It is unlawful for any person to keep, harbor or maintain
any dog over the age of six months which is susceptible to rabies unless that
dog has a current rabies vaccination, unless otherwise specified by a licensed
veterinarian. Each dog license application must be accompanied by a rabies
vaccination certificate from a licensed veterinarian. The dog must maintain a
current rabies vaccination for the duration of the license.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.03 KENNEL LICENSES.
   No person may operate a residential or commercial kennel in the city without
first obtaining a kennel license as provided in this section. Application for
the license shall be made to the City Clerk and shall expire on December 31, of
each odd year. The City Council may impose conditions upon the granting of any
commercial or residential kennel license.
   (A)   No person may operate a residential kennel in this city without first
obtaining a residential kennel license as provided in this section. Application
for the license shall be made to the City Clerk and must be accompanied by the
license fee set forth by City Council.
   (B)   When an application is made for a residential kennel license a letter
will be mailed to all neighboring property owners. The letter will notify these
property owners of the application and request any feedback regarding the
application. Whether or not all of the occupants of abutting property approve
the application, the city may grant or deny the license. The license may not be
granted unless the city finds that the use of the applicant’s premises as a
residential kennel will not have, or will not be likely to have, any adverse
effect upon neighboring properties or the occupancy thereof, and will not
constitute a nuisance to the neighborhood.
   (C)   Residential or commercial kennel licenses may be revoked by the city
by reason of any violation of this chapter or by reason of violation of any
other provision of this code or any order, law or regulation.
   (D)   Before revoking a residential or commercial kennel license, the
licensee shall be given notice of the meeting at which such revocation will be
considered, and if the licensee is present at such meeting the licensee must be
given an opportunity to be heard. Notice of the meeting shall be given to the
licensee in writing. Written notice shall be mailed to the address of the
licensee as set forth in the licensee’s application for the kennel license.
   (E)   The fee for a residential or commercial kennel license shall be set
forth by City Council from time to time. The residential kennel license fee is
in addition to the usual animal license fees provided in this chapter, if
applicable.
   (F)   Kennels shall be maintained in a clean and healthful condition at all
times and shall be open to inspection by any agent on behalf of the city, at
all reasonable times.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03)
§ 90.04 COMMERCIAL KENNEL.
   A commercial kennel shall only be permitted in the B-1 General Business
District or the A-1 Zoning District with a Conditional Use Permit. A
Conditional Use Permit shall allow a commercial kennel in the B-1 General
Business District as set forth by the regulations in § 155.208. A Conditional
Use Permit shall allow a commercial kennel in the A-1 zoning district as set
forth by the regulations § 155.118(A)(5). The required Conditional Use Permit
is based upon procedures set forth in and regulated by § 155.440. An exception
shall be made to this requirement for any veterinary clinic.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03)
§ 90.05 ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   The City Council is hereby authorized to appoint any designee of the city’s
law enforcement agency or representative/contractor of the city to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. In the agent’s duty of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter, he or she may from time to time, with the consent of the City
Council, designate certain assistants.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.06 INTERFERING WITH ANIMAL CONTROL AUTHORITY.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs or other animals and convey them
to the pound while such person is performing his or her official duties. Nor
shall any unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or
take or attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in
compliance with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or
hinder such officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.07 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
    It shall be illegal for any person or business to own, possess, harbor,
feed, or offer for sale, any non-domestic animal within the city limits. Any
owner of such an animal at the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days
in which to remove the animal from the city after which time the city may
impound the animal as provided for in this chapter. An exception shall be made
to this prohibition for animals specifically trained for and actually providing
assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into
the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinary clinic, or scientific research
lab. This exception includes any licensed show or exhibition not to exceed a
total of 14 days during any 12-month period.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.08 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept as allowed by §§
155.070 and
155.071. An exception shall be made for those animals brought into the city as
part of an operating zoo, veterinary clinic, or scientific research laboratory.
This exception includes any licensed show or exhibition not to exceed a total
of 14 days during any 12-month period.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 1603, passed 3-8-16; Am. Ord. 2103, passed
12-14-21)
§ 90.09 LIMIT ON NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   Except for kennels licensed under this section the following limits on
animals will apply. For the purposes of this section, the term HOUSEHOLD refers
to a single family residence or single  unit of a town home, condominium,
apartment or comparable structure which is rented, leased or used as a single
unit. This section shall not be construed to limit the ability of apartment
managers, landlords, town home associations or other representative of property
owners to impose greater restrictions.
   (A)   Dogs. No household shall keep, maintain or otherwise house more than a
total of two dogs over the age of six months within any household in the city
unless authorized by a residential or commercial kennel license.
      (1)   Any household that has more than two dogs must have a residential
or commercial kennel license issued by the city. The number of dogs permitted
per residential kennel license shall not exceed a total of four dogs. The
number of dogs permitted per commercial kennel license shall be determined by
each conditional use permit.
      (2)   Any current household of the city who owned more than four dogs
prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be permitted to keep those
animals provided that those animals in that household were properly licensed
and registered under a residential or commercial kennel license prior to the
effective date of this chapter. No person affected by this subdivision shall be
permitted to acquire any additional dogs or to replace any dogs in excess of
four.
   (B)   Cats. No household in any residential zoning district shall keep,
maintain, or otherwise house more than a total of four cats over the age of six
months within any household.
   (C)   Congregate limit. No household in any residential zoning district
shall keep, maintain, or otherwise house more than a total of four dogs, cats
or combination thereof within any household unless authorized by a residential
or commercial kennel license.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1401, passed
1-28-14; Am. Ord. 2001, passed 7-14-20)
§ 90.10 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. Such barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises. It shall not be a violation of this section if the dog
was barking, crying or making other noise due to harassment or injury to the
dog or a trespass upon the premises where the dog is located.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any owner to permit the
owner’s dog or other animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property of
another. Any animal which damages any lawn, garden, or other property of
another may be impounded as provided in this chapter or a complaint may be
issued by anyone against the owner of an animal which damages any lawn, garden,
or other property of the complainant.
   (C)   Animal waste. It is unlawful for any person who owns or has custody of
a dog or cat to cause or permit such animal to defecate on any private property
without the consent of the property owner or on any public property, unless
such person immediately removes the excrement and places it in a proper
receptacle. The provisions of this subdivision shall not apply to service dog
or dogs being used for police activity.
   (D)   Animals in heat. Except for controlled breeding purposes, every female
animal in heat shall be kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in
a veterinary hospital or boarding kennel, in such a manner that such female
animal cannot come in contact with other animals.
   (E)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this chapter are hereby declared a
public nuisance and may be abated according to the law.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03)
§ 90.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference of state law and county ordinance. The
provisions of M.S. Chapter 347 (§ § 347.50 through 347.65), as it may be
amended from time to time, and Wright County Ordinance
Chapter 90, as it may be amended from time to time, as they pertain to domestic
animals, are adopted by reference and are as much part of this code as if fully
set forth herein. Any violation of the statutes and Wright County Code,
Chapter 90 herein adopted by reference is a violation of this code. If an
animal is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to rabies and the
animal cannot be impounded after a reasonable effort or cannot be impounded
without serious risk to persons attempting to impound it, or if an animal has
made more than one attack on a person or persons, the animal may be immediately
killed by or under direction of an officer authorized to enforce the provisions
of this section.
   (B)   Conflict of laws. When any provision of this section, Wright County
Code,
Chapter 90, state law applicable to dangerous or potentially dangerous dogs are
in conflict, the provision that imposes the greater restrictions or protections
shall apply.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.12 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of any person, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
chapter.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person or officer. The officer shall have a
licensed veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found to be diseased
in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, the
officer shall cause such animal to be painlessly killed and shall properly
dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed under this
section shall be liable for a time to cover the cost of disposing of the
animal, and a per day maintenance charge and the costs of any veterinarian
examinations. The amount of the fine and charges shall be as set by City
Council.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.13 BASIC CARE.
   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers a kind treatment,
clean and sanitary shelter from the elements and sufficient food and water for
the animal’s comfort. Any person not treating their pet in such a humane manner
will be subject to the penalties provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03)
§ 90.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement authority. The provisions of this chapter shall be
enforced by the Animal Control Authority and those representatives/contractors
designated by the City Council. The Animal Control Authority may issue
citations for violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry. The Animal Control Authority shall have the right to
enter upon any premises at all reasonable times for the purpose of discharging
the duties imposed by this chapter, where there is a reasonable belief that a
violation has been committed.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.15 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any designee of the city’s law enforcement agency or
representative/contractor of the city or citizen may impound any dog found
unlicensed or any dog found running at large and shall give notice of the
impounding to the owner of such dog or other animal, if known. In case the
owner is unknown, the impounding person shall post a notice at the City Hall
that if the dog is not claimed within five regular business days of the posting
of the notice, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of according to State
Statute § 35.71. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it shall be
unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal, including
dogs running at large.
   (B)   Animal bites and quarantine. Whenever any animal shall have bitten a
person or there is a good reason to believe that such animal has bitten a
person, this incident should be reported within 24 hours to the city’s law
enforcement agency and thereafter the owner of such animal shall comply with
the instructions of the department concerning the animal. An animal which bites
a person shall be quarantined for ten days, if ordered by the law enforcing
agent or health authority. During such quarantine, the animal shall be securely
confined and kept from contact with any other animal. The quarantine may be on
the premises of the owner if approved by the enforcing agent. If the enforcing
agent requires other confinement, the owner shall place the animal in a
veterinary hospital at the owner’s expense.
   (C)   Reclaiming. All animals conveyed to the animal control authority shall
be kept, with kind treatment and sufficient food and water for the animal’s
comfort, at least five regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the animal control authority, the
following shall be required, unless otherwise provided for in this code:
      (1)   Payment of a release fee as set in the fee schedule;
      (2)   Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   Proof of a valid certificate of vaccination for rabies is required.
If the owner is unable to provide proof of a current rabies vaccination, the
owner shall agree in writing to vaccinate the dog and file a certificate of
vaccination with the city within a two-week period of the date the dog was
reclaimed from the pound.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of five regular business days
from the time any animal is impounded, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the representative appointed to
enforce this chapter may let any person claim the animal by complying with all
provisions set forth in this section. (M.S. § 35.71 subd. (3), states at the
end of the five-day period, all animals which remain unredeemed must be made
available to any licensed institution which has requested that number of
animals.)
   (E)   Abandonment. It shall be unlawful to abandon any dog or other animal
within the city. Any animal left by the owner, keeper, or caretaker beyond five
working days after being notified, as required by §
90.15(A) by the animal control authority, shall be deemed abandoned and may be
disposed of according to §
90.15(D). The owner of the abandoned animal shall be liable for payment of all
fees and expenses incurred by the city for the care and/or disposal of the
animal.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.16 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   
   Any federal laws or Minnesota State Statutes as they pertain to domestic,
non-domestic, and farm animals, are adopted by reference and are as much a part
of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Any violation of these laws or
statutes adopted herein by reference is a violation of this code.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 2103, passed 12-14-21)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of this chapter is committed
or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be
punishable as such under this section.
   (B)   Misdemeanor. Any owner as defined in §
90.01 violating any provision of Chapter 90 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and subsequent violations by the same owner and animal shall be considered a
gross misdemeanor. Upon conviction, the owner shall be subject to the maximum
fine provided for by Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 0303, passed 4-8-03)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Assessable current services
   
91.02   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
91.15   Public nuisance
   
91.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
91.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.19   Duties of city officers
   
91.20   Abatement
   
91.21   Recovery of cost
Vegetation and Landscaping Maintenance
   
91.35   Purpose
   
91.36   Definitions
   
91.37   Owners responsible for trimming, maintenance, removal and the like
   
91.38   Native plant landscape area requirements
   
91.39   Filing complaint
   
91.40   Notice of violations
   
91.41   Appeals
   
91.42   Abatement by city
   
91.43   Liability
   
91.44   Penalty
Open Burning
   
91.60   Definitions
   
91.61   Prohibited materials
   
91.62   Permit required for open burning
   
91.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
91.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
91.65   Permit process for open burning
   
91.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
91.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
91.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
91.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
Exterior Solid Fuel-Fired Devices
   
91.70   Definitions
   
91.71   Permit required
   
91.72   Other requirements
   
91.73   Penalty
Rules and Laws
   
91.80   Adopted by reference
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. Shall mean one or more of the following: snow, ice, or
rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots
adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of
public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous
building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26 as they may amended from
time to time; installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling,
street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets;
repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of
unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property;
and the operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or other
designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under Chapter
52 of this code, the City Clerk shall keep a record of the total cost of the
installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk shall report the facts to the
City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the work done by
contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk, or other designated official, shall prepare a bill
and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such damage. Any
person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages
any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall
be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk
shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service and
charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which they
are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under the authority
of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide;
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the costs of
abatement done under this section for all work done for which assessments are
to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels
involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk
shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate
lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The City
Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property
involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101 as it may be
amended from time to time and other pertinent statutes for certification to the
County Auditor and collection the following year along with the current taxes.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Trees and shrubs; tree preservation, see
Chapter 94
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or §§
91.16,
91.17 or
91.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
   (L)   The use of common drinking cups, or roller towels so designed that the
same portion of the towel is repeatedly used by many people.
   (M)   To sell or offer for sale as unadulterated or undiluted an adulterated
or diluted product for the use or consumption of man or beast.
   (N)   To sell or offer for sale any article whatsoever which has become
spoiled, tainted, decayed, or for any cause unfit to be used for the purpose
for which it was alleged to have been intended.
   (O)   To offer or expose for sale at retail for human food at any public
market, store, shop, or house in or about any street or any public place any
domestic or wild fowls or any slaughtered rabbits, squirrels or other small
animals, wild or tame, unless the entrails, crops, and other offensive parts
are properly drawn and removed.
   (P)   To slaughter fresh meat, fish, fowl, or game for human food, and while
transporting said food from place to place, fail to protect the same from dust,
flies, vermin, or any other substance or circumstances which may injuriously
affect said product.
   (Q)   To directly or indirectly or otherwise scatter, distribute, or give
away samples of any medicine, drugs, or medical compounds, salves, or liniments
of any kind, unless the same is delivered into the hands of an adult person, or
mailed to such adult persons through the regular mail service.
   (R)   Any rubbish, swill, offal, metal cans, or garbage (except in otherwise
authorized containers), ashes, litter, debris, yard cleanings, dead animals, or
other foul or unhealthy materials or other dangerous condition.
   (S)   Throwing or depositing any refuse in any stream or other body of
water.
   (T)   To permit or suffer to be or remain offensive, hurtful, dangerous,
unhealthy, or uncomfortable to any person or neighborhood any sewer, private
drain, sink, pool, cesspool, outhouse, privy vault, putrid or unsound flesh,
meat, fish, skin, carcass, garbage, stagnant water, vegetable matter, weeds,
rodents, vermin, or any other unwholesome or offensive substance, liquid, or
other thing in or upon premises or land occupied by, or under the control of,
the party allowing such a condition.
   (U)   Any excess construction materials, construction material shipping
cartons, construction material packaging, and used materials which are present
at the construction site and which are not secured with a cover or lid in a
fully enclosed container or structure. Construction materials shall mean all
materials of any type which are used in the construction of a house, building,
or other structure, including, but not limited to lumber, plastics, metal,
asphalt and fiberglass shingles, fiberglass, vinyl, glass, ceramic, and other
composite building materials.
   (V)   The use or burning of any garbage, grasses, leaves, oils, rubber,
plastics, tires, railroad ties, construction debris, and painted or chemically
treated materials, such as lumber, composite shingles, tar paper, insulation
composition board, sheetrock, wiring, paint and hazardous and industrial solid
waste, in an exterior solid fuel-fired device.
(Ord. 76, passed 6-11-91; Am. Ord. 0404, passed 4-13-04; Am. Ord. 0703, passed
7-10-07) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and prizefighting, and all apparatus used in those
occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place;
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
   (F)   Public use of profane or obscene language; acts of persons tending to
create a disturbance of the public peace and quiet of the community; and the
use of loud, boisterous, or abusive language in public or which disturbs the
tranquility of a neighborhood, or any acts that constitute disorderly conduct.
   (G)   The looking into or peeking through doors, windows, or openings of
private homes by method of stealth and without proper authority and by
surreptitious methods, or what is commonly known as “window peeping.”
(Ord. 76, passed 6-11-91) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, shrubs, billboards or other obstructions which
adversely affect the public safety, whether such object shall be on public or
private property;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may
be amended from time to time which are hereby incorporated by reference into
this code.
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, tape player, disc player,
loud speaker, paging system, machine or other device for producing or
reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to
unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
   (G)   The participation in a party or gathering of people giving rise to
noise which disturbs the peace, quiet or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or other property.
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M) Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of any of the following items:
      (1)   Garbage, refuse, or similar materials on or within a public right-
of-way, public property, streets, or on private property; or
      (2)   Lawn clippings, leaves, snow, yard waste, or similar materials on
or within a public right-of-way, public property, streets, or adjacent private
property;
   (U)   Accumulations or storage in the open of any of the following items or
any parts or accessories thereto anywhere within the city limits:
      (1)   Inoperable machinery;
      (2)   Household appliances;
      (3)   Household furnishings;
      (4)   Motor vehicles which are not currently licensed or generally not
being driven, or are being used for parts;
      (5)   Items which are not generally or normally used on the particular
premises;
      (6)   Firewood which is not neatly stacked in a compact manner;
      (7)   Any accumulation of manure, rubbish, garbage, bottles, papers,
cans, or junk of any nature or description;
      (8)   Any other materials or items of any kind or nature which tend to
harbor rats, mice, snakes, or vermin or otherwise are a potential fire, health,
or safety hazard from such accumulations;
      (9)   Accumulations of any items that tend to cause an unsightly
appearance of the premises and which cause discomfort for any other members of
the public who may be using their own or public property;
      (10)   Failure to screen or fence trash/garbage, recycling or yard waste
containers, or dumpsters such that said containers or dumpsters are not visible
from any public street or sidewalk, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Residential garbage and recycling containers, and yard waste
located curbside the evening before or during garbage or yard waste pick-up
day.

         (b)   Dumpsters located upon a property on a temporary basis during
the construction or alteration of any structure thereon.
   (V)   To make or keep nitroglycerin, other explosives or combustible
material, or more than eight pounds of gunpowder in the city or carried through
the streets without first obtaining a permit from the City Council.
   (W)   To sell or cause to be sold, place or caused to be placed, any
gasoline or benzine or other highly flammable liquids in quantities of more
than one pint and less than six gallons in any receptacle except one of a
bright red color and tagged and labeled in large plain letters with the name of
the contents therein.
   (X)   All buildings, walls, and other structures which have been damaged by
fire, decay, or otherwise to an extent exceeding one-half their original value,
and which are so situated as to endanger the safety of the public.
   (Y)   All use or display of fireworks except as provided by city ordinance
or code provision.
   (Z)   All buildings and all alterations to buildings made or erected in
violation of the Uniform Fire Code.
   (AA)   All buildings and alterations to buildings made in violation of the
state building code.
   (AB)   Any discarded or unused icebox, refrigerator, or other similar device
or object which is left outside or in such condition so as to be accessible to
any child being or coming upon the premises where the same is located.
   (AC)   Doing by means of a telephone, or permitting any telephone under
one’s control to be used for, any of the following:
      (1)   Making any comment, request, suggestion, or proposal which is
obscene, lewd, lascivious, filthy, or indecent;
      (2)   Making a telephone call, whether or not conversation ensues,
without disclosing one’s identity and with the intent to annoy, abuse,
threaten, or harass any person at the called number;
      (3)   Making or causing the telephone of another to repeatedly or
continuously ring with the intent to harass any person at the called number;
      (4)   Making or causing to be made a telephone call with the intent as a
hoax to threaten to bomb, or to threaten that a bomb has been placed in, a
building or any location other than a building where a bomb, if it were so
placed, might cause injury or death to a person or damage to property.
   (AD)   The allowing of, or failure to prevent, soil, gravel, and other
sediment to erode and become deposited upon any public street.
(Ord. 76, passed 6-11-91)
   (AE)    Construction and maintenance activities being performed by a
contractor before 7:00 a.m. or after 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, before
8:00 a.m. or after 6:00 p.m. on Saturday, or any time on Sunday; and
construction and maintenance activities being performed by a resident on the
residents own property before 7:00 a.m. or after sunset as determined by the
National Weather Service. Construction activities include without limitation,
building construction, grading, excavation and other site work, mowing,
trimming or other landscaping, and other similar noise producing activities,
EXCEPT: construction and maintenance activities performed by city public works
personnel in their official capacity, such as street and other public works
construction, utility repairs, flood prevention, snow removal and other similar
construction activities OR snow removal on private property.
(Ord. 129, passed 8-8-00; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 5-23-17)
   (AF)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to
the person or property of anyone. All acts, omissions, occupations, and uses of
property which are deemed by the State Board of Health to be a menace to or
injurious to the health of the inhabitants of the city or any number thereof.
   (AG)   Any fire or open flame on a balcony of any apartment, condominium or
other similar structure or within ten feet of such structure in a portable
device used for heating, lighting or food preparation; or store such a device
on or in a balcony of any such aforementioned structure, EXCEPT: Approved
electric or gas fired barbeque grills that are permanently mounted and wired,
or plumbed to the structure's gas supply or electrical system and that maintain
a minimum clearance of 18 inches on all sides. Approved appliances of lesser
clearances may be installed based on the manufacture's recommendation for use
on balconies and patios.
(Ord. 0204, passed 8-13-02; Am. Ord. 0305, passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 0605, passed
7-25-06; Am. Ord. 0703, passed 7-10-07; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord.
1703, passed 5-23-17; Am. Ord. 1704, passed 10-24-17; Am. Ord. 1902, passed 5-
14-19; Am. Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.19 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   The Police Department or Sheriff, if the city has at the time no Police
Department, shall enforce the provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace
officer shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances.
§ 91.20 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer on the owner of record or occupant of the premises either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer determines that a public nuisance
is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the officer shall
notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the premises of such fact
and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation
shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within
which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of violation is not complied
with within the time specified, the officer shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists
or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of
the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The
officer shall notify in writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the
nature of the nuisance and of the city’s intention to seek summary enforcement
and the time and place of the City Council meeting to consider the question of
summary enforcement. The City Council shall determine whether or not the
condition identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance,
whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A)
of this section, and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or
abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.21 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall, on or before
September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid
charges along with all other the charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread
the charges against the property under that statute and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
VEGETATION AND LANDSCAPING MAINTENANCE
§ 91.35 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to prohibit the uncontrolled growth of
vegetation, while permitting the planting and maintenance of landscaping or
garden treatments that add diversity and richness to the quality of life. There
are reasonable expectations regarding the maintenance of vegetation because
vegetation that is not maintained may threaten public health, safety, and
order, and may decrease adjacent property values. It is also in the public’s
interest to encourage diverse landscaping and garden treatments, particularly
those that restore native vegetation, which requires less moisture and place a
lower demand on the public’s water resources.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
§ 91.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice of the ordinance violation served on the
property by a designated city official.
      GARDENS. Cultivated areas dedicated to growing vegetables, fruits,
flowers, ornamental grasses, shrubs, and similar plants, planted and maintained
in well-defined borders.
      NATIVE PLANTS. Grasses, including meadow vegetation, sedges (solid,
triangular- stemmed plants resembling grasses), forbs (flowering broadleaf
plants), trees, and shrubs, that are plant species native to or naturalized to
the State of Minnesota, excluding prohibited exotic species defined by M.S. Ch.
84D. Native plants do not include weeds.
      NATIVE PLANT LANDSCAPE AREAS. Areas where native plants are being or have
been planted in a well-defined and maintained border. Native plant landscape
areas do not include gardens.
      NATURAL AREAS. Undeveloped landscapes not changed, altered, moved,
cultivated or planted by human or mechanical means, and which do not contain
turfgrass.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      RAIN GARDENS. Shallow landscape features planted with moisture-loving
wildflowers, grasses, shrubs and trees, used to manage storm water run-off by
allowing water to soak into the ground.
      TURFGRASS. Commercially available cultured grass varieties that are grown
to create turf, including bluegrass, fescue, and ryegrass blends, commonly used
in regularly cut lawn areas.
      WEEDS. Includes but is not limited to the following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds as defined and designated pursuant to the
“Minnesota Noxious Weed Law,” M.S. §§ 18.76-18.91, as amended from time to
time.
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years.
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties.
         (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
garden plants or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12
inches.
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants.
(Ord. 0406, passed 7-13-04; Am. Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
§ 91.37 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, MAINTENANCE, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of eight inches in height on any property with a structure, and 12
inches on all other properties. This section shall not apply to the following
areas:
   (A)   Gardens, rain gardens and native plant landscape areas as allowed in §
91.38 of this subchapter;
   (B)   City park lands and natural areas owned by the city and rights-of-way
owned and maintained by the county and state;
   (C)   Natural wooded areas;
   (D)   Ponding areas and wetlands;
      (1)   A strip of vegetation may be established between the normal water
level and the high-water level of not more than 20 feet. This strip of
vegetation shall be allowed to grow to any height; however, any noxious weeds
must be controlled and eradicated;
   (E)   Officially-designated floodplains;
   (F)   Areas where mowing is prohibited by easement or law; or
   (G)   Agricultural areas, as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 0405, passed 5-11-04; Am. Ord. 0406, passed 7-13-04; Am. Ord. 0805,
passed 6-24-08; Am. Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.38 NATIVE PLANT LANDSCAPE AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Native plant landscape areas shall meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Native plant landscape areas may include plants and grasses eight
inches or more in height and which have gone to seed, but may not include any
weeds or noxious weeds and must be maintained so as to not include unintended
vegetation;
   (B)   Native plant landscape areas shall not include any plantings, which
due to location and manner of growth constitute a hazard to the public or may
cause injury or damage to persons or property when such growth is in violation
of other applicable sections of city code;
   (C)   Native plant landscape areas shall not occupy more than 50% of the
pervious surface area of the parcel, excluding natural wooded areas, wetlands,
water bodies, rain gardens and conservation easements;
   (D)   Native plant landscape area is setback a minimum of 15 feet from the
front property line. On corner lots both street sides shall be deemed a front
yard;
   (E)   A buffer strip not less than five feet from side and rear property
lines must be maintained when a native plant landscape area covers more than
25% of the landscaped area of the entire yard. A buffer strip is not, however,
required if:
      (1)   A fully opaque fence at least four feet in height is installed
along the lot line adjoining the managed natural landscape area;
      (2)   The adjacent property is not being used for residential purposes;
or
      (3)   The adjacent residential property also contains a managed natural
landscape area covering more than 25% of the landscaped area of the entire
yard.
   (F)   Native plant landscape areas shall not include turf-grass lawns left
unattended for the purpose of returning to a natural state; and
   (G)   The area is maintained according to current industry standards for the
kind of vegetation being grown, to include seasonal cutting as appropriate.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
§ 91.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk. If the city makes the complaint, an employee,
officer or Council Member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects
as set out above.
§ 91.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   First notice. When the owner and/or occupant permits a nuisance to
exist in violation of §
91.38, the Weed Inspector, or his or her assistants will forward written
notification in the form of a “Destruction Order” to the owner, occupant or
agent of the owner of the lot or parcel of land ordering the person to have the
weeds or grass cut and removed or otherwise eradicated or removed within seven
days after the receipt of the notice which will also state in the event of
noncompliance, removal will be done by the city at the owner’s expense. The
notice shall be served in writing by certified mail with a return receipt. When
no owner, occupant or agent of the owner can be found, notice shall be sent by
certified mail with a return receipt to the person who is listed on the records
of the County Auditor or County Treasurer as the owner, and a copy of the
notice will be posted on the property. Service will be complete with the
certified mailing and posting.
   (B)   Subsequent notice. Any subsequent violation of §
91.38 on the same property in the same calendar year shall not be subject to
the seven day notification period, but the property will be posted with a
“Destruction Order” to the owner, occupant or agent of the owner of the lot or
parcel of land ordering the person to have the weeds or grass cut and removed
or otherwise eradicated within 48 hours of such posting. It is the current
owner’s responsibility to forward all nuisance violations to any future owners.
(Ord. 0406, passed 7-13-04; Am. Ord. 0804, passed 5-27-08)
§ 91.41 APPEALS.
   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections with
the city within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and holidays, if the
property owner contests the finding of the city. It is the property owner's
responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question is shrubs, trees,
cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation of this subchapter,
and should not be subject to destruction under the subchapter.
(Ord. 0406, passed 7-13-04)
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven days, or any subsequent “Destruction Order”
within 48 hours and has not filed a notice of an intent to appeal, the city may
employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
(Ord. 0406, passed 7-13-04; Am. Ord. 0804, passed 5-27-08)
§ 91.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 91.44 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2004, passed 11-10-20)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a “recreational fire” as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as “open burning.”
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a
“recreation fire site” as defined herein. Recreational fire sites shall not be
located closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as starter
fuels and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked, or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 91.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
91.60.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means.
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction.
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical.
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives.
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire Training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established by ordinance, as it may be amended from time
to time.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions, and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 91.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 91.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 91.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
EXTERIOR SOLID FUEL-FIRED DEVICES
§ 91.70 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. An external device designed for
external solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior
of a building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, fireplaces, solid fuel-
fired cooking stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boilers which burn solid
fuel. Solid fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired
fireplace logs.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. Maintaining or permitting a condition which unreasonable
annoys, injures or endangers the health, morals, decency, safety, or public
peace so that such activities affect the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property.
   STACKS OR CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a building and
enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a solid fuel-
fired heating device, including the part of such a vertical structure extending
above a roof.
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07)
§ 91.71 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A mechanical permit issued in compliance with the requirements of Section
106 of the International Mechanical Code shall be required to install any
external solid fuel-fired heating device.
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07) Penalty, see §
91.73
§ 91.72 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   Any exterior solid fuel-fired heating device installed after January 1,
2007, must meet the following requirements:
   (A)   Exterior solid fuel-fired heating devices shall be permitted only in
the A-1 and A-2 Zoning Districts.
   (B)   External solid fuel-fired heating devices shall be located at least 75
feet from any property line and shall only be located in the rear yard or in
the side yard in the case of a corner lot.
   (C)   All stacks or chimneys must be constructed:
      (1)   To withstand high winds or other related elements;
      (2)   According to the specifications of the manufacturer of the external
solid fuel-fired heating device; and
      (3)   Of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-inch flue.
   (D)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices installed or purchased
within the city are required to meet the emission standards currently required
(or as may be amended from time to time) by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) and Underwriters Laboratories (UL) listing.
   (E)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities, created by the use of an external solid fuel-fired heating device
or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating device to burn solid fuels,
other than those solid fuels for which the external solid fuel-fired heating
device was designed, are declared a public nuisance.
   (F)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices installed within the
city shall be listed and labeled by a nationally recognized testing laboratory
and installed according to the manufacturer’s recommendations.
   (G)   The following materials shall not be used or burned in external solid
fuel-fired heating devices: garbage, grasses, leaves, oils, rubber, plastics,
tires, railroad ties, construction debris, and painted or chemically treated
materials such as treated lumber, composite shingles, tar paper, insulation
composition board, sheetrock, wiring, paint and hazardous and industrial solid
waste.
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07; Am. Ord. 1401, passed 1-28-14; Am. Ord. 1905, passed
12-10-19) Penalty, see §
91.73
§ 91.73 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this subchapter is a misdemeanor. Each day a violation
occurs is a separate offense.
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07)
RULES AND LAWS
§ 91.80 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 0701, passed 1-9-07)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Park and recreational area regulations
   
92.04   Exclusive use
   
92.05   Permits
 
   
92.98   Violations; rewards
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Bow and arrow use prohibited, see §
130.04
   Firearms prohibited, see §
130.03
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate certain activities within the
city parks in order to promote the public safety and convenience.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-11-82)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person or organization seeking a permit to use or conduct an
activity in a park or recreational area.
   CITY. City of St. Michael.
   DIRECTOR. Community Development Director or his/her designee.
   FIREARM. Includes handguns, rifles, shotguns, pellet guns, BB guns, and any
other device designed to eject a projectile from a barrel.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, LICENSED. Any self-propelled motor vehicle licensed by the
state or some other state for use on public streets.
   MOTOR VEHICLE, UNLICENSED. Any self-propelled vehicle not registered or
licensed for use on public roads by this state or some other state, including,
but not limited to, a two- or three-wheel motorcycle, a snowmobile (whether
licensed or not), a go-cart, and an all terrain vehicle, whether two-, three-
or four-wheeled.
   PARK or PUBLIC PARK. All outdoor recreation areas within the city including
roadways contained therein either owned or operated by the city. Such areas
shall include, but shall not be limited to, grounds, ball fields, open spaces,
trails, skating rinks, and all open areas around the city's sewer lagoons.
   PERMIT. Any written license issued by or under the authority of the Director
or City Council permitting a use, event, or activity in the park system.
   RECREATIONAL AREA. Any area, including parks, bathing beaches, parking lots,
roadways and other lands open to the public for recreational purposes of any
type, owned, leased, maintained, or managed by the City of St. Michael.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-11-82; Am. Ord. 1703, passed 5-23-17)
§ 92.03 PARK AND RECREATIONAL AREA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Alcoholic beverages. No person shall bring into any park nor possess,
display, consume or use intoxicating liquor in any park, except as allowed by
city policy adopted from time to time.
   (B)   Camping. No person shall set up tents, shacks or any other temporary
shelter, nor shall any person leave in any park after closing hours any movable
structure without written permission from the city.
   (C)   Equipment. No person shall willfully mark, deface, disfigure, injure,
tamper with, displace or remove any building, bridge, table, bench, waste
receptacle, fireplace, railing, paving or paved material, waterline or other
public utility or part or appurtenance thereof, sign, notice or placard
(whether temporary or permanent), monument, stake, post or other boundary
marker, or other structure, equipment, park property or park appurtenances
whatsoever, either real or personal.
   (D)   Fires. Fires are prohibited in city parks except in a metal grill
provided and installed by the city. No person shall leave before the fire has
been completely extinguished, and all garbage, trash, and refuse have been
placed in the receptacles provided. Where no receptacles have been provided,
all garbage, trash and refuse shall be carried away from the park area and
shall be properly disposed of elsewhere.
   (E)   Firearms and fireworks. Except as otherwise permitted by law in this
code, no person shall within the limits of any park or parkway, fire or
discharge any cannon, fowling piece, pistol, revolver, paintball gun, airsoft
gun, or firearm of whatever description or fire, explode or set off any
firecracker, or any other thing containing powder or other combustible or
explosive material.
   (F)   Golfing. No person shall play the game of golf or engage in putting,
practice swinging of a golf club or the striking of any golf balls in any city
park.
   (G)   Hours. All public parks owned and operated by the city shall be open
for public use between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. daily. It shall be
unlawful for any person to be present in a city park for any purpose between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (H)   Litter. No person shall litter in any city park, pond or water course
within or draining into a city park with any form of trash or waste material.
Such trash or waste material shall be deposited in the proper receptacles when
provided; where receptacles are not provided, all trash or waste material shall
be carried away from the area by the person responsible for its presence.
   (I)   Natural resources. No person shall willfully and without authority
cut, pluck, remove, or otherwise injure any flowers, shrubs or trees growing in
or around any public park, or on other public lands.
   (J)   Motor vehicles. Licensed motor vehicles may be driven and operated by
a duly licensed person within city parks, but only upon entrance and exit
roadways and in duly designated parking areas. Driving or operating unlicensed
motor vehicles in any portion of a city park or public trail is prohibited,
except by authorized city personnel. No licensed or unlicensed motor vehicle
may exceed the speed of 15 miles per hour on any roadway or parking area within
a city park and shall otherwise be driven and operated in a safe and careful
manner.
   (K)   Park closing. The city may close any public park at any time for such
period as the city deems necessary, in order to protect, restore or maintain
order, terminate or prevent breaches of the peace and order. No person having
been informed of such an order closing any such area shall remain in the area
longer than is necessary to leave the closed area.
   (L)   Parking. No motor vehicle, trailer or equipment may be left standing
or parked within a city park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. Any
such vehicle, trailer or equipment found in a city park between these hours may
be towed and impounded by any duly authorized city police officer or county
sheriffs deputy. It shall be unlawful for any person to park or store any
vehicle, trailer or equipment on park property unless such person is utilizing
the park property while the person's vehicle is located upon the park property.
   (M)   Pets. Pets are allowed in city parks provided they are under restraint
and their waste is disposed of properly. No pets other than service animals are
permitted on athletic fields.
   (N)   Powered model aircraft. Powered model aircraft may only be flown in
areas which will not interfere with sport games or any other park activities.
   (O)   Public sales. No person within any park or public property, shall
expose, offer for sale, rent, or hire any article or thing unless such person
shall have obtained prior written approval to do so from the City
Administrator. No person shall announce, advertise, or call the public
attention to any article or service for sale or hire in any way.
   (P)   Swimming. Persons who swim in a city park that has a pond, river or
stream shall do so at their own risk as lifeguards are not provided in any city
park.
(Ord. 1703, passed 5-23-17; Am. Ord. 1802, passed 6-12-18)
§ 92.04 EXCLUSIVE USE.
   No person, firm, corporation, or group shall make any use of any
recreational area to the exclusion of the general public, or charge admission
to any such recreational area for any event or use, without a permit as found
in §
92.05.
(Ord. 1703, passed 5-23-17)
§ 92.05 PERMITS.
   Any person, firm, corporation or group of persons desiring the exclusive use
of all or a portion of specific areas, buildings or facilities within a city
park or recreational area for conducting special events of a cultural,
educational, political, religious or recreational nature which are not
activities or events sponsored or held under the direction of the city, shall
first obtain a permit issued by the city authorizing such exclusive use. Such
permits shall be obtained by application in accordance with the following
procedure:
   (A)   Application. A person seeking issuance of such permit shall submit a
written application on a form supplied by the city.
   (B)   Issuance. Standards for issuance of an exclusive use permit shall
include, without limitation, the following, as determined by the Director:
      (1)   That the proposed activity or use of the park or recreational area
will not unreasonably interfere with or detract from the general public's
enjoyment of the park or recreational area.
      (2)   That the proposed activity and use will not unreasonably interfere
with or detract from the promotion of public health, welfare, safety and
recreation.
      (3)   That the proposed activity or uses that are reasonably anticipated
will not include violence, crime or disorderly conduct.
      (4)   That the proposed activity will not entail extraordinary or
burdensome expense or police operation by the city.
      (5)   That the facilities desired have not been reserved for other use on
the date and hour requested in the application and are available for the
requested use and activity.
      (6)   That the proposed activity and use are suitable for the class of
the park or recreational area.
   (C)   Appeal. Upon receipt of a complete application, the Director shall
inform the applicant in writing of the decision to grant or deny a permit; in
the event of a denial, the notification shall include the reason for the
denial. The applicant shall have the right to appeal the Director's decision to
the City Council by serving written notice thereof on the City Clerk within
five working days of the denial of the requested permit.
   (D)   Insurance. Prior to issuance of a permit, the applicant shall provide
the city with proof of insurance in the amount and as described on the
application form.
   (E)   Revocation. The Director or the City Council is authorized to revoke a
permit immediately upon a finding of a violation of any park or recreational
area rule, ordinance or permit condition.
   (F)   Liability. The applicant shall be liable for any loss, damage or
injury sustained by virtue of the activity conducted.
   (G)   Portable toilets. For gatherings of more than 100 persons or where
beer is sold or distributed in connection with the activity, the Director, as a
condition of the issuance of any permit, may require the applicant to supply
such self-contained portable toilet facilities as the Director deems
appropriate.
(Ord. 1703, passed 5-23-17)
§ 92.98 VIOLATIONS; REWARDS.
   The City Council has the authority to offer and pay a reward for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of any person violating any provision of
this chapter.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-11-82)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 48, passed 5-11-82)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Sidewalks and curbs
   
93.02   Culverts
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
93.20   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.21   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
93.22   Permit requirement
   
93.23   Permit applications
   
93.24   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.25   Permit fees
   
93.26   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.27   Supplementary applications
   
93.28   Denial of permit
   
93.29   Installation requirements
   
93.30   Inspection
   
93.31   Work done without a permit
   
93.32   Supplementary notification
   
93.33   Revocation of permits
   
93.34   Mapping data; information required
   
93.35   Location of facilities
   
93.36   Damage to other facilities
   
93.37   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.38   Indemnification and liability
   
93.39   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
93.40   Appeal
   
93.41   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see
§ 91.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SIDEWALKS AND CURBS.
   All sidewalks and curbs hereinafter constructed, altered, or repaired shall
be of a uniform width and shall be built on the grade now or hereafter
established, and the outer edge shall be as nearly as possible on a straight
line, and shall conform to specifications approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 4, passed 3-24-50) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 93.02 CULVERTS.
   (A)   Required installation. Wherever any driveway, service way, private
road, or access is established, made, improved, or installed which intersects,
crosses, or joins upon any public road maintained by the city, and by virtue of
such intersection, crossing, or joining the passage or flow of water adjacent
to the public road is or would be dammed, slowed, altered, or in any way
interfered with, a culvert shall be installed in conjunction with and
coordinate with the construction, establishment, improvement, or installation
of any such driveway, service way, private road, or access. All such culverts
shall be installed in conformance with the specifications established by this
section.
   (B)   Minimum requirements.
      (1)   Permitted materials. All culverts shall:
         (a)   Be constructed of new, corrugated galvanized steel pipe of at
least 16-gauge thickness, unless the City Engineer approves in writing the use
and specifications of plastic pipe; and
          (b)   Have a diameter sufficient to allow unrestricted flow or
drainage of all surface waters. The minimum diameter for such pipe shall be 15
inches and the maximum length shall be 32 feet, unless written authorization to
vary is received from the City Engineer.
      (2)   Flared ends. All culverts shall have flared ends.
      (3)   4 to 1 slope. A 4 to 1 slope shall be maintained around all
culverts installed pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Permit required. Prior to the installation of any culvert pursuant to
this section, a permit for the installation shall be obtained from the city.
The cost for a permit shall be as set by the Council of the city from time to
time. The City Building Official shall inspect the installation of all such
culverts to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Criminal. Any person violating any provision of this section shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable according to law.
      (2)   Civil. In addition to any other penalty herein provided, the city
shall have the right to seek the order of any court of competent jurisdiction
ordering the installation of any culvert required by the provisions of this
chapter. In addition, the city shall have the right to recover actual monetary
damages incurred as the proximate result of any violation of this section, or
the enforcement by the city of this section, including the city’s costs and
disbursements and reasonable attorney fees.
(Ord. 105, passed 6-10-97) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 93.20 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 93.21 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100 subps. 1 through 23, as
it may be amended from time to time, are the definitions of the terms used in
the following provisions of this subchapter.
§ 93.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding division (B) of this
section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The
delay penalty shall be established from time to time by ordinance, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 93.23 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b) Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e) Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by the
Director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by ordinance, as that ordinance may be
amended from time to time, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by ordinance, as
that ordinance may be amended from time to time, if applicable.
§ 93.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
§ 93.25 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established by ordinance, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by ordinance, as that ordinance may be amended from time to
time, in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee by ordinance , as that ordinance may be amended from time to time,
and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by ordinance, as may be
amended from time to time, that were paid for a permit that the Director has
revoked for a breach as stated in § 93.33 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.100, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 93.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee’s improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rule part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Director shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent
of the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application
or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Director, shall correct all restoration
work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Director. The
work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice
from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because
of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right- of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by ordinance, as may be amended from time to time. However, the
right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee
shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 93.27 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of- way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 93.28 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 93.29 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.30 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rule part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to § 93.33.
§ 93.31 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.  
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 93.32 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the
Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 93.33 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.30.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.  Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 93.34 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 93.35 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.  To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Director
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Director
shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential
users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of
the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
§ 93.36 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall
be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way
which it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant
caused during the city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 93.37 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.38 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rule 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 93.39 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Director.
§ 93.40 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely written
request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 93.41 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittees or registrants rights are subject to the regulatory and police
powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 94: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Adoption of state regulations
   
94.02   Bark-bearing elm wood
Tree Preservation Regulations
   
94.15   Purpose, scope and intent
   
94.16   Definitions
   
94.17   Tree preservation requirements
   
94.18   Requirements for tree preservation plans
   
94.19   Requirements for reforestation plans
   
94.20   Tree protection measures
   
94.21   Incentives for tree preservation
   
94.22   Implementation
Cross-reference:
   Tree diseases, see
§ 91.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 ADOPTION OF STATE REGULATIONS.
   The rules of the Minnesota Department of Agriculture for the Shade Tree
Disease Control Program, Minnesota Rules parts 1505.0010 through 1505.0600, are
hereby adopted by reference as an ordinance of the city and are hereby
incorporated in and made a part of this chapter as completely as if set out
herein in full except insofar as the same may be inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 44, passed 6-26-79)
§ 94.02 BARK-BEARING ELM WOOD.
   Any bark-bearing elm wood may be stockpiled within the city limits during
the period of September 15 through April 1. Any such wood not utilized by April
1 must then be removed and disposed of as provided by law.
(Ord. 44, passed 6-26-79) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
TREE PRESERVATION REGULATIONS
§ 94.15 PURPOSE, SCOPE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the policy of the City of St. Michael to recognize and
protect the integrity of the natural environment of the community through the
preservation, protection, and planting of trees. The City Council has found it
necessary and desirable to establish requirements for the preservation of trees
on new development sites. The objectives of this subchapter shall include, but
are not limited to:
      (1)   The perpetuation of the existing tree canopy through root
protection by eliminating or reducing compaction, filling or excavation;
      (2)   Prevention of soil erosion and sedimentation;
      (3)   Reduced storm water runoff;
      (4)   Improved air quality;
      (5)   Reduced noise pollution;
      (6)   Energy conservation through natural insulation and shading;
      (7)   Control of the urban heat island effect;
      (8)   Increased property values;
      (9)   Protection of privacy by establishing and maintaining buffers
between conflicting land uses;
      (10)   Providing habitat for wildlife;
      (11)   Conservation of St. Michael’s physical and aesthetic “Big Woods”
environment; and
      (12)    To provide an ecosystem approach to planning and development.
   (B)   Scope. This subchapter shall apply to the following in the City of St.
Michael:
      (1)   All sites for which application for a subdivision review is being
made.
      (2)   All sites for which application for a site plan review is being
made.
      (3)   Forested areas may not be removed at a rate greater than one acre
in size per landowner per year.
   (C)   Intent. It is the intent of this subchapter to:
      (1)   Preserve a continuous tree canopy throughout the site and extending
into adjoining properties whenever possible. (Continuous green/wildlife
corridors);
      (2)   Preserve specimen trees;
      (3)   Preserve mix of tree ages, sizes, and species;
      (4)   Preserve the existing under-story and forest floor vegetation;
      (5)   Preserve both front and backyard trees in residential developments
with custom lot development and site specific roadway alignments;
      (6)   Encourage building types, sizes and footprints appropriate to site
specific conditions;
      (7)   Support and augment the Comprehensive Park, Trails and Open Space.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE. The circular area under the tree as determined by one
foot of radius for each one inch of diameter.
   DISTURBANCE ZONE. Any area which will be physically altered from its natural
state. This will include all areas of grading, utility installation, building
pads, driveways, and parking areas.
   PROTECTED, PRESERVED, OR UNDISTURBED TREE. Any tree with no less than 60% of
the critical root zone left undisturbed or which has been protected during the
construction process by the tree protection methods described herein.
   SIGNIFICANT TREES. Trees which are healthy and measure a minimum of eight
inches in diameter at a distance of 54 inches above ground.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.17 TREE PRESERVATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Unnecessary removal or disturbance of all trees of significant size and
health when locating and building roads, utilities, structures, and the like
shall be avoided. A certain amount of tree removal is an inevitable consequence
of the urban development process. However, with proper management and the use
of innovative design techniques, loss or damage to significant trees can be
minimized.
   (A)   Removal threshold. Significant tree removal or disturbance beyond a
40% removal threshold shall require reforestation. Calculation of the removal
threshold shall be based on continuous forest cover of 2,500 square feet or
more as determined by the Zoning Administrator using available resources (i.e.
aerial photo, site visit).
   (B)   Reforestation requirements. For development that exceeds the
significant tree removal threshold, the developer will be required to reforest
appropriate areas within the subdivision or site, on a one for one diameter-
inch of excess removal. If it is demonstrated to be impractical to plant all
reforestation trees on the site, the City Council, at its discretion, may
select alternate sites, if the alternate site is owned by the developer/builder
or by the City of St. Michael. Reforestation plans shall be set forth in the
development contract for the plat. Tree replacement requirements do not
constitute landscape ordinance requirements.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.18 REQUIREMENTS FOR TREE PRESERVATION PLANS.
   Prior to the submittal of a tree preservation plan, a conceptual site plan
and site analysis shall be submitted that provides the following information:
   (A)   Concept plan.
      (1)   Location and extent of existing forest canopy cover with site
topography (2-foot contours) and slope analysis (12-18% and over 18%)
      (2)   Written description of the forest by tree type, size, general
health and quality of the forest. Description shall include typical under-story
and forest floor plant materials. Description shall be mapped and
graphically illustrate the context of the existing forest canopy and topography
exhibit.
      (3)   Proposed locations of buildings, pads, roadways and other
structures.
      (4)   Visual impact of development on woodlands, internally and from
external view corridors.
      (5)   Soils and extent of proposed disturbance zones.
      (6)   Wetlands and other protected water bodies.
      (7)   Other significant natural features.
   (B)   Preliminary plat and site plan review.
      (1)   A tree preservation plan shall be submitted with the application
for preliminary plat or site plan approval. The tree preservation plan shall be
prepared by a landscape architect or forester and by a registered surveyor,
unless otherwise approved by the city, and shall provide the following
information:
         (a)   A tree survey identifying the location, number, size (diameter)
and species of all significant trees proposed to be removed, disturbed or
preserved. The tree survey shall be omitted if at least 50% of the tree canopy
is preserved as determined by the Zoning Administrator using available
resources (i.e. aerial photo, site visit);
         (b)   Proposed disturbance zones;
         (c)   Location and dimension of preliminary building pads and
construction zone proposed on each buildable lot;
         (d)   Proposed locations and details of tree protection fencing to be
installed for all trees to be preserved;
         (e)   A reforestation plan if the amount of tree removal exceeds the
thresholds provided by this subchapter.
      (2)   The conceptual site plan, site analysis and tree preservation plan
shall be reviewed and evaluated by a representative of the city. The city may
make recommendations for adjustment of locations of structures, roadways,
utilities, or other elements that may be necessary to enhance tree preservation
and reforestation efforts.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.19 REQUIREMENTS FOR REFORESTATION PLANS.
   If the removal or disturbance of trees proposed by the preservation plan
exceeds the thresholds of this ordinance, a reforestation plan shall be
submitted as part of the tree preservation plan. The reforestation plan shall
be prepared and signed by a licensed forester or a registered landscape
architect and shall meet the following criteria:
   (A)   All reforestation trees by location, size (diameter) and species;
   (B)   No more than one-fourth of the trees may be from any one species;
   (C)   Plant materials shall be of a similar vegetation as found on site and
preference given for trees designated as native;
   (D)   Minimum sizes shall be: Deciduous - no less than 2½” caliper;
Coniferous - no less than 6' high;
   (E)   Installation shall follow City Standard Details;
   (F)   Trees shall be from certified nursery stock as defined and controlled
by M.S. §§ 18.44 through 18.61, the Plant Pest Act;
   (G)   Trees shall be covered by a minimum two-year guarantee.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.20 TREE PROTECTION MEASURES.
   The following measures for the preservation and protection of trees shall be
required:
   (A)   Required protective measures. Measures required to protect significant
trees and significant woodlands shall include:
      (1)   Installation of orange polyethylene laminate safety netting and
metal stakes placed along the disturbance zone and around significant trees to
be saved;
      (2)   Prevention of soil compaction or alteration of existing grades in
critical root zones;
      (3)   Placement of utilities in common trenches outside of the critical
root zone of significant trees, or use of tunneled installation;
      (4)   Prevention of change in soil chemistry due to concrete washout and
leakage or spillage of toxic materials, such as fuel or paints;
      (5)   Calculation of critical root zones of all significant trees near
disturbance zone and adherence to maximum 40% removal of critical root zone;
      (6)   Root pruning during construction along all disturbance zones shall
be done by hand with a chainsaw or with a Vermeer designed for root sawing
(machine will shatter roots);
      (7)   Tree stumps to be removed by grinding, not with a bulldozer, in all
areas where root pruning does not occur;
      (8)   Natural ground cover (not sod) shall be maintained where clusters
or areas of significant trees exist;
      (9)   No vehicles or equipment parking or driving out of the construction
boundaries;
   (B)   Optional protective measures.  Measures to protect significant trees
and significant woodlands may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Installation of retaining walls to preserve trees;
      (2)   Reduced row and paved areas when it can be illustrated that such
variances save trees;
      (3)   On-site layout of roads and house pads;
      (4)   Flaglots and other unconventional lot shapes when it can be
illustrated that such variances save trees;
      (5)   Variable setbacks when it can be illustrated that such variances
save trees;
      (6)   Larger lots in treed areas;
      (7)   Common washout pond for cement, paint etc., outside of woods;
      (8)   Basements dug with backhoe and material removed from site;
      (9)   Cement pumped in;
      (10)   Specified stock pile areas;
      (11)   Prioritize trees to be saved;
      (12)   PUD zoning.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.21 INCENTIVES FOR TREE PRESERVATION.
   The City of St. Michael declares it necessary and appropriate to provide
incentives to assist the developer or builder in meeting or exceeding the tree
preservation requirements. The available incentives include:
   (A)   A density bonus of 10% may be awarded in areas outside of forested
areas, if the tree removal threshold is not invoked and tree preservation
requirements exceeded. This density bonus applies only to forests of 20 acres
or more and is to be commensurate with the tree preservation efforts and forest
quality.
   (B)   Omit tree survey requirement on undisturbed forested areas if 50% of
the tree canopy cover remains undisturbed (trees must be indicative of the most
desirable forested areas) and if preserved in perpetuity (i.e. conservation
easement, open space). Calculations on total significant tree loss shall take
into account the percent of undisturbed woodlands.
   (C)   Right-of-way, width of paving, length of cul-de-sac and increased
street grades may vary to allow tree preservation.
   (D)   Shared driveways may be permitted and building setbacks and lot
configuration may vary to allow for tree preservation.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
§ 94.22 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   Performance guarantee. The developer/builder shall provide a
performance guarantee following approval of the tree preservation plan prior to
any construction and/or grading. The performance guarantee shall be included in
the security required for landscaping and screening as described in § 155.031
of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Site grading and improvements. The proposed grading plan shall be
approved by the city prior to the issuance of a grading permit, to ensure
compliance with the tree preservation plan. All sites shall be staked, as
depicted in the approved grading plan, before grading is to commence. The city
shall inspect the construction site prior to and during grading to ensure that
protective fencing and other protective measures are in place. No encroachment,
grading, trenching, filling, compaction, or change in soil chemistry shall
occur within the fenced areas protecting the root zone of the trees to be saved
throughout construction.
   (C)   Post-construction procedure.
      (1)   After grading, construction, and restoration has been completed a
forester or landscape architect, retained by the developer, shall:
         (a)   Submit in writing which significant trees and significant
woodlands remain and which have been destroyed or damaged.
         (b)   Submit a plan for city review identifying where replacement
trees, if required, will be integrated into the site.
      (2)   Following written request by the developer/builder, the performance
guarantee will be released upon verification by the city that the tree
preservation plan was followed.
(Ord. 125, passed 5-11-99)
CHAPTER 95: ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Permit required
   
95.04   Exemptions
   
95.05   Requirements for permit
   
95.06   Application procedures; fees
   
95.07   Approval of road authorities
   
95.08   Revocation/suspension of permit
   
95.09   Violations
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to insure that large gatherings or assemblies of
people held for entertainment and other special events and activities, or other
acceptable, irregular, interim communal uses and activities are conducted in
accord with the city’s zoning chapter and proper and acceptable sanitary,
police, fire, and other health and safety considerations so as to protect the
health, safety and general welfare of the public, adjoining property owners,
and of the people attending or taking part in the assembly.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSEMBLY. Any gathering of 250 or more people at any location at any single
time for the purpose of musical, political, promotional, social, entertainment,
or other similar types of activities.
   ASSEMBLY AREA. The area within which the assembly activities are to take
place.
   CITY COUNCIL. The St. Michael City Council.
   FAMILY. Persons related to each other by blood, marriage or adoption.
   PERMIT. A permit allowing an assembly to be held in the city.
   PERMITTED PREMISES. The entire area to be used to conduct an assembly
including, but not limited to, the assembly area, vehicle parking areas,
camping areas, and adjacent private and public roads.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, society or
group seeking and/or receiving an assembly permit from the city.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00)
§ 95.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except those specifically exempted in accordance with § 95.04
herein, shall maintain, conduct, allow, promote, advertise, organize, manage or
sell or give away tickets to, an actual or reasonably anticipated assembly,
whether upon public or private property, without an interim use permit duly
approved by the City Council and recorded with the Wright County Auditor in
accordance with this chapter and the applicable interim use section of the
zoning chapter. Receipt of a valid permit pursuant to this chapter does not
waive the obligation to obtain any other federal, state, or county permits or
approvals that may be required.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 95.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to the following assemblies:
   (A)   Any assembly at any regularly established and permanent place of
worship, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium, coliseum or other
similarly established place of assembly that has received zoning approval from
the city;
   (B)   Assemblies permitted or licensed by other state laws or Wright County
ordinances including those issued by the State Parks System and the Wright
County Parks System;
   (C)   City or Wright County sponsored events held on public property; and
   (D)   Family gatherings taking place entirely upon the premises of a family
member.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 95.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR PERMIT.
   Before any permit under this chapter may be issued, the applicant for the
permit shall supply information deemed sufficient by the city to establish that
the proposed assembly will satisfy the following requirements:
   (A)   Maximum number of people. A permit shall only allow the assembly of
people up to the maximum number of people stated in the permit. The City
Council may impose restrictions on the maximum number of people which may be
assembled as deemed necessary by the city to protect the health, safety and
welfare of those people who shall be in attendance, the residents of the area
in which the assembly will be held, and other residents of St. Michael. The
permit holder shall not sell tickets to nor permit to assemble at the permitted
premises, more than the maximum permissible number of people stated in the
permit.
   (B)   Fenced grounds. A fence or barrier shall enclose assembly area. The
fence shall be of sufficient height and strength to prevent people from gaining
unauthorized access to the assembly area, and shall have sufficient entrances
and exits to allow for safe and easy movement into and out of the assembly
area. Vehicle parking areas shall be exempted from inclusion within the fencing
requirement, but shall be considered to be a part of the permitted premises.
   (C)   Water. Potable water meeting all federal and state requirements for
sanitary quality, must be provided in sufficient quantities to provide drinking
water for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at least
one gallon per person per day. If the assembly is to continue for more than 24
consecutive hours, water for bathing must be provided at the rate of at least
ten gallons per person per day.
   (D)   Food. The preparation, sale and dispensing of any food on the
permitted premises shall be by vendors licensed by the Minnesota Department of
Health.
   (E)   Toilets. Enclosed toilets allowing for separate use by males and
females, sufficient in number to accommodate the maximum number of people to be
assembled, shall be provided and shall be conveniently located throughout the
permitted premises. Such facilities shall be provided in accordance with state
regulations and the recommendations of the Wright County Office of Planning and
Zoning, Division of Environmental Health.
   (F)   Solid waste disposal. The permitted premises shall be maintained in a
neat and orderly manner and the permit holder shall provide a sanitary method
of disposing of solid waste which is sufficient to dispose of the solid waste
production of the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of at
least 2.5 pounds of solid waste per person per day. The method of disposal
shall also provide for collection and removal from the permitted premises of
all solid waste at least once each day of the assembly. The handling and
disposal of solid waste shall also be accomplished in compliance with all city,
county and state regulations regarding solid waste. A sufficient number of
recycling storage bins must be made available for glass, aluminum, plastic, and
other recyclable waste.
   (G)   Noise. All necessary precautions shall be taken to ensure that the
sound of the assembly shall not carry unreasonably beyond the permitted
premises. All events must be in compliance with the State of Minnesota
Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota Rules Chapter 7005, as amended.
   (H)   Parking. The permit holder shall, at a minimum, provide a parking area
of sufficient size to provide parking space for the maximum number of people to
be assembled, based upon a calculated rate of at least one parking space for
every three people. All parking must be off of public roadways.
   (I)   Public telephones. Public telephones shall be provided so as to
provide service to the maximum number of people to be assembled at the rate of
at least one separate line and receiver for each 500 persons or any incremental
portion in excess thereof. All phone locations shall be clearly marked and
easily identifiable.
   (J)   Administrative control center. The permit holder shall provide an
administrative control center which shall be equipped with a telephone by which
local authorities may contact the permit holder, law enforcement personnel, or
other people in attendance at the assembly.
   (K)   Lighting. For assemblies continuing during hours of darkness, the
permit holder shall provide sufficient illumination to safely light the entire
permitted premises, but such illumination shall not extend beyond the
boundaries of the permitted premises.
   (L)   Medical facilities. The permit holder shall insure the availability of
appropriate medical facilities. For assemblies in excess of 500 people, the
permit holder shall provide at the assembly area an emergency ambulance staffed
by at least two licensed emergency attendants. The necessity of additional
medical facilities and personnel shall be determined by the emergency medical
providers for the assembly.
   (M) Security. The permit holder shall prepare and implement a security,
traffic, weather emergency and alcohol and drug control plan which shall meet
the requirements of the city and the Wright County Sheriff. The permit holder
shall be required to provide for the presence of law enforcement personnel in
such numbers as determined and deemed appropriate by the Wright County Sheriff.
   (N)   Fire protection. The permit holder shall submit a plan for fire
protection, which must be approved by the St. Michael Fire Chief.
   (O)   Camping facilities. If the assembly is to continue overnight, camping
facilities shall be provided which are sufficient to provide accommodations for
the maximum number of persons reasonably anticipated to remain overnight.
Camping facilities shall meet the guidelines established by the Minnesota
Department of Health. All minors (under 18 years of age) shall be accompanied
by an adult.
   (P)   Alcohol. Depending on the nature and size of an assembly, the city may
require that no alcohol be served or consumed on the permitted premises at any
time during the assembly, or the city may require the permit holder to obtain a
temporary on-sale liquor license.
   (Q)   Insurance. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the person shall file
with the city a certificate of insurance demonstrating that the person has
obtained a policy of insurance naming the city as an additional insured thereon
in the amount of not less than $1,000,000 coverage for bodily injury, death or
property damage arising out of the assembly. A larger coverage amount maybe
required as deemed necessary by the city.
   (R)   Financial security. Prior to the issuance of a permit, the person
shall file with the city a bond, either in cash or underwritten by a surety
company licensed to do business in the State of Minnesota, or an irrevocable
letter of credit, in an amount to be determined by the city. The financial
security shall be used to indemnify and hold harmless the city and its agents,
officials and employees from any liability, claims, or causes of action which
might arise from the issuance of the permit. Said financial security shall also
be used to reimburse the city for services provided to the permit holder by the
city, for any cost incurred by the city in cleaning up, removing and disposing
of any solid waste left by the assembly and for all costs incurred by the city
to enforce the permit. No portion of the financial security shall be released
to the permit holder until all requirements of the permit have been satisfied,
as determined by the City Council.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 95.06 APPLICATION PROCEDURES; FEES.
   (A)   Application. A completed application for a permit shall be made
according to the interim use permit provisions of the city’s zoning chapter.
   (B)   Verification. The application shall be signed and verified by the
person requesting the permit and by the owner of the permitted premises. If the
person is a corporation, the application shall be signed by the president or
other authorized officer. If the person is an association, society, partnership
or group, the application shall be signed by the appropriate officers or
partners or, if there are no officers or partners, by all members.
   (C)   Fee. The city shall charge a non-refundable application fee and a fee
for each permit issued under this chapter. The amount of the fees shall be in
accordance with the fee schedule as adopted from time to time by the City
Council. The non-refundable application fee shall be paid at the time of
submitting a completed application. A cash escrow in an amount determined by
the city may also be required to cover the city’s administrative, planning,
engineering, and legal expenses associated with reviewing the application for
the permit.
   (D)   Application information. The person seeking a permit shall supply all
information requested on the application form, including the following:
      (1)   The name, date of birth, residence, and mailing address of the
person applying and of each individual required by division (B) above to sign
the application.
      (2)   The address and legal description of the proposed permitted
premises, together with the name, residence, and mailing address of the record
owner(s) of all such property.
      (3)   The nature or purpose of the proposed assembly.
      (4)   The dates and times during which the proposed assembly will be
held.
      (5)   Detailed information as to how the person applying will insure that
the assembly will comply with the requirements of § 95.05 of this chapter.
      (6)   A site plan as described in the city’s zoning chapter.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00)
§ 95.07 APPROVAL OF ROAD AUTHORITIES.
   Within 30 days of submitting the completed application required by this
chapter, the person shall secure the written approval of the appropriate road
authorities for the traffic control plan and points of access onto established
public road systems for purposes of the assembly.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00)
§ 95.08 REVOCATION/SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   Any permit issued under this chapter may be revoked by the city for
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or for failure to comply
with any of the conditions contained within the permit. The Wright County
Sheriff may suspend operation of and close any assembly prior to the expiration
of the permit granted under the provisions of this chapter in the event of a
riot, major disorder, violation of the permit, or serious breach of the peace,
as determined by the Wright County Sheriff to be necessary to prevent injury to
people and/or damage to property.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00)
§ 95.09 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter or who makes any
false statement on the application required by § 95.06 shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. In addition to other remedies allowed by law, the City Council may
authorize the City Attorney to institute appropriate actions or proceedings to
prevent, restrain, correct or abate violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 134, passed 7-11-00)
CHAPTER 96: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Exception of definitions
   
96.03   Licensing
   
96.04   Licensing exemptions
   
96.05   Ineligibility for license
   
96.06   License suspension and revocation
   
96.07   License transferability
   
96.08   Registration and identification of solicitors
   
96.09   Prohibited activities
   
96.10   Compliance with zoning
   
96.11   Exclusion by placard
   
96.12   Severability
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOING BUSINESS BY APPOINTMENT. A bona fide appointment, and not merely
obtained by going door-to-door in conjunction with the taking of orders,
offering for sale or selling.
   EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS AND EXEMPT POLITICAL SOLICITORS. Tax-exempt, nonprofit,
charitable, religious and educational organizations pursuant to Section 501(c)
of the Internal Revenue Code or tax-exempt political organizations under
Section 527 of the Internal Revenue Code and registered pursuant to M.S. §
10A.14. Exempt political solicitors include candidates for public office,
members of a candidate's election committee, or persons working on behalf of a
candidate or any political issue, including without limitation, initiative,
referendum, recall, levy or special ballot question. "Charitable
organizations," "Religious organizations" and "Educational organizations" shall
be defined as set forth in Minn. Rules § 130.6200, Subps. 2, 3 and 4.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR TO DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For the purpose of this chapter, the term NON-COMMERCIAL
DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE shall include door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering
intended for noncommercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place to place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting within the city. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as
the term hawker.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation
partnership, limited liability company or any other legal entity or
association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations, partnerships,
limited liability companies and associations, the term includes each member,
officer, partner, associate, agent or employee.
   PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER. Any person who, for compensation, performs any
solicitations or other services for a religious, political, social or
educational or charitable organization.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which City Hall is normally open for
the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law are
not counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place to place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products
merchandise, other personal property or services of which the person may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as stated above. The term SOLICITOR shall mean the
same as the term canvasser.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Defined as set forth in M.S. § 329.099.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and
TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to:
      (1)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Person engaging in noncommercial door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register under §
96.08 of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler.
      (3)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk.
      (4)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products
to the customers on his or her established delivery route.
      (5)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large.
      (6)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales, or estate sales.
      (7)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market.
      (8)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer.
      (9)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
      (10)   Any candidate for public office, or those working for a candidate
for public office, who goes door to door to campaign.
   (B)   Exceptions to these definitions shall not, for the scope of this
chapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory
provision or requirement provided by this or any other city code requirement.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.03 LICENSING.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, or transient merchant within the city limits without first having
obtained the appropriate license from the county as may be required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler
or transient merchant without first obtaining a city license. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are required to register with the city pursuant to §
96.08.
   (C)   Application. An application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business operation within
the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the
City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. Any fraud,
misrepresentation, or false statement on the application shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. All applications shall be signed by the applicant.
   (D)   All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's full legal name.
      (2)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer to.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, and distinguishing marks or features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business, if any
exists.
      (8)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
      (11)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business.
      (12)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the previous five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
for violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
minor traffic offenses.
      (13)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (14)   Proof of any required county license.
      (15)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant.
      (16)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (17)   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Council.
      (18)   The applicant's driver's license number or other form of
identification acceptable to the city.
      (19)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   (E)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule ordinance
as it may be amended from time to time by the City Council.
   (F)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, or its designee, shall within ten business
days determine if the application is complete. An application will be
considered complete if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk,
or its designee, determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk,
or its designee, must inform the applicant of the required, necessary
information that is missing. The City Clerk, or its designee, shall review a
complete application and order any investigation, including background checks,
necessary to verify the information provided with the application. Within ten
regular business days of receiving a complete application the City Clerk, or
its designee, shall issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the
license application under §
96.05 of this chapter, in which case the Clerk, or its designee, shall deny the
request for a city peddler or transient merchant license. If the City Clerk, or
its designee, denies the license application, the applicant must be notified in
writing of the decision, the reason for denial and the applicant's right to
appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of
rejection, a hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the
appeal within 20 days of the date of the request for a hearing. The decision of
the City Council following the hearing may be appealed by petitioning the
Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (G)   Duration. A license granted under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issuance.
   (H)   Professional fundraisers not exempt. A professional fundraiser working
on behalf of an otherwise exempt organization shall not be exempt from the
licensing requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 LICENSE EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Farm and garden products. No license shall be required for any person
to sell or attempt to sell, or to take or to take or attempt to take orders
for, any product grown, produced, cultivated, or raised on any farm.
   (B)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. No license shall be required
for any person going from house-to-house, door-to door, business-to-business,
street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement for the primary
purpose of exercising that person's state or federal constitutional rights such
as the freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion, and the
like. This exemption will not apply if the person's exercise of constitutional
rights is merely incidental to what would properly be considered a commercial
activity.
   (C)   Exempt organizations. Individuals engaging in peddling or transient
sales of goods, wares and merchandise on behalf of an exempt organization as
defined in this chapter shall not be required to be licensed, but must have on
them at all times while engaged in these activities some form of exempt
organization identification as defined in this section chapter. The burden of
proving the person's an individual's exemption from licensing shall be on its
claimant the person claiming the exemption. The exemption from licensing does
not include individuals who are paid to engage in regulated activity.
   (D)   Holders of conditional use permits. Where outdoor transient merchant
sales are permitted under a conditional use permit approved by the City
Council, this chapter shall apply only to the extent that such provisions have
been included in the conditional use permit. Nothing herein shall limit the
authority of the City Council to impose other reasonable conditions where they
are deemed by the city to be appropriate.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain, or failure to demonstrate proof
of having obtained, any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process.
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application.
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (E)   A conviction within the previous five years of the date of the
application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or
of any city ordinance or code requirement, which adversely reflects upon the
applicant's ability to conduct the business for which the license is being
sought in a professional, honest and legal manner. Such violation shall
include, but is not limited to, burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud,
unlawful business practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm
against another person.
   (F)   The revocation within the previous five years of any license issued to
an applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler or transient
merchant.
   (G)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general's
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.06 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge obtained by the city of fraud,
misrepresentation or incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the
application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
96.05 of this chapter.
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
96.09 of this chapter.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with verbal and written notice
of alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing
on the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application; if no
residential address is listed, then to the business address provided on the
license application.
   (D)   Hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of this
section, the licensee shall have the right to request a hearing. If no request
for a hearing is received by the City Clerk or its designee within seven days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a hearing is
requested within the stated time frame it shall be scheduled within 20 days
from the date of the request for the hearing. Within three regular business
days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Clerk or City
Administrator, imminent harm to the health or safety of the public may occur
because of the actions of a peddler or transient merchant licensed under this
chapter, the City Clerk, or its designee, may immediately suspend the person's
license and provide notice of the right to hold a subsequent hearing as
prescribed in division (D) of this section.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.07 LICENSE TRANFERABILITY.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be valid only for the licensee to
whom the license was issued. A license shall not be transferred to any other
person.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.08 REGISTRATION AND IDENTIFICATION OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   All solicitors shall be required to register with the city prior to
engaging in those activities. Registration shall be made on the same form
required for a license application but no fee shall be required. Upon
completion of the registration form, the city shall issue to the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of a solicitor's registration, the City Clerk shall
issue to each individual employee, agent, or representative registered for
direct solicitation, a registration card as proof of registration. Every
solicitor registered hereunder shall carry and display his or her registration
card at all times while engaged in solicitation, upon a lanyard or in a manner
such that the information is readily, continuously and clearly visible and
unobstructed.
   (C)   Individuals and exempt organizations engaging in non-commercial door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register or obtain a certificate of
registration.
(Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.09 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
such activity or carry out their activity in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Refusing to leave. It shall be unlawful to refuse to leave premises
owned or leased by another after having been notified by the owner or occupant
to leave the premises.
   (B)   Misrepresentation. It shall be unlawful to make false or fraudulent
statements concerning the quality of the goods or services which are being
offered for sale.
   (C)   Hours of operation. It shall be unlawful to engage in activities
regulated by this Chapter between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (D)   Use of audio devices or unreasonable noise. It shall be unlawful to
call attention to activities regulated by this chapter by means of blowing a
horn or whistle, by ringing any bell, by crying out, or by making any other
noise in an unreasonable manner.
   (E)   Obstructing traffic. It shall be unlawful to obstruct the free flow of
either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any street, alley, sidewalk or other
public right-of-way.
   (F)   Safety hazard. It shall be unlawful to conduct activities regulated by
this chapter in such a way as to create a threat to the health, safety and
welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (G)   Proof of license. It shall be unlawful to fail to provide proof of
license, registration or identification when requested, or to use those of
another person.
   (H)   False statements. It shall be unlawful to make false or misleading
statements about the product or services being sold, including untrue
statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-
commercial door-to-door advocate or other person engaged in other similar
activities shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely based on the
city having issued a license or certificate of registration to that person.
   (I)   Harassment. It shall be unlawful to conduct business in a manner a
reasonable person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
   (J)   Sales from vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any transient merchant
to sell any goods or items directly from a vehicle.
   (K)   Approach to residence. Only one peddler working for the same company
or organization shall approach each residence and no peddler shall approach a
residence more than once per license unless invited back by the resident.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.10 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING.
   Transient merchants shall comply with all requirements of the St. Michael
Zoning Code. Compliance with the zoning code location, information and plan
requirements shall be verified in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.11 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or
other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property
of another for the purpose of conducting activity as a peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate or similar activity
when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long;
      (2)   At least four inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size; and
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants,”
“Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard complying with this
chapter.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.12 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99 of this code. Each day on which such violation continues shall constitute
a separate offense.
(Ord. 1005, passed 9-28-10; Am. Ord. 1706, passed 12-26-17)
CHAPTER 97: SOLID WASTE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
Section
   
97.01   Purpose and intent
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   License requirement
   
97.04   Limitation on number of licenses; collection required
   
97.05   License regulations, terms, and conditions
   
97.06   Revocation and denial
   
97.07   Vehicle standards
   
97.08   Disposal of waste
   
97.09   Collection practices
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   An ordinance authorizing and providing standards and regulations for
governing the collection, transportation, and disposal of all waste generated
within the corporate limits of the city to promote the health, welfare, and
safety of the public, and protect resources of water, air, and land pursuant to
M.S. Chapter 115A, as amended.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. A person licensed by the city to collect, transport, and dispose
of garbage and refuse. The term shall include the COLLECTOR'S duly authorized
and acting employees and agents.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and consumption of food, and from the handling,
storage, and sale of produce, and discarded and useless material except
recyclable materials.
   GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION. The taking up and collecting of all garbage
and refuse accumulated at all dwelling residences and places of business and
other institutions in the city and the  transportation of such garbage and
refuse to a sanitary landfill or other place of legal disposal provided by the
collector at the sole expense of the collector.
   MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, and other solid waste from
residential, commercial, industrial, and community activities, which is
generated and collected in aggregate, but does not include auto hulks, ash,
construction debris, mining waste, sludge, tree and agricultural wastes, tires,
lead acid batteries, used oil, and other material collected, processed, and
disposed of as separate waste streams. Street sweepings are included in this
definition of MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE if they are properly screened and
meet applicable MPCA standards for heavy metal content.
   REFUSE. Discarded waste materials in a solid or semi-liquid state consisting
of garbage, rubbish, or a combination thereof.
   WASTE CONTAINER. A container of galvanized iron, plastic, or non-corrodible
material with a close fitting cover, rodent and flyproof, non-absorbent and
leakproof, of the type commonly sold as a garbage can, of suitable gauge and
construction to ensure durability, with suitable handles on can and lid, and of
a capacity not less than ten gallons; but does not include recycling
containers.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19)
§ 97.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   No person, except as provided herein, shall remove mixed municipal solid
waste from any premises in the city, transport such waste upon the streets and
public highways within the city, dispose of such waste originating in the city,
or contract to be engaged in any such removal, transportation, or disposal,
without first having obtained a license therefor from the city.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF LICENSES; COLLECTION REQUIRED.
   In order to protect the environment, and the health, safety, and welfare of
the residents, businesses, and institutions in the city:
   (A)   No more than three mixed municipal solid waste collection licenses and
one recycling license issued to a party who has a contract with the city may be
in force at one time, except that a collector with a 2019 mixed municipal solid
waste collection license as of the date of this section may continue to receive
a license provided that such collector submits an application for renewal
annually and said collector's license is not revoked or its renewal application
is not denied;
   (B)   If a currently issued license is not renewed or is revoked, a new
license shall not be issued unless there are no more than two licenses in force
at such time the new license is applied for; and
   (C)   Every owner, occupant, or tenant of any premises who does not
otherwise dispose of mixed municipal solid waste generated from said premises
in an environmentally sound, sanitary, and legal manner shall place all such
mixed municipal solid waste in a waste container and contract with a licensed
collector to collect and dispose of such mixed municipal solid waste from said
premises.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 LICENSE REGULATIONS, TERMS, AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Application. Any person or party desiring a city license to conduct
business as a collector shall, at least 14 regular business days before the
applicant desires to begin conducting a mixed municipal solid waste collector
business operation within the city, submit an application for a collector
license. An application for a collector license shall be made on a form
approved by the City Council and available from the office of the City Clerk.
Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement on the application shall
constitute a violation of this chapter and will be grounds for denial of the
license application.
   (B)   Fee. Each application for a collector license under this chapter shall
be accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule
ordinance as it may be amended from time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   Renewal and expiration. Each collector license issued by the city
shall expire on December 31 of each year and may be renewable upon submission
of a new application.
   (D)   Insurance. Applicants shall, in conjunction with the filing of an
application, furnish the city with certificate of insurance by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, establishing that the applicant
carries and maintains the types and amounts of insurance described in divisions
(1) through (4) below, and that the insurance policies comply with division (5)
below.
      (1)   Commercial general liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If such insurance contains an annual aggregate
limit, the annual aggregate limit shall be not less than $2,000,000.
      (2)   Commercial automobile liability insurance with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence. The insurance shall cover liability arising
out of any auto, including owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles.
      (3)   Umbrella/excess liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence.
      (4)   Workers compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence of
exemption from state law.
      (5)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the general
liability, auto liability, and umbrella/excess liability policies. The
insurance coverage must be primary and non-contributory. A certificate must be
on file with the city at all times while a licensee operates as a collector in
the city.
   (E)   License transferability. Collector licenses may be transferable if the
proposed transferee complies with the application and other requirements of
this chapter.
   (F)   No vested right. No collector holding a collector license shall
acquire a vested right of any kind in that license. The city may, if it
determines it to be in the public interest, establish other means of refuse
collection or decrease the number of collector licenses to be issued.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.06 REVOCATION AND DENIAL.
   (A)   A license issued pursuant to this chapter may be revoked by the City
Council for any of the following.
      (1)   Conviction. The conviction of any crime of the licensee or its
owners for the violation of the requirements of this chapter or the laws of the
state regarding public health.
      (2)   Fraud. Commission of fraud or misrepresentation with regard to the
application for a collector license, or with regard to the carrying on of the
licensed activity.
      (3)   Conduct. Conducting such licensed activity in such manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace, or a menace to the health, safety, and
welfare of the public, or a disturbance of the peace or comfort of the
residents of the city, upon recommendation of the city health authorities or
other appropriate city official.
      (4)   Insurance. Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or
insurance, or failure to notify the city within a reasonable time of changes in
the licensee's terms of its insurance or its insurance carriers.
      (5)   Performance. Actions of the licensee that the city finds to be in
violation of this chapter or other applicable city ordinances or beyond the
scope of the license granted.
      (6)   Compliance. Three verified violations by a licensee of the
conditions and requirements of this chapter, within a two-year period.
   (B)   Revocation. Revocation of a collector license shall be preceded by a
public hearing conducted before the City Council. The City Council may appoint
a hearing examiner or may conduct the hearing itself. The hearing notice shall
be given to the licensee at least ten days prior to the hearing, shall include
notice of the time and place of the hearing, and shall state the nature of the
reasons for the revocation of the collector license. The licensee shall have an
opportunity to appear at the hearing in person, by agent, or by attorney, and
present evidence relative to the matter under consideration. Notice shall be
provided to the licensee by mail.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.07 VEHICLE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Licensees and vehicles used to collect and transport mixed municipal
solid waste over the streets and alleys of the city must at all times comply
with the following.
      (1)   Waste covered. Vehicles shall have a fully enclosed metal body
which is tightly sealed and properly maintained.
      (2)   Containment of odors. Vehicles shall be maintained and operated to
prevent offensive odors escaping from the vehicle.
      (3)   Cleanup of spilled waste. Vehicles shall be maintained and operated
to prevent solids or liquids from leaking, spilling, dropping, or blowing from
the vehicle. If any material is released from a collector's vehicle or
container, the collector shall pick up the material immediately and properly
clean the area. If the material is hazardous in nature or a hazardous waste,
the collector must immediately notify the city and comply with all other
applicable statutes, rules, and regulations.
      (4)   Backup warning device. Vehicles shall be equipped with a backup
device which complies with state statutes and state highway regulations
thereto.
      (5)   Sanitation and appearance. Vehicles shall be kept clean and in good
repair and appearance and shall be maintained in a sanitary condition so as to
prevent spills, leaks, insect breeding, or other nuisance characteristics. If
operation of a collector's vehicle causes a spill or leak of a hazardous
material, such as hydraulic fluid, fuel, oil, or similar material, the
collector shall clean up the material immediately, notify the city, and comply
with all other applicable statutes, rules, and regulations.
      (6)   Identification. Vehicles shall display the licensee's name and
telephone number in a conspicuous place on both sides of each licensed vehicle
in letters and numerals no less than four inches in height.
   (B)   Inspection. No license shall be issued or renewed until the vehicle(s)
to be used by the licensee has passed a state approved inspection and received
a commercial vehicle (CV) inspection certificate from either the state or a CV
dealer authorized by the state to conduct CV inspections. The inspection
certificate for the proposed licensed vehicle must be dated within 12 months
from the date of the application or renewal. Collectors shall routinely inspect
vehicles to prevent spilling or leaking of waste and hazardous materials.
   (C)   Storage of vehicles in the city. Collectors shall not store or keep
their waste removal vehicles in the city when not in use (after such vehicle is
free from all waste) unless located within a properly zoned district and the
site complies with all zoning and other applicable city code requirements.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.08 DISPOSAL OF WASTE.
   All mixed municipal solid waste or refuse collected by any collector, shall
be disposed of only at places specifically authorized by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency for such disposal.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.09 COLLECTION PRACTICES.
   (A)   Collection. Hauling of all mixed municipal solid waste, except yard
waste, shall be conducted on the collection day(s) that corresponds to the
hauling districts specified in division (B) below, with the following
exceptions:
      (1)   When a legal holiday falls on a normal collection day, in which
case the collector shall provide service on the next day; and
      (2)   Extreme inclement weather prevents the collector from collecting
the mixed municipal solid waste, except yard waste, on the scheduled day, in
which case the collector shall provide the collection on the next day that
weather permits such collection.
   (B)   Districts.
 
District                     Location                    Days of the Week
Agricultural and Residential West of County Road 19      Tuesday
District 1                   center line
Agricultural and Residential East of County Road 19      Thursday
District 2                   center line
Commercial, Industrial, and  Commercial, Industrial, and
Public/Institutional         Public/Institutional zoned  Monday through Friday
                             parcels
 
   (C)   Hours of operation. No licensed collector may operate between the
hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine or imprisonment, or both as
specified by state statute.
(Ord. 0505, passed 12-27-05)
CHAPTER 98: REGISTRATION OF VACANT BUILDINGS
Section
   
98.01   Purpose and findings
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Vacant building registration
   
98.04   Vacant building registration fee
   
98.05   City action
   
98.06   Certification of unpaid service charges
   
98.07   Penalty for failure to register
   
98.08   Appeal by owner
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council is enacting this chapter to help protect the public
health, safety and welfare by establishing a program for the identification and
registration of vacant buildings within the city. This chapter also impose
certain responsibilities on owners of vacant buildings and provides for
administration, enforcement, and penalties associated with the same.
   (B)   The City Council finds that vacant buildings are a major cause and
source of blight in residential and non-residential neighborhoods, especially
when the owner or responsible party of the building fails to actively maintain
and manage the building to ensure it does not become a liability to the
neighborhood. Vacant buildings often attract transients, homeless people,
trespassers and criminals, including drug abusers. Neglect of vacant buildings,
as well as use of vacant buildings by transients and criminals, creates a risk
of fire, explosion or flooding for the vacant building and adjacent properties.
Vacant properties often are used as dumping grounds for junk and debris and
often are overgrown with weeds and grass. Vacant buildings that are boarded to
prevent entry by transients, and other long-term vacancies, discourage economic
development and retard appreciation of property values. There is a substantial
cost to the city for monitoring vacant buildings whether or not those buildings
are boarded. This cost should not be borne by the general taxpayers of the
community; but rather, these costs should be borne by those who choose to leave
their buildings vacant.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING.  Any roofed structure used or intended for supporting or
sheltering any use or occupancy.
   CITY.  The City of St. Michael, Minnesota.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING.  A building that is potentially hazardous to persons or
property, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A building that is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   A building with any exterior parts that are loose or in danger of
falling; or
      (3)   A building with any parts, such as floors, porches, railings,
ramps, balconies, or roofs, that are accessible and that are either collapsed,
or in danger of collapsing, or unable to support the weight of normally imposed
loads.
   OWNER OR PROPERTY OWNER.  The owner of record according to Wright County
property tax records; those identified as owner or owners on a vacant building
registration form, a holder of an unrecorded contract for deed, a mortgagor or
vendee in possession, an assignee of rents, a receiver, an executor, a trustee,
a lessee, other person, firm, corporation or other entity or organization in
control of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate therein. An owner also
means any person, partnership, association, corporation, limited liability
company or fiduciary having a legal or equitable title or any interest in the
property or building. This includes any partner, officer or director of any
partnership, corporation, limited liability company, association or other
legally constituted business entity. All owners shall have joint and several
obligations for compliance with the provisions of this section.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  An owner, entity or person acting as an agent for the
owner who has direct or indirect control or authority over the building or real
property upon which the building is located; and any party having a legal or
equitable interest in the property. Responsible party may include but is not
limited to a realtor, service provider, mortgagee, leasing agent, management
company or similar person or entity.
   SECURED BY OTHER THAN NORMAL MEANS.  A building secured by means other than
those used in the design of the building.
   UNSECURED BUILDING.  A building or portion of building that is open to entry
by unauthorized persons without the use of tools.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING.  A building which is not being used for a legal
occupancy.
   VACANT BUILDING.
      (1)   A building or portion of building that is unoccupied and meets one
or more of the following conditions:
         (a)   Unoccupied and in any phase of an active foreclosure proceeding
under Minnesota Statutes;
         (b)   Unoccupied or unsecured for five consecutive days or more;
         (c)   Unoccupied and secured by other than normal means for 15
consecutive days or more;
         (d)   Unoccupied and a dangerous building;
         (e)   Unoccupied and posted for no occupancy or unfit for human
habitation;
         (f)   Unoccupied and has city code violation(s) existing for five days
or more; or
         (g)   Condemned and illegally occupied.
      (2)   VACANT BUILDING  does not mean any building being constructed
pursuant to a valid, unexpired building permit issued pursuant to city building
code regulations.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.03 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Registration.
      (1)   The owner of a vacant building shall register the building with the
city no later than seven days after the building becomes a vacant building as
defined in this chapter.
      (2)   The city may register an unoccupied building as a vacant building
when the city takes ordinance enforcement action or action to abate an
ordinance violation against the owner of an unoccupied building or the grounds
upon which it is located. In such case, the city shall complete all forms
required by this chapter and may special assess all registration costs against
such property.
   (B)   Application. Registration shall be completed by the owner or
responsible party on forms provided by the city. Such completed registration
may be sent to the owner and all other parties holding an ownership or security
interest in the property, if requested. Registration information shall include
the following:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and email address, if
applicable, of each owner and each owner's representative;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses, if
applicable, of all known lien holders and other parties with any legal interest
in the building;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number and email address, if
applicable, of a local agent or person responsible for managing or maintaining
the property upon which the building is situated;
      (4)   The tax parcel identification number and street address of the
property on which the building is situated;
      (5)   The date the building became vacant and the period of time the
building is expected to remain vacant;
      (6)   The status of water, sewer, natural gas and electric utilities; and
      (7)   A property plan and timetable for returning the building to
appropriate occupancy or use and correcting code violations and nuisances, or
for demolition of the building.
   (C)   Registration changes. The owner, or responsible party, shall notify
the city within seven days of changes in any of the information supplied as
part of the vacant building registration.
   (D)   Property plan. The property plan, identified above in §
98.03(B)(7) shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   General provisions. The plan shall comply with all applicable
regulations and meet the approval of the Building Official. It shall contain a
timetable regarding use or demolition of the building. The plan shall be
completed within ten working days after the building is registered.
      (2)   Maintenance of building/grounds. The plan shall identify the means
and timetable for addressing all maintenance and nuisance-related items
identified in the application. Any repairs, improvements or alterations to the
building shall comply with building code provisions and applicable city
regulations. The owner, or responsible party, shall keep the vacant building
secured and safe, and the building grounds maintained.
      (3)   Plan changes. If the property plan or timetable for the vacant
building is revised in any way for any purpose, the revisions shall meet the
approval of the Building Official.
      (4)   Disconnect of utilities. The owner, or responsible party, of a
vacant building shall disconnect utilities to the vacant building when required
by the Building Official.
   (E)   Access. The owner, or responsible party, of a vacant building must
allow the city access for inspections. The city will provide the owner, or
responsible party, with a five day notice for any inspection request except
where a hazardous or unsafe condition exists, in which case the city may access
the vacant building for inspection purposes after making a reasonable effort to
contact the owner, or responsible party, via telephone.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.04 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   The owner of a vacant building shall pay an annual registration fee of
$100. The fee may be modified by City Council resolution from time to time.
Subsequent annual fees shall be paid on the anniversary of the initial
registration. This fee is imposed to defray the cost of registering and
monitoring the vacant building.
   (B)   The first annual fee shall be paid no later than ten days after the
building has become a vacant building as defined by this chapter.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.05 CITY ACTION.
   The city may take the following actions in relation to a vacant building.
The building owner shall reimburse the city for all costs incurred by the city
pursuant to this chapter.
   (A)   The city may shut off water service to the vacant building, unless the
owner can show good cause why water service should remain on.
   (B)   The city may inspect the vacant building and the property upon which
it is situated each month.
   (C)   The city may take any other action required to secure the building.
   (D)   The city may mow the lawn, landscape or grounds of any property upon
which a vacant building is situated as needed if the plant growth violates city
ordinances and the owner fails to timely maintain the plant growth on the
property in accordance with city ordinances.
   (E)   The city may plow sidewalks and driveways located on any property upon
which the vacant building is situated, remove garbage from the property, and
take any other actions authorized by law to remedy an ordinance violation.
   (F)   The city may conduct site inspections of the property upon which the
vacant building is located as needed to insure that the building is secure, the
grounds are maintained and compliance with the terms of this chapter is
achieved.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.06 CERTIFICATION OF UNPAID SERVICE CHARGES.
   In the event the owner of a vacant building fails to reimburse the city
within 30 days of mailing of a bill by the city for costs incurred by the city
pursuant to enforcement of this chapter against the owner of property upon
which a vacant building is situated, or in the event the vacant building owner
fails to pay the registration fee required by this chapter, the city may
certify such unpaid charges to the County Auditor for collection with the next
year's property taxes after ten days mailed notice to the property owner sent
via first class U.S. Mail to the owner's address as listed on the tax records
at the Wright County Recorder's Office.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.07 PENALTY FOR FAILURE TO REGISTER.
   Any owner who fails to register a vacant building under this section or who
provides inaccurate or false information shall face an administrative fine of
$100 for each month that the vacant building remains unregistered.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.08 APPEAL BY OWNER.
   Any owner of a vacant building who believes that an order or penalty issued
under this chapter is based on an erroneous interpretation of this chapter or a
misstatement of facts may appeal to the City Council. Such appeal must be in
writing and must specify the grounds for the appeal. Any appeal must be filed
within ten days of the action taken with which the owner disagrees.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalty
provisions set forth in §
10.99(A) of this Code.
(Ord. 1105, passed 7-26-11)
CHAPTER 99: PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTION
Section
   
99.01   Purpose and intent
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Residency prohibition, measurement of distance and official map
   
99.04   Exceptions
   
99.05   Prohibition against renting real property to certain designated
offenders and administrative penalties
   
99.06   Severability
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Repeat predatory offenders present a threat to the public safety of
the community as a whole, especially children. Predatory offenders assigned a
risk level III under the risk assessment scale established by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Corrections are more likely than other classifications of
offenders to use physical violence, to repeat their offenses, to have committed
multiple offenses, to have more victims than are ever reported, and, as a
result, to be prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. Predatory
offenders assigned a risk level III under the risk assessment scale established
by the Minnesota Commissioner of Corrections who reside in close proximity to
places and areas frequented by children are more likely to develop a
relationship or familiarity with a child that would increase such predatory
offender's likelihood to re-offend. The cost of predatory offender
victimization to society at large, while not precisely calculable, is steep.
   (B)   As expressed in M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 32, the city has power to
provide for the prevention of crime, the benefit of residence, and the
promotion of health, safety, order, convenience, and the general welfare, as it
deems necessary and expedient.’
   (C)   The city has a compelling interest in promoting, protecting, and
improving the health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens, and
specifically has a compelling interest to protect against the serious threat to
children posed by predatory offenders, including the risk of recidivism and
harm that released sex offenders, assessed at a risk level III due to their
high risk of re-offense, will pose to this community.
   (D)   By this section, the city prohibits certain predatory offenders of
risk level III from establishing temporary or permanent residence in certain
locations where children are known to regularly congregate in concentrated
numbers.
(Ord. 1608, passed 12-13-16)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of 18.
   CHILD CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed by the Minnesota Department of
Human Services, or Wright County to provide child care, including facilities
having programs for children known as nursery schools, day nurseries, child
care centers, day care centers, cooperative day care centers, and Head Start
programs.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person who has been categorized as a level III
predatory offender under M.S, § 244.052, a successor statute, or a similar
statute from another state in which that person's risk assessment indicates a
high risk of re-offense.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC PARK. A public recreation center or area, created, established,
designated, maintained, provided, or set aside by the city, county, or state,
for the purposes of public rest, recreation, and enjoyment, and all buildings,
facilities, and structures located thereon.
   PRIVATE PLAYGROUND. A private improved outdoor play area that may contain
permanent play equipment, typically owned and maintained by a homeowner
association, that is designed, equipped, and set aside for children's play,
whether or not it is located adjacent to or within a recreational area that
also includes recreational amenities used by adults such as a swimming pool or
tennis court(s).
   PUBLIC PLAYGROUND. A city, county, or state-owned public improved outdoor
area designed, equipped, and set aside for children's play, including a school
building playground, a child care building playground, a play area of a public
park, or an area that contains permanent play equipment open to the public.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges, or resides for a
period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person's permanent residence, or a place where the person routinely
abides, lodges, or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days in any month and which is not the person's permanent
residence.
   SCHOOL. Any public or nonpublic early childhood, pre-school, elementary,
middle, or secondary school.
(Ord. 1608, passed 12-13-16)
§ 99.03 RESIDENCE PROHIBITION, MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE AND OFFICIAL MAP.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any designated offender to establish a permanent
or temporary residence within 2,000 feet of any school, licensed child care
facility, private playground, public park, or public playground.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any designated offender to establish a permanent
residence or temporary residence within 2,000 feet of another permanent
residence or temporary residence housing a designated predatory offender.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation required by § 99.03(A), the requirement shall be measured
by following a straight line from the outer property line of the permanent or
temporary residence of the designated offender to the nearest outer property
line of the school, child care facility, private playground, public park, or
public playground.
   (C)   Official map. The City Clerk shall maintain an official map showing
prohibited locations as defined by this chapter. The Clerk shall update the map
at least annually to reflect any changes in the location of prohibited zones.
The map shall not be deemed conclusive or all encompassing, or relieve any
person subject to this ordinance from their duty to comply with the
prohibitions herein, since prohibited zones change from time to time.
(Ord. 1608, passed 12-13-16)
§ 99.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   A designated offender residing within the prohibited area as described in §
99.03 (A) does not commit a violation of that Section if any of the following
apply:
   (A)   The designated offender established a permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S § 243.166
and 243.167 or a successor statute, prior to the effective date of this
ordinance December 13, 2016.
   (B)   The designated offender was a minor when he or she committed the
offense and he or she was not convicted as an adult.
   (C)   The designated offender is a minor.
   (D)   The school, licensed child care facility, private playground, public
park, public playground within 2,000 feet of the designated offender's
permanent residence or temporary residence was opened after the designated
offender established the permanent residence or temporary residence and
reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167
or a successor statute.
   (E)   The designated offender's permanent residence or temporary residence
is also the primary residence of the designated offender's parent(s),
grandparent(s), sibling(s), spouse, or child(ren).
(Ord. 1608, passed 12-13-16)
§ 99.05 PROHIBITION AGAINST RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO CERTAIN DESIGNATED
OFFENDERS AND ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure, or part thereof,
with the knowledge that it will be used as a permanent residence or temporary
residence by any person prohibited from establishing such permanent residence
or temporary residence pursuant to this chapter, if such place, structure, or
part thereof, is located within a prohibited location zone described in §
99.03(A).
   (B)   A violation of this section shall subject the violator to the code
enforcement provisions and procedures as provided for in Chapter 38 of the City
Code, but shall not be exclusive of any other remedies available under any
applicable federal, state or local law and it is within the discretion of the
City of St. Michael to seek cumulative remedies.
§ 99.06 SEVERABILITY.
   Should any section, subdivision, clause or other provision of this chapter
be held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole, or of any part
thereof, other than the part held to be invalid.
(Ord. 1608, passed 12-13-16)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $1,000 or by confinement for a term not
exceeding 90 days, or by both such fine and confinement. Each day a designated
offender maintains a permanent or temporary residence in violation of this
chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 1608, passed 12-13-16)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   GAMBLING AND BINGO
      
114.   FIREWORKS SALES
      
115.   PAWN SHOPS
      
116.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
      
117.    LIMITATION ON ALLOWED CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 110: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
3.2 Malt Liquor
   
110.01   Definition
   
110.02   Licenses
   
110.03   Conditions of license
Intoxicating Liquor
   
110.15   Definition
   
110.16   Licenses
   
110.17   Adoption of state law by reference
   
110.18   On-sale Sunday sales
   
110.19   Restricted hours on purchase and consumption
   
110.20   Consumption and possession on public property
   
110.21   Revocation; suspension; fine
Licensing and Regulating the Sale of Wine
   
110.30   State law adopted
   
110.31   Wine licenses
   
110.32   Application for license
   
110.33   License fees
   
110.34   Granting of licenses
   
110.35   Persons ineligible for license
   
110.36   Places ineligible for license
   
110.37   Conditions of license
   
110.38   Suspension and revocation
3.2 MALT LIQUOR
§ 110.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER or 3.2 MALT LIQUOR. Any potable malt beverage with an alcoholic content
of more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume, and not more than 3.2% of alcohol by
weight.
(Ord. 2, passed 3-24-50)
§ 110.02 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell, deal in, or keep for sale any
3.2 malt liquor without first securing a license therefor. Licensing shall be
for “on sale” or “off sale.”
   (B)   Applications. Application for a license shall be made to the City
Administrator, accompanied by the required annual fee for the license, the fee
to be refunded if the license is not granted.
   (C)    Fees. Fees for licenses shall be as determined by the City Council
from time to time.
   (D)   Term. All licenses shall expire on June 30 each year.
(Ord. 2, passed 3-24-50) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 110.03 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for sale to any licensee who has been
convicted of a felony or of violating any law of the state relating to the
manufacture, sale, or transporting of intoxicating liquors.
   (B)   Licenses may be revoked by the Council without showing cause, and
without notice to the licensee. Revocation shall not entitle the licensee to
repayment of the license fee.
(Ord. 2, passed 3-24-50)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 110.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR or LIQUOR. Includes ethyl alcohol and any distilled,
fermented, spirituous, vinous, or malt liquor of any kind, potable as a
beverage, containing 3.2% or more of alcohol by volume, and shall also include
and mean liquor of any kind potable as a beverage which is in fact
intoxicating.
(Ord. 2, passed 3-24-50)
§ 110.16 LICENSES.
   (A)   License required. It shall be unlawful for any person to sell,
manufacture, give away, dispose of, furnish, possess, transport, or have in
possession for sale intoxicating liquor unless a license therefor has been
secured as provided by state law, and in accord with this subchapter.
   (B)   Fees. Applications shall be accompanied by the required fee for the
license to the City Administrator, with the fee to be refunded if the license
is not granted. Fees shall be determined by the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   Term. All licenses shall expire on June 30 each year.
   (D)   Granting license. The Council shall cause an investigation to be made
of all facts set forth in the application, and after the investigation may
grant or refuse the license in its discretion.
(Ord. 2, passed 3-24-50) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 110.17 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this code as if set out in full. Except as
established by state law, the city shall by ordinance establish all fees for
licenses.
§ 110.18 ON-SALE SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   A restaurant, club, bowling center or hotel with a seating capacity of
at least 30 persons and which holds a license to sell on-sale intoxicating
liquor on Sundays may sell intoxicating liquor for consumption on the premises
in conjunction with the sale of food between the hours of 8:00 a.m. on Sundays
and 2:00 a.m. on Mondays, provided the licensee is in conformance with the
Minnesota Clean Air Act.
   (B)   An off-sale licensee may sell intoxicating liquor on Sundays between
the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. However, no delivery of alcohol to an
off-sale licensee may be made by a wholesaler or accepted by an off-sale
licensee on a Sunday. Also, no order solicitation or merchandising may be made
by a wholesaler on a Sunday.
(Ord. 0308, passed 7-22-03; Am. Ord. 1702, passed 7-1-17)
§ 110.19 RESTRICTED HOURS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Hours of operation. The hours of operation and days of sale shall be
those set by M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Restricted hours of operation.  
      (1)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee allow any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premise more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
      (2)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other
container containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
      (3)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain
on the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a
sale can legally occur, unless the on-sale licensed premises includes a
secondary function of hospitality or recreational business.
   (C)   Violations. Anyone, including the licensee, patrons of the licensee,
or employees of the licensee who violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Any licensee in whose establishment a violation of this section
occurs is guilty of a misdemeanor. Any employee who allows a patron to remain
on the licensed premises in violation of this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 0604, passed 6-13-06; Am. Ord. 0903, passed 10-27-09)
§ 110.20 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
   (A)   Consumption.
      (1)   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on
any public sidewalk or street in any non-residential or non-agricultural zoning
district, or in a vehicle upon a public street.
      (2)   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in
any public parking lot without City Council approval.
   (B)   Possession. No person shall have in his or her possession intoxicating
liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an open container on any public sidewalk or
public street in any non-residential or non-agricultural zoning district.
(Ord. 0903, passed 10-27-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.21 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION; FINE.
   (A)   (1)   Upon a finding that the licensee of any license granted pursuant
to this chapter has failed to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter
or with any applicable state law, or other regulation or ordinance relating to
an alcoholic beverage, the city may either suspend the license for a period not
to exceed 60 days, revoke the license, or impose a civil fine on the licensee
not to exceed $2,000 for each violation, or some combination thereof.
      (2)   The civil penalty and/or suspension and revocation imposed pursuant
to this section shall be based on the licensee’s total number of violations at
the specific location at which the violation occurred within the preceding 24-
month period for participants in the Best Practices Program and 36-month period
for non-participants in the Best Practices Program as follows:
 
                           Best Practices             Best Practices Non-
                           Participants Grid          Participants Grid
First Violation            $250                       $750
Second Violation           $500                       $1,500, plus a three-day
                                                      suspension of license
Third Violation            $1,500, plus a two-day     $2,000, plus a ten-day
                           suspension of license      suspension of license
                           $2,000, plus a suspension
                           of not less than five days
Fourth Violation           but no more than 60 days   Revocation
                           or revocation as
                           determined by the City
                           Council
Penalty Calculation Period ...within the preceding    ...within the preceding
                           24-month period...         36-month period...
 
      (3)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city may impose a fine,
suspension or revocation that varies from the above schedule for any violation
it determines, through the hearing specified below, was of a seriousness that
justifies a departure from the schedule.
      (4)   No fine shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity of a hearing. Such hearing shall be called by the Council upon
written notice to the licensee served in person or by certified mail not less
than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing date, stating the time,
place and purpose thereof. No suspension or revocation of a license shall take
effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.415.
   (B)   Suspensions will commence on the same day of the week as the
occurrence of the violation. Unless specified, numbers indicate consecutive
days’ suspension during regular business hours.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city, county or other
authorized entity from seeking prosecution as a petty misdemeanor, misdemeanor,
or gross misdemeanor for any violation of this section.
(Ord. 0604, passed 6-13-06; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 0903,
passed 10-27-09)
LICENSING AND REGULATING THE SALE OF WINE
§ 110.30 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, relating to the definition of terms,
licensing, consumption, sales, conditions of bond of licensees, hours of sale,
and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and
consumption of intoxicating liquor insofar as they are applicable to wine
licenses authorizing the sale of wine not exceeding 14% by volume for
consumption on the licensed premises only, in conjunction with the sale of
food, are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99)
§ 110.31 WINE LICENSES.
   (A)   No person, except a wholesaler or manufacturer to the extent
authorized under a state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell,
or keep for sale in the city any wine without an on-sale wine license. An on-
sale wine license authorizes the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by
volume, for consumption on the licensed premises only, in conjunction with the
sale of food. An on-sale wine license may be issued only to a restaurant having
facilities for seating not fewer than 25 guests at one time. For purposes of
this subchapter, a restaurant means an establishment, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, having appropriate facilities for serving meals,
and where, in consideration of payment thereof, meals are regularly served at
tables to the general public, and which employs an adequate staff to provide
the usual and suitable service to its guests.
   (B)   Any person with an on-sale wine license and on sale 3.2 beer license,
as detailed in §§
110.01 through
110.03 of this chapter, shall be eligible for a strong beer/wine license, and
may serve intoxicating malt liquor on the premises.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99; Am. Ord. 1702, passed 7-1-17)
§ 110.32 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for an on sale wine license shall state the
applicant’s name, age, citizenship or resident alien status, and
representations as to the applicant’s character, with such reference as the
City Council may require. The application shall also state the restaurant in
connection with which the proposed license will operate, its location, whether
the applicant is owner and operator of the restaurant, how long the applicant
has been in the restaurant business at that location, and such other
information as the City Council may require from time to time. The application
shall be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall
be verified and filed with the City Clerk. No person shall make a false
statement in an application.
   (B)   Bond. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a surety
bond or, in lieu thereof, cash or United States Government bonds of equivalent
market value as provided by M.S. § 340A.412, Subd. 1. The surety bond or other
security shall be in the sum of $3,000 for an application for an on sale wine
license.
   (C)   Proof of financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of a wine
license, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility as
defined in M.S. § 340A.409 with reference to liability under M.S. § 340A.801.
Such proof shall be filed with the Commissioner of Public Safety except that if
a license involves sales of wine by a prospective vendor who is not required by
law to file such proof with the Commissioner of Public Safety, such proof shall
be filed with the City Clerk. Any liability insurance filed as proof of
financial responsibility under this subdivision shall conform to M.S. §
340A.409.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99)
§ 110.33 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Amount. The annual fee for a wine license is $150. The annual fee for
the strong beer/wine license shall be determined by the City Council from time
to time.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a wine license shall be accompanied by a
receipt by the City Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee. If an
application for a license is rejected, the City Treasurer shall refund the
amount paid.
   (C)   Term; pro-rata fee. Each license shall be issued for a period of one
year, except if the application is made during the license year, a license may
be issued for the remainder of the year for a pro-rata fee, with any unexpired
fraction of a month being counted as one month. Every license shall expire on
the last day of June.
   (D)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made except as authorized by
statute.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99; Am. Ord. 1702, passed 7-1-17)
§ 110.34 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application. Opportunity shall be given to any person to
be heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation
and hearing, the City Council may grant or refuse the application. No wine
license shall become effective until the license and the security furnished by
the applicant have been approved by the State Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   Person and premises license; transfer. Each license shall be issued
for the applicant only and shall not be transferrable to another holder. Each
license shall be issued only for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another place without approval of the City
Council. Any transfer of the stock of a corporate licensee is deemed a transfer
of the license and a transfer of stock without prior City Council approval is
grounds for revocation of the license.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99)
§ 110.35 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No wine license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for such
license by state law.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99; Am. Ord. 0604, passed 6-13-06)
§ 110.36 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No wine license shall be issued for any
restaurant ineligible for such license under state law.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments, or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99)
§ 110.37 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license is subject to the conditions of the following subdivisions and
all other provisions of this subchapter and any other applicable ordinance,
state law or regulation.
   (A)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee, except as otherwise
provided by M.S. § 340A.501, is responsible for the conduct in the licensed
establishment. Any sale of alcoholic beverages by any employee authorized to
sell such beverages in the establishment is the act of the licensee.
   (B)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect, and search the premises of the licensee during business hours without
a warrant.
   (C)   Display during prohibited hours. No licensee shall display wine to the
public during the hours when the sale of wine is prohibited.
   (D)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealers tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99; Am. Ord. 0604, passed 6-13-06) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 110.38 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall either suspend for up to 50 days or revoke any
on sale wine license or impose a civil fine not to exceed $2000 for each
violation upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation, or ordinance relating to alcoholic beverages.
Except in cases of failure of financial responsibility, no suspension or
revocation will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity
for a hearing pursuant to M.S. § 14.57 to 14.69 of the Administrative
Procedures Act.
   (B)   Lapse of required dram shop insurance or bond, or withdrawal of the
required deposit of cash or securities, shall affect an immediate suspension of
any license issued pursuant to this subchapter without further action of the
City Council. Notice of cancellation, lapse of a current liability policy or
bond, or withdrawal of deposit of cash or security shall also constitute notice
to the licensee of the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a
license who has received notice of lapse of required insurance or bond, or
withdrawal of a required deposit, or a suspension or revocation of a license,
may request a hearing thereon and if such a request is made in writing to the
City Clerk, a hearing shall be granted within ten days or such longer period as
may be requested. Any suspension under this division shall continue until the
City Council determines that the financial responsibility requirement of this
subchapter has again been met.
(Ord. 122, passed 3-23-99)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Carnivals, circuses, and the like
§ 111.01 CARNIVALS, CIRCUSES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT RIDE. Any mechanized device or combination of devices which
carries passengers along the ground or over a fixed or restricted course for
the purpose of giving its passengers amusement, pleasure, thrills, or
excitement.
   CARNIVAL or CIRCUS. A travelling commercial entertainment with sideshows,
rides, and games.
   (B)   Permits.
      (1)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to present or
operate within the city any carnival, circus, or similar enterprise without
first having obtained a permit therefor from the city and paying a fee therefor
as set from time to time by the city.
      (2)   Issuance. No permit shall be issued until the proper application
has been completed, the fee or fees paid, and, where applicable, insurance
provided. A copy of all insurance policies or certificates must be deposited
with the city and must contain a provision that the city will be notified in
writing at least ten days in advance of any cancellation or change in coverage.
      (3)   Deposit. A clean-up and damage deposit as set from time to time by
the City Council is required. The deposit is refundable after inspection by the
City Administrator.
   (C)   Insurance.
      (1)   Generally. Before the permit is issued, proof of insurance insuring
the operator against liability for injury, death and property damage suffered
by a person attending the carnival shall be provided to the city. Before the
permit shall be issued, the operator shall agree to hold the city harmless and
shall agree to defend and indemnify the city, and the city’s employees and
agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to the operation
of the carnival, circus or amusement ride. The city shall be named as an
additional insured under that insurance. The operator’s contract of insurance
shall be the primary insurance for the city and the operator or insurance
company shall provide a certificate of insurance which verifies the existence
of the insurance required, including provisions to hold the city harmless and
defend and indemnify the city. The insurance shall provide coverage up to
$300,000 for any single claim and $1,000,000 for any number of claims in a
single occurrence.
      (2)   Products liability insurance. The applicant shall provide products
liability insurance in the amount of $300,000 if any food or drink is served
upon the premises.
   (D)   Penalties. Any person who operates an amusement device, ride,
concession booth, or related electrical equipment at any enterprise covered
hereby without first having obtained a permit from the city or who violates any
provision hereof is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-14-81) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
Franchises
   
112.10   Granting of franchise; exclusivity
   
112.11   Term and renewal
   
112.12   Sale or transfer
   
112.13   Acquisition of system by city
   
112.14   Eminent domain
   
112.15   Compliance with laws and regulations
   
112.16   Fee
   
112.17   Financial reports and audits
   
112.18   Termination of franchise
   
112.19   Review and renegotiation
   
112.20   System modification
Construction, Operation, and Maintenance
   
112.30   Authorization to commence construction
   
112.31   Indemnification
   
112.32   Bond
   
112.33   Relocation of equipment
   
112.34   Liability for injury to grantee’s facilities
   
112.35   Protection of public safety and commerce
   
112.36   Pole usage
   
112.37   Construction schedule
   
112.38   Removal of equipment
Rates
   
112.50   Rate schedule
   
112.51   Rate change procedure
Service
   
112.60   System design and auxiliary services
   
112.61   Technical standards
   
112.62   Subscriber privacy
   
112.63   Service rules
   
112.64   Service policies
   
112.65   Repairs and complaints
   
112.98   Violations
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The city of St. Michael, Minnesota.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   GRANTEE. The holder of a cable television franchise issued by the City of
St. Michael.
   GROSS BASIC SUBSCRIBER REVENUE. All income derived from the provision of
basic cable services to any subscriber within the city limits.
   MAY. Allows discretion.
   SHALL. Always mandatory.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who has a contract with the grantee for cable
services.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
FRANCHISES
§ 112.10 GRANTING OF FRANCHISE; EXCLUSIVITY.
   The City Council may, upon majority vote, grant a franchise to any competent
applicant. Any such franchise granted by the city shall be non-exclusive.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.11 TERM AND RENEWAL.
   All franchises shall have an initial term of 15 years and any renewal shall
be for a period of not more than five years. Renegotiation of any or all terms
of the franchise may occur at such times as may be mutually agreed upon by the
city and the grantee. Such renegotiation shall occur at least at the end of the
initial franchise term, unless the city determines not to reissue the franchise
to the grantee or desires to consider additional applicants for a franchise.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.12 SALE OR TRANSFER.
   Sale or transfer of the franchise or sale or transfer of stock so as to
create a new controlling interest shall be prohibited unless approved by the
city, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.13 ACQUISITION OF SYSTEM BY CITY.
   Upon expiration of the franchise term or termination of the franchise as
provided in this chapter or upon receipt of an application from the grantee for
approval of an assignment or transfer of the franchise, the city shall have the
right to purchase the system of the grantee. In the event the city seeks to
exercise its right to purchase, the purchase price shall be the price which any
proposed assignee or transferee agreed to pay or the fair market value of the
system as a going concern, whichever is less, payable on such terms as the
grantee and city may agree. If the purchase price or the fair market value of
the system cannot be agreed upon, the city and the grantee agree to submit the
determination of the purchase price or fair market value to binding
arbitration. The city and the grantee shall each choose one arbitrator, and the
two arbitrators shall choose a third. If the choice of the third arbitrator
cannot be agreed upon or a price determination is not made by arbitration, the
purchase price or fair market value of the system shall be decided by the
District Court of the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.14 EMINENT DOMAIN.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to preclude or limit the
authority, if any, of the city to acquire any property of the grantee by
eminent domain proceedings.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.15 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The grantee shall conform to all federal laws and regulations regarding
cable communications not later than one year after they become effective or
sooner if so required by the applicable law or regulation and shall conform to
all state laws, city codes, ordinances, and regulations with the exception of
the rules of the Minnesota Cable Communications Board created by the provisions
of M.S. § 238.04 as it may be amended from time to time, from which the city
has exempted itself by prior actions.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.16 FEE.
   To reimburse the city for its expense in administering the franchise, the
grantee shall pay an annual fee to the city equal to 3% of the grantee’s gross
basic subscriber revenues and advertising revenues from the supplying of
services to subscribers within the corporate limits of the city. The fee shall
be calculated on a calendar year basis and shall be paid on or before March 1
following the year for which it is payable. The fee provided for in this
section may be adjusted by the city from time to time, provided the schedule of
maximum rates for basic cable service is adjusted to reflect the change.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.17 FINANCIAL REPORTS AND AUDITS.
   The grantee shall file financial reports concerning the gross annual basic
subscriber revenues realized by its operations within the authorized area
annually with the city as soon as available after the close of its fiscal year.
The financial reports shall include a balance sheet, a statement of operations,
and any other information the city deems appropriate. The city may audit the
grantee’s accounting and financial records at any time upon reasonable notice.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.18 TERMINATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Subject to the procedural requirements set forth below, the city may
terminate and cancel this franchise and all rights and privileges of the
grantee hereunder in the event the grantee does any of the following:
      (1)   Substantially violates any provision of or defaults in the
performance of any of its obligations under this franchise or any valid rule,
order, or determination of the city;
      (2)   Attempts to evade any of the provisions of this franchise or
practices any fraud or deceit upon the city;
      (3)   Files a petition or is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent under the
Bankruptcy Act or any other insolvency or creditors’ rights law, state or
federal.
   (B)   The city shall provide the grantee a written notice of the cause for
termination and its intention to terminate the franchise. Such written notice
shall allow the grantee a reasonable period of time, not less than 30 days
after receipt of the notice by any corporate officer or resident manager of the
grantee by certified mail or personal service, in which to eliminate or remedy
the stated cause for termination. If the grantee begins and pursues with due
diligence its efforts to eliminate or remedy the stated cause for termination
but such cause cannot be eliminated or remedied within the period of time
specified by the city, then such period of time shall be extended as necessary
to enable the grantee to begin and complete its corrective action through the
exercise of due diligence.
   (C)   If the grantee fails to eliminate or remedy the stated cause for
termination within the reasonable time specified or extended and the city
determines to proceed with its intention to terminate the franchise, the
grantee shall be provided with an opportunity to be heard at a public hearing
prior to the termination of the franchise.
   (D)   In the event the city determines to terminate the franchise it shall
set forth its findings, conclusions, and determination to terminate the
franchise in a written resolution.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.19 REVIEW AND RENEGOTIATION.
   The field of cable communications is a relatively new and changing industry
which will no doubt see many regulatory, technical, financial, and legal
changes during the term of the franchise agreement. Therefore, in order to
provide for a maximum degree of flexibility in this franchise, and to help
achieve a continued advanced and modern system, the following renegotiation
provision shall apply:
   (A)   The city may require, at its sole discretion, system performance
evaluation sessions at any time during the term of this franchise or as
required by federal law.
   (B)   All evaluation sessions shall be open to the public and notice of
sessions shall be published in the same way as a legal notice. Grantee shall
notify its subscribers of all evaluation sessions by announcement on at least
two channels of the system between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m. for
five consecutive days preceding each session.
   (C)   Topics to be discussed at any evaluation session may include rate
structure, franchise fee, free or discounted services, application of new
technologies, system performance, programming content, services, access,
customer complaints, judicial and FCC rulings, and amendments to the franchise
or any other relevant topic.
   (D)   The grantee shall fully cooperate with the city and shall provide
without cost such information and documents as the city may request to
reasonably perform the evaluation.
   (E)   (1)   If the city determines that reasonable evidence exists of
inadequate system performance, it may require grantee to perform tests directed
toward diagnosis and remedy of such suspected inadequacies at the grantee’s
expense. Grantee shall fully cooperate with the city in performing such testing
and shall compile the results and prepare a written report, if requested by the
city, within 30 days after notice.
      (2)   The city may require that such tests be supervised by a consultant
designated by the city at the grantee’s expense. The consultant shall sign all
records of special tests and shall forward to the city such records with a
report interpreting the results of the tests and recommending actions to be
taken. If the testing reveals the difficulties to be caused by factors which
are beyond the grantee’s control, the cost of testing shall be borne by the
city.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.20 SYSTEM MODIFICATION.
   (A)   As a result of a periodic review or evaluation session the city may
request that the grantee modify the system or provide additional services. The
grantee will comply with such requests by the city unless technology does not
permit it or the grantee establishes to the satisfaction of the city that the
cost would prohibit the implementation of the modification or additional
services.
   (B)   The city may, at its own discretion, allow a special rate increase to
be charged by the grantee in order to secure the additional services or
modifications deemed inappropriate because of cost. The amount and effective
date of the special rate increase shall be as mutually agreed upon by the city
and the grantee.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
CONSTRUCTION, OPERATION, AND MAINTENANCE
§ 112.30 AUTHORIZATION TO COMMENCE CONSTRUCTION.
   The grantee shall obtain a permit from the proper municipal authority before
commencing construction of the system, including the opening or disturbance of
any street, sidewalk, driveway, or public place, and shall restore all property
of the city and of the inhabitants thereof to its original condition after the
installation of either aerial or underground cable or other construction work.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.31 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The grantee shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend the city, its
officers, and employees against and from any and all claims, lawsuits,
proceedings, damages, costs, or liabilities arising out of the construction,
operation, or maintenance of the cable system. The city and its officers and
employees shall give the grantee prompt written notice of any claims filed
against them in connection herewith.
   (B)   The grantee shall maintain in full force and effect during the term of
this franchise a policy or policies of insurance with a financially responsible
insurance company or companies, copies of which shall be filed with the city,
providing comprehensive general liability coverage with the city, its officers,
and employees named as additional insured. The policy or policies shall
maintain at least the general liability limits being carried by the city, as
these limits now exist or as they may hereafter be amended or modified,
insuring both the city and the grantee with regard to all damages and penalties
which they may be legally required to pay as a result of the exercise of the
franchise and the construction, maintenance, or operation of the system.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.32 BOND.
   Prior to commencement of construction, the grantee shall furnish a bond to
the city equal to 125% of the construction costs; the bond shall be reduced to
25% of the construction costs after system turn-on, to remain in full force for
the term of the franchise with acceptable surety conditioned upon the faithful
performance by the grantee according to the terms of the franchise and upon the
further condition that, in the event the grantee shall fail to comply with any
law, ordinance, code provision, or regulation governing the franchise, there
shall be recoverable jointly and severally from the grantee and surety of the
bond any damages or loss suffered by the city, including the full amount of any
compensation, indemnification, or cost of removal or abandonment of any
property of the grantee plus a reasonable allowance for attorney fees and
costs, up to the full amount of the bond, and further guaranteeing payment by
the grantee of claims, liens, and taxes due to the city which arise by reason
of the construction, operation, or maintenance of the system. The rights
reserved by the city with respect to the bond are in addition to all other
rights the city may have under the franchise or any other law. The city may,
from year to year and at its sole discretion, reduce the amount of the
performance bond.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 54, passed 9-13-83)
§ 112.33 RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT.
   Whenever the city deems it to be in the public interest to relocate or
remove any of the grantee’s cables, conduits, and/or other equipment located
within the corporate limits of the city, the equipment shall forthwith be
relocated at the grantee’s own expense.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.34 LIABILITY FOR INJURY TO GRANTEE’S FACILITIES.
   Nothing in the franchise shall relieve any person from liability arising out
of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the grantee’s
facilities while performing any work connected with grading, regrading, or
changing the line of any street or public place or with the construction or
reconstruction of any sewer or water system.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.35 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND COMMERCE.
   The grantee shall keep and maintain all of its property so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic, or travel
upon the streets and public places of the franchise area or endanger the lives
or property of any person.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.36 POLE USAGE.
   The grantee shall use the existing poles, conduits, trenches, ducts, lines,
and cables owned by other holders of public licenses and franchises within the
corporate limits of the city whenever possible for the installation of its
cable. When installation of cable on poles is not possible, when both major
utilities have installed underground cable, or when the city shall otherwise
decide, the cable used by the grantee shall be installed underground at its
expense.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.37 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   Within 90 days of the granting of the franchise, the grantee shall apply for
all necessary permits, licenses, and authorizations required by law. Energized
trunk cable shall be extended substantially throughout the authorized area
within one year after their receipt and persons along the route of the
energized cable shall have individual service connections as desired during the
same period of time. The requirements of this provision may be waived by the
city only upon occurrence of unforeseen events or acts of God.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.38 REMOVAL OF EQUIPMENT.
   Upon expiration or other termination of the franchise, the grantee may
remove, and upon demand of the city shall remove, its cable system from the
streets and poles and restore same within one year after the date of expiration
or termination. Upon the failure of the grantee to remove its system from the
streets and poles after demand by the city, the city may remove the system and
restore the streets and poles with its own employees and equipment or may
contract for the removal of same and the grantee shall forthwith pay the city
the cost and expense thereof.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
RATES
§ 112.50 RATE SCHEDULE.
   The grantee shall establish and adhere to the rate schedule proposed to and
accepted by the city, which shall be included in the final franchise agreement
signed by both the city and the grantee.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.51 RATE CHANGE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The grantee may from time to time change its subscriber rates so as to
ensure a fair and reasonable return on its investment as provided herein. A
written application setting forth the proposed increase must be filed with the
city at least 90 days prior to its proposed effective date.
   (B)   Such an application to the city for a rate increase shall be
accompanied by such financial statements, pro forma projections showing the
effect of the proposed increase, statements of fact, and such other documents
and exhibits as are necessary to substantiate the need for the rate increase
requested. The city may require the grantee to provide any information it feels
pertinent to its evaluation of the application.
   (C)   After affording reasonable notice, the city shall hold a public
hearing providing an opportunity for all persons to be heard. If following said
hearing the city denies the proposed rate increase, the pre-existing rate shall
remain in effect. Should the city approve the rate increase or a reduced rate
increase, the rate shall take effect from the first day of the month following
the date of the city’s determination. If, however, the city takes no action to
approve, deny, or adjust the proposed rate increase within 90 days of the
grantee’s application for a rate increase, the proposed increase shall go into
effect as if the city had issued its approval.
   (D)   The grantee may appeal a denial of all or a portion of any proposed
rate increase to the District Court of the State of Minnesota, the procedure
upon appeal being governed by the Minnesota Rules of Civil Procedure. A notice
of appeal must be served upon the City Administrator within 30 days of the
denial.
   (E)   In the event the District Court determines the city’s action in
denying the requested rate increase was arbitrary or not supported by the
preponderance of the evidence, the District Court may return the matter to the
City Council for reconsideration.
   (F)   In the event the Court upholds the city’s rate determination, the
grantee shall pay all of the city’s expenses, including reasonable attorney
fees, incurred in defending the appeal.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
SERVICE
§ 112.60 SYSTEM DESIGN AND AUXILIARY SERVICES.
   (A)   The grantee shall maintain its cable system with a minimum of 300 MHz
of band width available for immediate and future use, and the system shall have
the technical capability for two-way return communications.
   (B)   The proposal submitted to the city to provide cable services by the
grantee shall be incorporated into the franchise and made a part thereof. All
aspects of the proposal pertaining to system design and services accepted and
approved by the city shall be provided. The following additional services shall
be provided:
      (1)   (a)   To the extent of the system’s available channel capacity, the
grantee shall provide to each of its subscribers who receive all or any part of
the total services offered, reception on at least one specially designated
public access channel. The public access channel shall be available for use by
the general public, local educational authorities, and the city on a first
come, non-discriminatory basis. No charge shall be made for channel time or
playback of prerecorded programming on the public access channel. Charges for
production costs and any fees shall be consistent with the goal of providing
the city, the public, and local educational authorities a low cost means of
television access. Any fee to be charged shall be as set forth in the grantee’s
rate schedule as established in the franchise agreement.
         (b)   Whenever the specially designated access channel is in use 80%
of the weekdays or 80% of the time during any three-hour period for six weeks
running, the grantee shall provide an additional channel designated for access
use. The grantee shall have six months to provide the additional channel
provided the new channel or channels shall not require the grantee to change
converters.
      (2)   The grantee shall make readily available for public use at least
the minimum equipment necessary for the production and playback of programming
and the playback of prerecorded programming for the specially designated access
channel. The equipment provided by the grantee shall also make it possible to
record programs at remote locations.
      (3)   The grantee shall provide an emergency access audio override system
for the use of the city, civil defense authorities, and local educational
authorities. In the case of any declared emergency or disaster the grantee
shall make its facilities available to the city for reasonable emergency use.
      (4)   The grantee shall provide a return line for the access channel from
an accessible point within the franchise area, preferably the high school, City
Hall, or both.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.61 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The rules of the FCC relating to cable communications contained in
Subpart K of Part 76 of the FCC’s rules and regulations (47 CFR Part 76,
Subpart K), are hereby incorporated into this franchise by reference. The
results of any tests required by the FCC shall be filed with the city within
ten days of the completion of such tests.
   (B)   The system shall deliver to the subscriber a signal that is capable of
producing a black and white or color picture without visual material
degradation in quality within the limitations imposed by the technical state of
the art.
   (C)   The system shall transmit or distribute signals without causing
objectionable cross- modulation in the cable or interfering with other
electrical or electronic networks or with the reception of other television or
radio receivers in the area not connected to the cable system.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.62 SUBSCRIBER PRIVACY.
   No signals of a cable channel may be transmitted from a subscriber terminal
for purposes of monitoring individual viewing patterns or practices without the
express written permission of the subscriber. The request for such permission
shall be contained in a separate document with a prominent statement that the
subscriber is authorizing the permission with full knowledge of its provisions.
The authorization may be revokable at any time by the subscriber without
penalty and no penalty shall be invoked for a subscriber’s failure to approve
or renew such authorization.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.63 SERVICE RULES.
   The grantee shall have the right to prescribe reasonable service rules for
the conduct of its business and its customer relations not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter. A copy of such rules and all additions,
deletions, and amendments thereto shall be kept on file with the city
throughout the life of the franchise.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.64 SERVICE POLICIES.
   (A)   The grantee shall extend cable service to any isolated residence at
the standard installation rate if: the service connection to the isolated
residence would require no more than a 200 foot drop line from an existing
cable; and the resident requests the service extension.
   (B)   Any isolated residence requiring more than a 200 foot drop line from
an existing cable shall be charged a premium installation rate. The premium
installation rate shall be the standard installation rate plus the actual cost
to the grantee for the distance in excess of 200 feet.
   (C)   The grantee shall extend cable service to any new development or group
of residences at the standard rate if the development or group of residences to
be served has a density of at least 30 homes per cable mile and at least 50 of
the residences to be served have requested service. Any development or group of
residences not meeting the above requirements may be served at the grantee’s
discretion upon such contractual terms as the grantee and developers or
landowners may agree.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.65 REPAIRS AND COMPLAINTS.
   (A)   (1)   The grantee shall provide a toll-free telephone number for
subscriber complaints and shall maintain a repair service capable of responding
to subscriber complaints or requests for service within 24 hours after receipt
of the complaint or request for service.
      (2)   All complaints by the city, subscribers, or other citizens
regarding the quality of service, equipment malfunction, billing disputes, and
any other matters relative to the cable system shall be investigated by the
grantee within 24 hours. The grantee shall rectify the cause of the complaint
if reasonably possible. If a subscriber or citizen complaint is not resolved
within ten working days the complainant may then file the complaint with the
city. After consideration of the complaint and a finding that the grantee is at
fault, the city may enact the provisions for termination of the franchise.
   (B)   Whenever it is necessary to shut off or interrupt services for the
purpose of making repairs, adjustments, or installations, the grantee shall do
so during periods of minimum use by subscribers. Unless such interruption is
unforeseen, the grantee shall give reasonable notice thereof to the subscribers
affected.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
§ 112.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall construct, operate, or maintain a cable communications
system under, over, along, or across any street in the city for profit unless a
franchise for such system and use of the streets has first been obtained and is
in full force and effect.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally deprive the grantee of
a lawful charge for cable television service by making, using, or attempting to
make or use an unauthorized connection to the cable system whether physical,
electrical, acoustical, inductive or any other type of connection, or attaching
any unauthorized device to any cable, wire, microwave, or other component of a
franchised cable communications system.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally tamper with, remove, or
injure any cable, wire, or other component of a franchised cable system or to
intentionally and without claim of right interrupt a service of said system.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83) Penalty, see
§ 112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of §
112.98 is punishable as a misdemeanor and as provided in §
10.99.
(Ord. 51, passed 4-12-83)
CHAPTER 113: GAMBLING AND BINGO
Section
   
113.01   Adoption of state law
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Lawful gambling
   
113.04   License investigation fee
   
113.05   Regulations
§ 113.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   M.S. Chapter 349 and the Rules adopted pursuant to the authority contained
in the Statutes relating to lawful gambling, as they may be amended from time
to time, are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-12-92)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   The terms used in this chapter and defined in M.S. §§ 349.11 through
349.22 and defined in the Rules adopted pursuant to the authority contained in
those Statutes shall have the meanings set forth in those Statutes and Rules,
as the same may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GAMBLING. Any activity or device prohibited by M.S. §§ 609.75, 609.755, and
609.76, as they may be amended from time to time, and shall further include any
activity, event, or contrivance that simulates any such activity or device when
in or on any commercial establishment or property, except as otherwise allowed
pursuant to city ordinance or code provision or Minnesota Statutes or Rules
adopted pursuant to authority contained therein. Prohibited gambling and
gambling situations include, but are not limited to, sports bookmaking, poker,
blackjack, slot machines, and other similar activities, events, and
contrivances normally associated with gambling and gambling locations.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-12-92)
§ 113.03 LAWFUL GAMBLING.
   (A)   There shall be no gambling in the city except bingo, raffle games, and
pull-tabs duly licensed or otherwise allowed pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter, M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22, and Rules adopted pursuant to the
authority contained in the Statutes, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No city permit shall be required for the conduct of gambling exempt
from licensing under M.S. § 349.166 as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)    Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to be an automatic approval
of a license applied for with the Charitable Gambling Control Board. The city
reserves the right to disapprove licenses for individual bingo occasions,
raffle games, and pull-tab distributions.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-12-92) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; gambling houses, see
§ 91.17
§ 113.04 LICENSE INVESTIGATION FEE.
   An organization applying for or renewing a license to conduct lawful
gambling or to operate a bingo hall must pay to the city an investigation fee
in the amount of $100.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-12-92)
§ 113.05 REGULATIONS.
   In addition to the requirements of M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.22 and rules
adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the Statutes, as they may be
amended from time to time, lawful gambling shall be subject to the regulations
set forth in the following subdivisions:
   (A)   It is unlawful to make side bets or other wagers in connection with
the conduct of lawful gambling.
   (B)   A bingo or raffle game duly licensed or otherwise allowed pursuant to
this chapter may only be conducted or operated by members of the licensed
organization who are 18 years of age or older. No member shall receive any
compensation whatsoever for his or her services in conducting, assisting in
conducting, or operating any such game, and no person shall so assist in
operating the same unless he or she shall have been and shall then be a member
or a spouse of a member in good standing in the organization for at least one
year. This subdivision shall not apply to pull-tab distributions.
   (C)   No bingo or raffle license will be approved for an organization that
also operates another bingo or raffle game in the city. No person who is under
the age of 21 years shall operate or assist in operating a pull-tab
distribution in the city.
   (D)   No license or premises permit, nor any renewal of either, will be
approved for:
      (1)   Any organization to conduct a pull-tab distribution on any premises
other than a church, the premises of a fraternal, veterans, or other non-profit
organization, or the premises for which an on- sale liquor license is currently
issued.
      (2)   Any organization or local subdivision thereof unless all the
following requirements are met:
         (a)   The organization or the local subdivision has been in continuous
existence holding meetings and conforming with the requirements of this
division (D)(2) for more than one year prior to the approval of the license;
         (b)   The organization contributes 10% of its net profits derived from
lawful gambling to a fund administered and regulated by the city, without cost
to the fund, for disbursement by the city for lawful purposes. The contribution
must be made annually prior to October 1. The city's use of such funds shall be
determined at the time of adoption of the city's budget or any amendments
thereto. For purposes of this division (b), the term NET PROFITS shall mean all
monies received from lawful gambling minus amounts spent for necessary and
statutorily allowed expenses related to the lawful gambling;
         (c)   Eighty percent of the licensee’s expenditures for lawful
purposes must be on lawful purposes conducted or located within the city’s
trade area. For purposes of this division (c), the term TRADE AREA means and
includes the area within the boundaries of the City of St. Michael and each
city and township contiguous to the City of St. Michael; and
         (d)   The organization must file with the city a copy of all
expenditure reports required to be filed with the state, and the filing with
the city must be made according to the same schedule as that required by the
state. The city may, from time to time, also require such additional reporting
as the city deems necessary.
      (3)   The conduct of a pull-tab distribution by more than one
organization on premises where such activities are authorized.
      (4)   Any one organization to conduct pull-tab distributions at more
locations than the Council deems reasonable and appropriate based on the
following factors:
         (a)   The number of locations of the type referred to in division (D)
(1) above;
         (b)   The number of applications for pull-tab distributions by other
organizations;
         (c)   The extent of the applicant's present distribution system; and
         (d)   The city's desire to prevent monopolies and promote equitable
application of this chapter.
   (E)   It is unlawful to sell, give, or otherwise transfer in the city any
raffle ticket, paddle ticket, or any other opportunity to participate in any
gambling event not approved by the city pursuant to the provisions of the
Statutes and Rules adopted by reference in §
113.01. This prohibition extends to any gambling event which would otherwise be
allowed pursuant to the exemptions set forth in M.S. § 349.166 as it may be
amended from time to time if the organization to which the exemption applies is
located outside the city.
(Ord. 80, passed 5-12-92; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08) Penalty, see
§ 10.99
CHAPTER 114: FIREWORKS SALES
Section
   
114.01   Prohibited uses
§ 114.01 PROHIBITED USES.
   Sale of fireworks in a non-permanent structure is prohibited.
(Ord. 0305, passed 4-8-03)
CHAPTER 115: PAWN SHOPS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   Application required
   
115.05   Processing of license application
   
115.06   License eligibility
   
115.07   License restriction
   
115.08   Issuance of license; conditions
   
115.09   License fees
   
115.10   Bond required
   
115.11   Records required
   
115.12   Daily reports to law enforcement
   
115.13   Receipt required
   
115.14   Redemption period
   
115.15   Holding period
   
115.16   Law enforcement order to hold property
   
115.17   Inspection of items
   
115.18   Label required
   
115.19   Prohibited acts
   
115.20   Denial, suspension or revocation
   
115.21   Business at only on place
   
115.22   Separability
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council enacts this chapter of the City Code in order to further
the following:
   (A)   The prevention of pawnshops from being used as facilities for the
commission of crime.
   (B)   The identification of criminal activities through timely collection
and sharing of pawn transaction information.
   (C)   The promulgation of consumer protection standards to be adhered to by
the pawn industry.
   (D)   To separate youth from the pawn industry.
   (E)   To protect property values, prevent blight, and protect the public
health, safety and general welfare.
   (F)   To stabilize the city’s cost of regulating the pawn industry.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker
except renewals, redemptions or extensions of existing pawns on items
previously reported and continuously in the licensee’s possession is a billable
transaction.
   PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership or corporation, either as
principal, or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge
of personal property, or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing
of personal property, or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel
mortgage on personal property, taking possession of the property or any part
thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that a pawnbroker’s business includes
buying personal property previously used, rented or leased, or selling it on
consignment, the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable.
   REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade, or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point-of-sale software,
is reportable except: (1) The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used
merchandise from a merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established
permanent place of business, and the retail sale of said merchandise, provided
the pawnbroker must maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which
describes each item, and must mark each item in a manner which relates it to
that transaction record; and (2) Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise
originally received by pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/
or redemption periods have expired.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of pawnbroker at any location without
a pawnbroker license for that location. No pawnbroker license may be
transferred to a different location or a different person. Issuance of a
license under this chapter shall not relieve the licensee from obtaining any
other licenses required to conduct business at the same or any other location.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.04 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Contents. An application form provided by the City Clerk must be
completed by every applicant for a new license or for renewal of an existing
license. Every new applicant must provide all the following information:
      (1)   If the applicant is a natural person:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address, and
phone number of applicant.
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien.
         (c)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used.
         (d)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name, or style other than the name of the applicant and a
certified copy of the certificate as required by M.S. § 333.01.
         (e)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years.
         (f)   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the preceding five years.
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place, and offense of all
such convictions.
         (h)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(g).
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (A)(1)
of this section.
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business.
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, a certified copy of such certificate must
be attached to the application.
      (3)    If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or business form, and if
incorporated, the state of incorporation.
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement, and by-laws shall be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, must be attached.
         (c)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor, or agent
required in divisions (A)(1)(a) through (A)(1)(g) fo this section.
      (4)   For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit.
         (b)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked
or suspended, a pawnbroker precious metal dealer, or secondhand dealer license
from any other governmental unit.
         (c)   The location of the business premises.
         (d)   Such other information as the City Council or issuing authority
may require.
   (B)   Applications. All applications for a license under this chapter must
be signed and sworn to under oath or affirmation by the applicant. If the
application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and sworn to by such
person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a
partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that of an unincorporated
association, by the manager or managing officer thereof. Any falsification on a
license application shall result in the denial of a license.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.05 PROCESSING OF LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Investigation. The city’s law enforcement agency must investigate the
truthfulness of the statements set forth in the application for a license under
this chapter and shall endorse the findings thereon. The applicant must furnish
to the city’s law enforcement agency such evidence as the law enforcement
agency may reasonably require in support of the statements set forth in the
application.
   (B)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Required. The City Council shall afford the applicant and all
interested parties a public hearing.
      (2)   Recommendation; publication of notice.  Within 45 days of the
filing of a complete application, the city’s law enforcement agency and any
other consultants shall make a written recommendation to the City Council as to
the issuance or non-issuance of the license, setting forth the facts upon which
the recommendation is based. Upon receipt of the written report and
recommendation of the city’s law enforcement agency and within 20 days
thereafter, the city shall cause to be published in the official newspaper
notice of hearing to be held by the City Council. The notice shall be published
at least ten days in advance of the hearing, and it shall set forth the day,
time and place when the hearing will be held, the name of the applicant, the
location where the business is or will be conducted and such other information
as the Council may direct.
      (3)   Mailing of notice.
         (a)   At least 15 days before a public hearing on an original
application for a license, the city shall send by mail notice of the time,
place and purpose of such hearing to all owners and occupants of property
within 350 feet of the lot on which the establishment to be licensed is
located.
         (b)   Prior to the hearing date, the City Council shall receive a list
from the applicant of the names and addresses of each person to whom notice is
to be sent, and certification of such list by the zoning administrator shall be
conclusive evidence of such notice.
         (c)   The failure to give mailed notice to such owners or occupants
within 350 feet, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate a license
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this section has been made. A bona
fide attempt is evidence by a notice addressed to “owner” and to “occupant” of
the listed address.
      (4)   Action by Council. The City Council shall afford the applicant and
all interested parties a public hearing no later than 75 days after the filing
of a complete application, and shall have the discretion to consider in
granting, denying, renewing, or declining to renew a license at that hearing
any matter, including, but not limited to, provisions of this chapter deemed by
the City Council to be relevant to protection of the public’s health, safety
and welfare and minimization may be extended upon the written request of the
applicant.
      (5)   Notification of decision.  The city shall notify the applicant of
the Council’s decision and provide a copy of the City Council action on the
application.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.06 LICENSE ELIGIBILITY.
   No license under this chapter will be issued to an applicant who is a
natural person, a partnership if such applicant has any general partner or
managing partner, a corporation or other organization if such applicant has any
manager, proprietor or agent in charge of the business to be licensed, if the
applicant:
   (A)   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed.
   (B)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, and has not shown competent
evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties
of a licensee under this chapter as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3.
   (C)   Is not of good moral character or repute.
   (D)   The applicant or licensee has been convicted of receiving stolen
property, sale of stolen property or a controlled substance, burglary, robber,
theft, damage, or trespass to property, any law or ordinance regulating the
business of pawnbroker or any other law or ordinance related to the fitness of
the applicant to operate the proposed business within the last ten years of the
license application date.
   (E)   The applicant or licensee has had a pawnbroker license revoked within
ten years of the license application date.
   (F)   The taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or the
state on the licensee’s business premises are delinquent and unpaid.
   (G)   The applicant’s present license was issued conditioned upon the
applicant making specified improvements to the licensed premises or the
property of the licensed premises, which improvements have not been completed.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.07 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The maximum allowable number of pawnbroker licenses shall be two.
   (B)   Each license under this section shall be issued to the applicant only
and shall not be transferable to any other person. No licensee shall loan,
sell, give or assign a license to another person.
   (C)   The City Council may revoke the pawn license of any business that
shows no pawn activity for a period of six months. A hearing shall be held to
determine the status of the pawn operation and if satisfactory intent to do
business under the license is not demonstrated, the City Council may revoke the
license.
   (D)   A pawnbrokers license shall be issued only for the exact rooms and
square footage of the premises described in the application.
   (E)   No license shall be granted until all applicable zoning requirements
are met.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONDITIONS.
   All licenses are subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The lot must be at least 1,000 feet from the property line of a site
containing another pawnshop, currency exchange, payday loan agency, gun shop,
liquor store or sexually-oriented business. In the case of a shopping center or
multi-use building, the distance shall be measure from the portion of the
center or building occupied by the pawnshop.
   (B)   The premises must be located at least 300 radial feet from a licensed
day care facility, private residence, house of worship, school, playground,
park, library, or other community recreational center or facility, secondhand
good store, consignment house, or auction house. For the purpose of this
section, measurements shall be made in a straight line without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the nearest point of the lot containing
or to contain the pawnshop, to the nearest point of the lot containing one of
the mentioned uses.
   (C)   The operation of the licensed premises must be located in the B-
1 zoning district.
   (D)   The pawnshop use shall not operate in conjunction with a sexually-
oriented business.
   (E)   In-vehicle sales or services are prohibited.
   (F)   Fire arm transactions are prohibited.
   (G)   Exterior loudspeakers or public address systems are prohibited.
   (H)   Visibility into the store shall be maintained by utilizing clear,
transparent glass on all windows and doors, by keeping all windows free of
obstructions for at least three feet into the store. Product may be displayed
for sale in the window as long as the display, including signage, does not
occupy more than 30% of the window area.
   (I)   Interior and exterior bars, grills, mesh or similar obstructions,
whether temporary or permanently affixed, shall not cover any exterior door or
window area.
   (J)   Neon accents and back-lighted awnings shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.09 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Annual license fee.  Each application for a license shall be
accompanied by payment in full of the required application fee as specified in
the fee schedule as adopted by the City Council. Upon rejection of any
application for a license, the city shall refund the amount paid. No other
refunds shall be made.
   (B)   Investigation fee.  The applicant for a new license under this chapter
or for the renewal of an existing license that is more than six months past
due, or a manager if other than the applicant, or a new manager, shall deposit
payment in full of the required investigation fee as specified in the fee
schedule as adopted by City Council to cover the costs involved in verifying
the license application and to cover the expense of any investigation needed to
ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Billable transaction fee. The billable transaction license fee shall
reflect the cost of processing transactions and other related regulatory
expenses as determined by the City Council, and shall be reviewed and adjusted,
if necessary every six months. Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days
before any adjustment is implemented. Billable transaction fees shall be billed
monthly and are due and payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.10 BOND REQUIRED.
   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit a $5,000 bond
on the forms provided by the licensing authority. All bonds must be conditioned
that the principal will observe all laws in relation to pawnbrokers, and will
conduct business in conformity thereto, and that the principal will account for
and deliver to any person legally entitled any goods which have come into the
principal’s hand through the principal’s business as a pawnbroker, or in lieu
thereof, will pay the reasonable value in money to the person. The bond shall
contain a provision that no bond may be canceled except upon 30 days written
notice to the city, which shall be served upon the licensing authority.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.11 RECORDS REQUIRED.
   At the time of any reportable transaction other than renewals, extensions or
redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in English the following
information by using ink or other indelible medium on forms or in a
computerized record approved by the city’s law enforcement agency.
   (A)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
   (B)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or pledged therefore.
   (C)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges.
   (D)   Date, time and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records.
   (E)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from whom the item
of property was received, including: sex, height, weight, race, color of eyes
and color of hair.
   (F)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the following
forms of identification of the seller:
      (1)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license.
      (2)   Current valid Minnesota identification card.
      (3)   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state or
province of Canada.
   (G)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction.
   (H)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the city’s law
enforcement agency of acceptable video standards the licensee must also take a
color photograph or color video recording of:
      (1)   Each customer involved in a billable transaction.
      (2)   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed. If a photograph is
taken, it must be at least two inches in length by two inches in width and must
be maintained in such a manner that the photograph can be readily matched and
correlated with all other records of the transaction to which they relate. Such
photographs must be available to the County Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee,
upon request. The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable
front facial close-up of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items
photographed must be accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person
that he or she is being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in
a conspicuous place in the premises. If a video photograph is taken, the video
camera must zoom in on the person pawning or selling the item so as to include
an identifiable close-up of that person’s face. Items photographed by video
must be accurately depicted. Video photographs must be electronically
referenced by time and date so they can be readily matched and correlated with
all other records of the transaction to which they relate. The licensee must
inform the person orally that he or she is being videotaped and by displaying a
sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee
must keep the exposed videotape for three months.
   (I)   Digitized photographs. Effective 60 days from the date of notification
by the city’s law enforcement agency licensees must fulfill the color
photograph requirements in §
115.11(H) by submitting them as digital images, in a format specified by the
issuing authority, electronically cross-referenced to the reportable
transaction they are associated with. Notwithstanding, the digital images may
be captured from required video recordings. This provision does not alter or
amend the requirements in § 155.11(H).
   (J)   Renewals, extensions and redemptions.  For renewals, extensions and
redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction identifier,
the date of the current transaction and the type of transaction.
   (K)   Inspection of records. The records must at all reasonable times be
open to inspection by the city's law enforcement agency or department of
licenses and consumer services. Data entries shall be retained for at least
three years from the date of transaction. Entries of required digital images
shall be retained a minimum of 90 days.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.12 DAILY REPORTS TO LAW ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Effective no later than 60 days after the city’s law enforcement
agency provides licensees with computerized record standards, licensees must
submit every reportable transaction to the city’s law enforcement agency daily
in the following manner:
      (1)   Licensees must provide to the city’s law enforcement agency all
information required in §
115.10(A) through (F) and other required information by transferring it from
their computer to the automated pawn system via modem. All required records
must be transmitted completely and accurately after the close of business each
day in accordance with standards and procedures established by the issuing
authority. The licensee must display a sign of sufficient size, in a
conspicuous place in the premises, which informs all patrons that all
transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.
   (B)   Billable transactions fees. Licensees will be charged for each
billable transaction reported to the Police Department.
      (1)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department printed
copies of all reportable transactions along with the video tape(s) for that
date by 12:00 p.m. the next business day.
      (2)   If the problem is determined to be in the licensee’s system and is
not corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must provide the required reports as detailed in §
115.12(B)(1), and must be charged a $50 reporting failure penalty, daily, until
the error is corrected.
      (3)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s system,
the licensee must provide the required reports in §
115.12(B)(1) and resubmit all such transactions via modem when the error is
corrected.
      (4)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the
photographs required in §
115.11(I), the licensee must immediately take all required photographs with a
still camera, cross-reference the photographs to the correct transaction, and
make the pictures available to the County Sheriff upon request.
      (5)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
      (6)   Section
115.12(B)(1) through (B)(3) notwithstanding, the city’s law enforcement agency
may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay the implementation
of the daily reporting penalty.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.13 RECEIPT REQUIRED.
   Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party identified in every
reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of that receipt for three
years. The receipt must include at least the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed business.
   (B)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee.
   (C)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the transaction.
   (D)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item.
   (E)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction.
   (F)   The amount advanced or paid.
   (G)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges.
   (H)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed by
the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount necessary
to redeem the pawned item on that date.
   (I)   The full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number and date of birth of the pledger or seller.
   (J)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the following
forms of identification of the seller:
      (1)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license.
      (2)   Current valid Minnesota identification card.
      (3)   Current valid photo driver’s license or identification card issued
by another state or province of Canada.
   (K)   Description of the pledger or seller including sex, approximate
height, weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair.
   (L)   The signature of the pledger or seller.
   (M)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04, subd. 2, or any
other applicable statutes.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.14 REDEMPTION PERIOD.
   Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item for security must have a
minimum of 90 days from the date of that transaction to redeem the item before
it may be forfeited and sold during the 90 day holding period, items may not be
removed from the licensed location except as provided in §
115.21. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to anyone other than
the person to whom the receipt was issued or, to any person identified in a
written and notarized authorization to redeem the property identified in the
receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger at the time of the
initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with approval of the law
enforcement license inspector. Written authorization for release of property to
persons other than original pledger must be maintained along with original
transaction record in accordance with §
115.11(J).
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.15 HOLDING PERIOD.
   Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee must not be sold or
otherwise transferred for 30 days from the date of the transaction. An
individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received on deposit,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.16 LAW ENFORCEMENT ORDER TO HOLD PROPERTY.
   (A)   Investigative hold.  Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency with 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant to division
(B), whichever comes first.
   (B)   Order to hold. Whenever the County Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee,
notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or removed
from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the Sheriff or
Sheriff’s designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date it is
placed unless the Sheriff or the Sheriff’s designee determines the hold is
still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
   (C)   Order to confiscate.  If an item is identified as stolen or evidence
in a criminal case the Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee may:
      (1)   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to
written order from the Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee; or
      (2)   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided pursuant to
division (B); and leave it in the shop. When an item is confiscated, the person
doing so shall provide identification upon request of the licensee, and shall
provide the licensee the name and phone number of the confiscating agency and
investigator and the case number related to the confiscation. When an order to
hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the Sheriff or Sheriff’s designee shall
so notify the licensee.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.17 INSPECTION OF ITEMS.
   At all times during the terms of the license, the licensee must allow law
enforcement officials to enter the premises where the licensed business is
located, including all off-site storage facilities as authorized in §
115.21 during normal business hours, except in an emergency for the purpose of
inspecting such premises and inspecting the items, ware and merchandise and
records therein to verify compliance with this chapter and other applicable
laws.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.18 LABEL REQUIRED.
   Licensee must attach a label to every item at the time it is pawned,
purchased or received in inventory from any reportable transaction. Permanently
recorded on this label must be the number or name that identifies the
transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the name of the item
and the description or the model and serial number of the item as reported to
the city’s law enforcement agency whichever is applicable and the date the item
is out of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be re-used.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.19 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)    No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or an
intoxicated person.
   (C)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid State of
Minnesota identification card, or current valid photo driver’s license or
identification card issued by the state of residency of the person from whom
the item was received.
   (D)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an altered
or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any item of
property that has had its serial number removed.
   (E)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit any
article of property not their own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell,
consign, leave, or deposit the property of another, whether with permission or
without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property in which another person has a security interest; with
any licensee.
   (F)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave, or deposit
any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious
name, nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address
of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another; to any licensee.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.20 DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license under this chapter may be denied, suspended or revoked for one
or more of the following reasons:
   (A)   The proposed use does not comply with any applicable zoning code.
   (B)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance or other provisions of this Code of Ordinances or state law.
   (C)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information.
   (E)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a license.
   (F)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s business.
   (G)   Violation within the preceding five years, of any law relating to
theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, or
operation of a business.
   (H)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not qualify
for a license under the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.21 BUSINESS AT ONLY ONE PLACE.
   A license under this chapter authorizes the licensee to carry on its
business only at the permanent place of business designated in the license.
However, upon written request, the city’s law enforcement agency may approve an
offsite locked and secured storage facility. The licensee shall permit
inspection of the facility in accordance with §
115.17. All provisions of this chapter regarding record keeping and reporting
apply to the facility and its contents. Property shall be stored in compliance
with all provisions of the City Code. The licensee must either own the building
in which the business is conducted, and any approved off-site storage facility,
or have a lease on the business premise that extends for more than six months.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 115.22 SEPARABILITY.
   Should any section, subsection, clause or other provision of this chapter be
declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid such decision shall
not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part other than the
part so declared invalid.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
CHAPTER 116: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definitions
   
116.03   Licensing
   
116.04   Licensing exemptions
   
116.05   Ineligibility for license
   
116.06   License suspension and revocation
   
116.07   License transferability
   
116.08   Additional licensing conditions
   
116.09   Prohibited activities
   
116.10   Compliance with zoning
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to permit the reasonable use of mobile food units
while preventing any adverse consequences to residents, businesses, and public
property.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19)
§ 116.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT. Mobile food unit means a food and beverage service
establishment that is a vehicle mounted unit, either:
      (1)   Motorized or trailered, operating no more than 21 days annually at
any one place, or operating more than 21 days annually at any one place with
the approval of the regulatory authority as defined in Minn. Rules, Part
4626.0020, Subpart 70; or
      (2)   Operated in conjunction with a permanent business licensed under
M.S. Chapters 28A or 157 at the site of the permanent business by the same
individual or company, and readily movable, without disassembling, for
transport to another location.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19)
§ 116.03 LICENSING.
   (A)   State and county license required. No person shall operate a mobile
food unit within the city limits without first having obtained the appropriate
license from the state or county as may be required by M.S. Chapter 329, as it
may be amended from time to time, or as may be required under any other
applicable state statute, rule, or regulation.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided by this chapter,
no person shall operate a mobile food unit without first obtaining a city
license. A license to operate a mobile food unit shall be issued pursuant to,
and the operation of a mobile food unit shall be regulated by, this chapter and
not by
Chapter 96 of this code.
   (C)   Application. An application for a city license to operate a mobile
food unit shall be made at least 14 regular business days before the applicant
desires to begin operating a mobile food unit within the city. Application for
a license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available
from the office of the City Clerk. Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false
statement on the application shall constitute a violation of this chapter and
shall be grounds for denial of the license application. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant.
   (D)   All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's full legal name;
      (2)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer to;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, and distinguishing marks or features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business, if any
exists;
      (8)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (9)   The dates on which the applicant intends to operate the mobile food
unit;
      (10)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the address
of the location where the mobile food unit will be operated;
      (11)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the previous five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
for violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
for minor traffic offenses;
      (12)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
operated a mobile food unit;
      (13)   Proof of receipt of all required state and/or county licenses to
operate a mobile food unit;
      (14)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any location to be used by the mobile food unit;
      (15)   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Council;
      (16)   The applicant's driver's license number or other form of
identification acceptable to the city;
      (17)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN), and physical description for any vehicle to be
used in conjunction with the licensed business operation, including proof of
receipt of a MNDOT number for the mobile food unit; and
      (18)   Insurance. Applicants shall furnish the city with certificate of
insurance by an insurance
company authorized to do business in the state, evidencing the following forms
of insurance:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If such insurance contains an annual aggregate
limit, the annual aggregate limit shall be not less than $2,000,000;
         (b)   Commercial automobile liability insurance with a limit of not
less than $1,000,000 each occurrence. The insurance shall cover liability
arising out of any auto, including owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles;
         (c)   Food products liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (d)   Umbrella/excess liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (e)   Workers compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence of
exemption from state law;
         (f)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the
general liability, auto liability, and umbrella/excess liability policies. The
insurance coverage must be primary and non-contributory. This certificate must
be on file with the city if the applicant intends to operate its vehicle on
public property including public right-of-way;
         (g)   The general liability, business auto, and worker's compensation
policies should all contain waivers of subrogation with reference to the City
of St. Michael; and
         (h)   The certificate of insurance must contain a provision requiring
a ten day notification be sent to the city should the policy be cancelled
before its expiration.
   (E)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule ordinance
as it may be amended from time to time by the City Council.
   (F)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, or its designee, shall within ten business
days determine if the application is complete. An application will be
considered complete if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk,
or its designee, determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk,
or its designee, shall inform the applicant of the required, necessary
information that is missing. The City Clerk, or its designee, shall review a
complete application and order any investigation, including background checks,
necessary to verify the information provided with the application. Within ten
regular business days of receiving a complete application, the City Clerk, or
its designee, shall issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the
license application under §
116.05 of this chapter, in which case the Clerk, or its designee, shall deny
the request for a city mobile food unit license. If the City Clerk, or its
designee, denies the license application, the applicant must be notified in
writing of the decision, the reason for denial and the applicant's right to
appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of
rejection, a hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the
appeal within 20 days of the date of the request for a hearing.
   (G)   Duration. A license is valid for each calendar year, beginning January
1 and ending December 31.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.04 LICENSING EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Holders of conditional use or special event permits. Where outdoor
sales are permitted under a conditional use or special event permit approved by
the City Council, this chapter shall apply only to the extent that such
provisions have been included in the conditional use or special event permit.
Nothing herein shall limit the authority of the City Council to impose other
reasonable conditions where they are deemed by the city to be appropriate.
   (B)   Private events. No license shall be required for any mobile food unit
contracted by a property owner for a private event where food is not sold to
guests or any other member of the public.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a mobile food unit license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain, or failure to demonstrate proof
of having obtained, any required state and/or county license;
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application;
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (E)   A conviction within the previous five years of the date of the
application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or
of any city ordinance or code requirement, which adversely reflects upon the
applicant's ability to operate a business for which the license is being sought
in a professional, honest, and legal manner. Such violation shall include, but
is not limited to, burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful
business practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against
another person;
   (F)   The revocation within the previous five years of any license issued to
an applicant for the purpose of operating as a mobile food unit; and/or
   (G)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general's
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed with the city against an
applicant within the preceding five years.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge obtained by the city of fraud,
misrepresentation, or incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
116.05 of this chapter;
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
116.09 of this chapter; or
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with verbal and written notice
of alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing
on the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application; if no
residential address is listed, then to the business address provided on the
license application.
   (C)   Hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (B) of this
section, the licensee shall have the right to request a hearing. If no request
for a hearing is received by the City Clerk or its designee within seven days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a hearing is
requested within the stated time frame it shall be scheduled within 20 days
from the date of the request for the hearing. Within three regular business
days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (D)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Clerk or City
Administrator, imminent harm to the health or safety of the public may occur
because of the actions of a licensee operating a mobile food unit licensed
under this chapter, the City Clerk, or its designee, may immediately suspend
the mobile food unit license and provide notice of the right to hold a
subsequent hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (E)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   A license issued under this chapter shall be valid only for the licensee to
whom the license was issued. A license shall not be transferred to any other
person.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.08 ADDITIONAL LICENSING CONDITIONS.
   All licensees operating mobile food units, with the exception of exempt
groups or vendors as provided in §
116.04, are required to comply with the additional following standards and
conditions.
   (A)   License. Mobile food units must be licensed by the Minnesota Health
Department and must adhere to state regulations for food trucks as provided in
Food Code Chapter 4626.1860, Mobile Food Establishments; Seasonal Temporary
Food Stands; Seasonal Permanent Food Stands. Evidence of the state license must
be provided to the city as part of the local license application. Licenses are
issued on an annual basis and permit mobile food units to operate at up to four
locations in the community during the course of the year, not to exceed 21 days
per location.
   (B)   Location. A mobile food unit may only operate in accordance with the
following.
      (1)   Mobile food units are permitted in private commercial, industrial,
public/institutional parking lots and on private residential property, with the
written consent of the private property owner, for a "one-time" event. When
operations occur on private residential property, mobile food unit sales may
only be for catering purposes (such as a private graduation party or wedding)
and not open for sales to the general public.
      (2)   Mobile food units must be a minimum of five feet from driveways and
side and rear property lines.
      (3)   Mobile food units cannot be located within 300 feet from the
perimeter of any pre-approved festival, sporting event, or civic event unless
the licensee operating the mobile food unit submits written verification to the
City Clerk that the licensee is authorized to operate the mobile food unit as
part of the festival, sporting event, or civic event.
      (4)   Mobile food units may not operate within 100 feet from a public
entrance to any restaurant and/or within 100 feet from any portion of a
restaurant's outdoor dining area during that restaurant's hours of operation
unless the licensee obtains permission from restaurant owner.
      (5)   Mobile food units may not be operated in city-owned parking lots,
except those parking lots adjacent to or inside a city park in conjunction with
a special event approved by the city.
   (C)   Standards. A mobile food unit licensee is subject to the following
performance standards.
      (1)   Trash, recycling containers, and cleanup must be provided. The
mobile food unit licensee is responsible for daily removal of trash, litter,
recycling, and refuse from the area surrounding the operation of the mobile
food unit. Trash and recycling containers must be equipped with a tight-fitting
lid and located within five feet of the mobile food unit.
      (2)   A mobile food unit must have its own independent power supply,
which is screened from view and complies with city's noise regulations.
Generators are permitted.
      (3)   A licensed operator of a mobile food unit must lawfully dispose of
gray water daily. Gray water may not be drained into city storm water drains.
      (4)   Mobile food units may not be operated between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. An exception to these hour restrictions may be authorized by City Council
on a per event basis.
      (5)   Mobile food units must be located on a paved surface and may not be
operated in a traffic lane, on a sidewalk or trail, or in any location which
causes an obstruction of traffic. A mobile food unit may be operated on a
public street for a private event in a residential zoning district, with
location approval from the city and receipt by the city of the licensee's
signed indemnification and hold harmless agreement in a form prepared by the
city.
      (6)   A mobile food unit may not occupy more than two off-street parking
spaces. The city shall determine if there is adequate off-street parking to
serve both the principal and the mobile food unit use of the property.
      (7)   A mobile food unit may have a maximum bumper to bumper length of no
more than 30 feet.
      (8)   Mobile food units shall not be left unattended nor remain at an
authorized location outside allowed hours of operation.
      (9)   Mobile food units must close during adverse weather conditions when
shelter is not provided.
      (10)   Mobile food units may not travel in or on public sidewalks or
trails.
      (11)   Mobile food units shall comply with all applicable Fire Codes. A
licensee shall allow a mobile food unit to be inspected by a City Fire Official
prior to operation.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.09 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No person engaged in the business of a mobile food unit operation shall
conduct such activity in any of the following manners.
   (A)   Refusing to leave. It shall be unlawful to refuse to leave premises
owned or leased by another after having been notified by the owner or occupant
to leave the premises.
   (B)   Misrepresentation. It shall be unlawful to make false, misleading, or
fraudulent statements concerning the quality of the food which is being offered
for sale.
   (C)   Use of audio devices or unreasonable noise. It shall be unlawful to
call attention to activities regulated by this chapter by means of blowing a
horn or whistle, by ringing any bell, by crying out, or by making any other
noise in an unreasonable manner.
   (D)   Obstructing traffic. It shall be unlawful to obstruct the free flow of
either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public right-of-way.
   (E)   Safety hazard. It shall be unlawful to conduct activities regulated by
this chapter in such a way as to create a threat to the health, safety, and
welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (F)   Proof of license. It shall be unlawful to fail to provide proof of
license, registration, or identification when requested, or to use those of
another person.
   (G)   Harassment. It shall be unlawful to conduct business in a manner a
reasonable person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.10 COMPLIANCE WITH ZONING.
   Mobile food units shall be operated in compliance with all requirements of
the Zoning Code. Compliance with the Zoning Code location, information, and
plan requirements shall be verified in writing by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine or imprisonment, or both, as
specified by state statute.
(Ord. 1903, passed 6-25-19)
CHAPTER 117: LIMITATION ON ALLOWED CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
   
117.01   Purpose
   
117.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
117.03   Limiting number of registrations of cannabis businesses
   
117.04   Definitions
§ 117.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to limit the number of cannabis businesses
that are licensed pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342 that will be allowed to operate
within the legal boundaries of the city.
(Ord. 2404, passed 12-17-24)
§ 117.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The city has the authority to place a limitation on the number of
state-licensed cannabis businesses that will be allowed to operate in the city
pursuant to M.S. § 342.13.
   (B)   The city has delegated cannabis business registration authority to the
County of Wright. However, the city may adopt ordinance restrictions on the
time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis business.
(Ord. 2404, passed 12-17-24)
§ 117.03 LIMITING NUMBER OF REGISTRATIONS OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES.
   The city shall limit the number of registrations of cannabis businesses to
one registration for every 12,500 residents.
(Ord. 2404, passed 12-17-24)
§ 117.04 DEFINITIONS.
   The definition of CANNABIS BUSINESS shall be the same as set forth in M.S. §
342.01, Subd. 14.
(Ord. 2404, passed 12-17-24)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Disorderly conduct
   
130.03   Discharge of firearms
   
130.04   Bows and arrows
   
130.05   Explosive instruments
   
130.06   Loitering; offensive language and conduct
   
130.07   Noise
   
130.08   Trespassing
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Cable television; violations; unauthorized connections and tampering, see
§ 112.98
   False fire alarms, see § 32.55
   Fire Department; equipment use, see § 32.56
   Gambling and bingo, see
Ch. 113
   Nuisances; gambling, houses of ill fame, bawdy houses, see
§ 91.17
   Nuisances; harassing telephone calls, see
§ 91.17
   Nuisances; window peeping, see
§ 91.17
   Sewers; damage to treatment facilities, see
§ 51.55
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the police dispatcher.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT, OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
   PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another minor.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school-sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, or public buildings; nor in or upon places
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, or public buildings; nor in or upon places
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of such business trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To a minor on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or
abutting the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not
complain to the city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s
presence;
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one
of the exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Penalties.
      (1)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of this section may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as amended.
      (2)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced up to the maximum penalty
authorized by state law for a misdemeanor.
   (I)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
§ 130.02 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Whoever does any of the following in a public or private place,
including on a school bus, knowing, or having reasonable grounds to know that
it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger or disturb others or provoke an assault
or breach of the peace, is guilty of disorderly conduct, which is a
misdemeanor:
      (1)   Engages in brawling or fighting; or
      (2)   Disturbs an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character; or
      (3)   Engages in offensive, obscene, abusive, boisterous, or noisy
conduct or in offensive, obscene, or abusive language tending reasonably to
arouse alarm, anger, or resentment in others.
   (B)   A person does not violate this section if the person’s disorderly
conduct was caused by an epileptic seizure.
Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FIREARM.  Includes all rifles, shotguns, handguns, weapons using
smokeless or black powder, and pellet weapons, whether gas, pneumatic, battery
or spring powered.
   (B)   Prohibited. The discharge of any firearm of any kind or description is
prohibited within the city except in the following described areas or under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Those areas that are classified as agricultural zoning districts
pursuant to the city’s zoning map;
      (2)   Parcels of land 20 acres or more in size that are actively in
agricultural use; and
      (3)   Where the use of a firearm is expressly authorized by state or
federal law.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 117, passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. 0703, passed
7-10-07; Am. Ord. 1106, passed 8-9-11) Penalty, see §
130.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
§ 130.04 BOWS AND ARROWS.
   The use of a bow and arrow is prohibited within the city except as follows:
   (A)   A bow and arrow may be used in those areas that are classified as
agricultural zoning districts pursuant to the St. Michael Zoning Ordinance;
   (B)   A bow and arrow may be used in parcels of land 20 acres or more in
size that are actively in agricultural use;
   (C)   A bow and arrow may be used in a regulated, confined archery range;
   (D)   A permit may be issued by the city to allow a bow and arrow to be used
to hunt deer subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A written application for a permit must be submitted to the city;
      (2)   The city must find that the location of the land for which the deer
hunt permit is requested is in an area that is reasonably safe for such a use
of a bow and arrow;
      (3)   The permit shall be for a limited period of time as determined by
the city;
      (4)   The permit may issued only for the limited purpose of controlling
the deer population in an area where the city finds that damage to property
causing significant economic loss has been caused by deer overpopulation and
that further damage is reasonably likely to occur unless the bow and arrow deer
hunt is allowed;
      (5)   The deer hunting must be primarily from a stand;
      (6)   The applicant must comply with all conditions established by the
city in conjunction with the issuance of the permit;
      (7)   The applicant must comply with all state hunting laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-3-96; Am. Ord. 117, passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. 131, passed
11-14-00) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 154
§ 130.05 EXPLOSIVE INSTRUMENTS.
   No person shall fire, explode, or set off any explosive instrument (except
for the discharge of firearms pursuant to the terms of § 130.03), substance, or
material anywhere within the limits of the city.
(Ord. 99, passed 9-3-96) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; explosives and combustible material; see
§ 91.18
§ 130.06 LOITERING; OFFENSIVE LANGUAGE AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to loiter,
loaf, wander, stand, or remain idle either alone or with others in a public
place in such manner so as to violate any provision of the subdivisions of this
section which follow:
      (1)   No person shall obstruct any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk, or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding, or do
any act tending to hinder or impede, the free and uninterrupted passage of
vehicles, traffic, or pedestrians.
      (2)   No person shall commit, in or upon any public street, public
highway, public sidewalk, or any other public place or building, any act or
thing which is an obstruction or interference to the free and uninterrupted use
of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone in or upon or
facing or fronting on any such public street, public highway, public sidewalk,
or any other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress, and regress therein, thereon, and thereto.
      (3)   No person shall loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public
property, sidewalk, street, curb, crosswalk, walkway area, parking lot, mall,
or other portion of private property open for public use so as to unreasonably
block, obstruct, or hinder free passage of the public.
      (4)   No person shall, without consent of the owner or occupant,
unreasonably block, obstruct, or hinder free access to the entrance of any
building or part of a building open to the public.
      (5)   No person shall loiter, stand, sit, or lie in any area where a sign
prohibiting loitering has been posted.
      (6)   No person in any public or private place shall use offensive,
obscene, or abusive language, or grab, follow, or engage in any conduct which
unreasonably tends to arouse alarm, anger, fear, or resentment in another.
   (B)   Violations and exemptions.
      (1)   Violations. When any person causes or commits any of the acts
enumerated in (A) and is ordered by the owner, agent, manager, or person in
charge of the premises, or by any law enforcement officer, to stop causing or
committing such acts and to move on or disperse, and fails or refuses to obey
such an order or returns to the premises within 24 hours after having been so
requested or ordered shall be guilty of a violation of this section.
      (2)   Exemptions. Acts authorized as an exercise of a person’s
constitutional right to freedom of speech and assembly shall not constitute a
violation of this section.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person who shall knowingly violate this section shall,
upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished according to
law.
(Ord. 95, passed 10-10-95) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; crowds obstructing streets and sidewalks, see
§ 91.18
   Nuisances; profane or obscene language and disturbance of the peace, see
§ 91.17
§ 130.07 NOISE.
   (A)   Purpose. There has come into being within the city certain loud,
avoidable, unnatural, and unnecessary noises which constitute a threat to the
health, welfare, contentment, and feeling of well-being of the citizens of the
city. Therefore, the City Council does declare that the doing of such things
prohibited by, or not in conformity with, the terms of this section constitute
an undesirable noise and shall be punished as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Reservation of remedies. The provisions of this section shall be in
addition to and shall not disturb either the right of the city or the right of
individuals to any other remedy which might or could be available under any
other law, statute, code provision, ordinance, or regulation.
   (C)   Specific noises prohibited. Except as provided, the following are
declared to be nuisance noises in violation of this section and are prohibited.
      (1)   Unmuffled engines. It shall be unlawful to operate or cause to be
operated any motorized vehicle unless the noise from such motorized vehicle is
muffled with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noise so that the same
shall not cause annoyance to the public or disturb the rest and quiet of
persons residing or occupying property near enough thereto to be annoyed
thereby, and which muffler device complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations.
      (2)   Exhausts. It shall be unlawful to discharge into the open air the
exhaust of any vehicle except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive noises therefrom and which complies with
all applicable state laws and regulations.
      (3)   Street noise. No person between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. shall operate a radio, stereo, tape player, or any other audible device
other than a motor vehicle engine on the highways, streets, parking lots,
alleys, sidewalks, or other public property within the city which is audible at
a distance of 25 feet.
   (D)   Responsibility. The owner and tenant of any premises on which a
violation of this section occurs shall make every reasonable effort to see that
the violation ceases. Violation of this section shall be deemed the act of the
person committing the act and the person in possession, control, or custody or
having charge of the premises who allows or permits the violation to take
place. Violation of this section shall also be deemed the act of a nonresident
landlord, provided the nonresident landlord has received written notice from
the city of the violation and has failed to make every reasonable effort to see
that the violation ceases or does not continue to occur.
(Ord. 106, passed 8-12-97) Penalty, see
§ 130.99
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances; noise, see
§ 91.18
§ 130.08 TRESPASSING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC BUILDING. Includes all structures or areas owned and operated by
any governmental or public functions including, but not limited to: schools and
colleges, public and private, libraries, parks, parking lots, playgrounds,
holding ponds, city, county, state and federal administrative offices.
   (B)   Trespass. It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in a public
building or upon the grounds thereof after being requested to leave said
premises by persons lawfully responsible for the control and maintenance
thereof, when the continued presence of any person shall injure or endanger the
safety of said public building, or unreasonably interfere with the
administration thereof.
   (C)   Interfere with public business. It shall be unlawful for any person to
willfully harass, disrupt, interfere with or obstruct any public or
governmental business or approved function being conducted within or upon the
premises or grounds of any public building.
(Ord. 1404, passed 11-10-14)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
chapter for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating the provisions of §
130.02 shall upon conviction be punished by a fine not exceeding $100 and costs
of prosecution, or by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days.
(Ord. 1, passed 3-24-50)
   (C)   Violation of §
130.07 is subject to prosecution as a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 106, passed 8-12-97)
Cross-reference:
   Penalty for petty misdemeanors, see
§ 10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
152.   SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT AND STORMWATER SYSTEMS
      
153.   TOWERS AND WIRELESS FACILITIES
      
154.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
155.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Conveyance of land
§ 150.01 CONVEYANCE OF LAND.
   (A)   No conveyance of land shall be filed or recorded if the land is
described in the conveyance by metes and bounds or by reference to an
unapproved registered land survey made after April 21, 1961, or to an
unapproved plat. The foregoing provisions do not apply to a conveyance if the
land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record as of June 14, 1977;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to June 14, 1977;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 2½ acres in area and 150
feet in width on January 1, 1980;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width on July 1, 1980;
      (5)   Was a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not more
than five acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than five acres in area or 300 feet in width; or
      (6)   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
   (B)   Building permits may be withheld for buildings or tracts which have
not been subdivided or conveyed pursuant to the provisions of the ordinances
and code provisions of the city. The city shall have no obligation to improve,
repair, or maintain any right-of-way until it is accepted by the city.
   (C)   Provisions of this section may be waived pursuant to the provisions of
M.S. § 462.358(4)(b), as amended.
(Ord. 75, passed 9-12-90)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions; conveyance by metes and bounds description, see §
154.020
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
151.02   Building Code regulations
   
151.03   Gas fitting and heating, ventilation and air conditioning regulations
   
151.04   Electrical regulations
   151.05   Violation and penalty
Cross-reference:
   Culverts, see §
93.02
   Nuisances; buildings, see §
91.18
   Registration of Vacant Buildings, see
Ch. 98
   Sidewalks and curbs, see §
93.01
§ 151.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, M.S. §§
16B.59 through 16B.75, including all referenced amendments, rules and
regulations, as the same may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted
by reference except for the optional chapters set forth therein, unless such
optional chapters are otherwise specifically adopted by this chapter. The
following optional provisions of the Minnesota State Building Code are hereby
adopted and incorporated as part of the building code for Saint Michael: none.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration, and enforcement of the city’s building code shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code. The enforcement agency to
enforce building codes shall be the City of St. Michael by and through the
certified Building Official designated by the City of St. Michael. to
administer the building code, pursuant to M.S. § 16B.65, subd. 1.
   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of
related fees shall be as authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, subd. 1. Permit fees
shall be assessed for work governed by this chapter in accordance with the fee
schedule adopted by the City of St. Michael in Chapter 39 of this code. In
addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work
governed by this chapter, in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70.
(Ord. 119, passed 12-22-98; Am. Ord. 0201, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord. 0304,
passed 4-8-03; Am. Ord. 0702, passed 6-26-07)
§ 151.02 BUILDING CODE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Raising and demolition of buildings. No buildings or structures shall
be raised or demolished within the city without first applying for and securing
a permit therefor from the Building Official, and paying a fee in the amount
duly set by the City Council from time to time.
   (B)   Plans and specifications.
      (1)   With each application for a building permit, and when required by
the Building Official for enforcement of any provisions of this code, two sets
of plans and specifications shall be submitted, together with a certificate of
survey of the lot upon which the proposed building or construction is to be
done.
      (2)   All plans and specifications, except for single-family dwellings or
any other buildings the total cost of which does not exceed $30,000, or for any
other building exempted by statute, shall be prepared and signed by a
registered architect or a registered professional engineer duly qualified by
registration as required by M.S. § 326.02.
   (C)   Certificate of survey. The certificate of survey shall provide the
following information and be attested to by a registered land surveyor duly
qualified by registration as required by M.S. § 326.02.
      (1)   Scale of drawing.
      (2)   Legal description.
      (3)   Dimensions of the lot and north arrow.
      (4)   Dimensions of front, rear and side yards.
      (5)   Locations of all existing buildings on the lot.
      (6)   Location of the proposed buildings or construction.
      (7)   Location of stakes established by the surveyor along each side lot
line a distance of 35 feet, and 65 feet from the front lot corners. The
maintenance of these stakes, once established by the surveyor, shall be the
responsibility of the building permit applicant.
      (8)   Location and elevation of any existing foundation(s) and/or drain
ways adjacent to the parcel.
      (9)   The location of all easements as shown on record plats.
      (10)   Grade elevations of the following points:
         (a)   Each lot corner, either existing or proposed.
         (b)   Crown of proposed streets at each lot line extended.
         (c)   Proposed lawn and driveway elevation at the street side of the
building (driveway slopes shall not exceed 10% slope).
         (d)   Any catch basin or manhole.
         (e)   Any emergency overflow point.
         (f)   Top of foundation, garage floor, lowest floor, and lowest
opening.
         (g)   Elevations shall be based on sea level datum, and shall be tied
by the surveyor to a benchmark. The elevation shall be obtained from the
developer and the approved grading plan. When there is no development grading
plan, the City Engineer shall assist in establishing a benchmark elevation.
         (h)   An emergency spillway (emergency outlet) from ponding areas
shall be installed a minimum of one foot below the lowest building opening and
shall be designed to have a capacity to overflow water at an elevation below
the lowest building opening at a rate of not less than three times the 100-year
peak discharge rate from the basin or the anticipated 100-year peak inflow rate
to the basin, whichever is higher as determined by the City of St. Michael
Engineering Guidelines and the Comprehensive Storm Water Management Plan.
         (i)   The high water levels of the storm water ponding areas shall be
based on a 100-year storm. The minimum freeboard above the established high
water levels for the lowest building floor shall be two feet as determined by
the City of St. Michael Engineering Guidelines.
      (11)   The proposed disposal or drainage of surface waters (drainage
arrows shall indicate the direction of surface water).
         (a)   A permit is issued with the expectation that the relative
elevations of the proposed lot and the established or proposed street grade
shall not conflict in such a manner as to cause damage by altering the drainage
or flow of surface waters to the street or nearby streets or to adjacent or
nearby premises.
         (b)   All grades on drainage swales and driveways shall have a minimum
of 2% slope.
         (c)   All grades shall be maximum 3:1 slope. Grades exceeding 3:
1 shall require retaining walls or approved soil retention methods. When
retaining walls are required, location and height shall be noted. Retaining
walls in excess of four feet shall require and engineered design approved by
the City Engineer.
         (d)   The City Building Official may deny a permit for the
construction of a building or structure upon ground determined by the Building
Official to be too low for proper drainage. In the course of construction,
alteration, repair or moving of any building or structure, no obstruction,
diversion, ridging or defining (temporary or permanent) of the existing channel
or any natural waterway through or over which any lake, stream or surface water
naturally flows shall be made without approval of the City Engineer or other
city officials in possession of such information.
(Ord. 0201, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord. 0702, passed 6-26-07)
§ 151.03 GAS FITTING AND HEATING, VENTILATION AND AIR CONDITIONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GAS FITTER. Any person engaged in the business of installing, altering,
repairing, testing or extending any fuel tanks, power plants, gas or oil
burners, gas or oil piping, or gas appliance items or connection.
      HEATING, VENTILATION AND AIR CONDITIONING. Any person engaged in the
business of installing, altering and repairing all heating, ventilation and air
conditioning appliance items, connections and appendages, no matter what the
fuel source.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation,
limited liability company or other entity.
   (B)   City requirements. No person engaged in the business of gas fitter or
gas fueled heating, ventilation and air conditioning within the city shall
obtain a building permit from the city for each job to be performed. No such
person shall be issued a building permit unless the following requirements are
met:
      (1)   Such person has paid the city an annual processing fee in such
amount as set by the City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Such person provides proof that a bond has been filed with the
State Department of Labor and Industry as required by M.S. § 326.992.
      (3)   Such person files with the Building Official a certificated of
insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State
of Minnesota, evidencing that such person maintains public liability and
property damage insurance covering personal injury, including death, and claims
for property damage which may arise out of the work of such person or the work
of its subcontractors or by one directly or indirectly employed by such person.
The minimum limits of coverage for such insurance shall be:
         (a)   Each claim, at least $100,000.
         (b)   Each occurrence, at least $300,000.
         (c)   Property damage, at least $100,000.
      Such insurance shall be kept current and shall provide for written
notification to the city at least 15 days prior to termination, cancellation or
material change.
   (C)   No person that has been issued a building permit by the city shall
allow any other person to use its permit for doing any work covered by the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   A person engaged in the business of installation, alteration or repair
of non-gas heating, ventilation and air conditioning appliance items,
connection or appendages may be issued a building permit by the city without
showing compliance with the requirements set forth in division (B)(1) and (B)
(3).
(Am. Ord. 0201, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord. 0702, passed 6-26-07)
§ 151.04 ELECTRICAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose; application of this section.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to implement the provisions of the
Minnesota State Building Code and Minnesota Rules Chapter 1315 which adopts the
National Electrical Code.
      (2)   The provisions of this section shall apply to all installations of
electrical conductors, fittings, devices, fixtures hereinafter referred to as
"electrical equipment", within or on public and private buildings and premises,
with the following general exceptions. The provisions of this section do not
apply to the installations in mines, ships, railway cars, aircraft, automotive
equipment or the installations or equipment employed by a railway, electric or
communication utility in the exercise of its functions as a utility, except as
otherwise provided in this section.
      (3)   As used in this section, REASONABLY SAFE TO PERSONS AND PROPERTY as
applied to electrical installations and electrical equipment means safe to use
in the service for which the installation or equipment is intended without
unnecessary hazard to life, limb or property.
      (4)   For purposes of interpretation of the provisions of this section,
the most recently published edition of the National Electrical Code shall be
prima facie evidence of the definitions and scope of words and terms used in
this section.
   (B)   Electrical inspector, qualifications and appointment.
      (1)   Creation; qualifications. There is hereby created the office of
Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   The person chosen to fill the office of Electrical Inspector shall
be of good moral character, shall be possessed of such executive ability as is
requisite for the performance of his or her duties and shall have a thorough
knowledge of the standard materials and methods used in the installation of
electrical equipment; shall be well versed in approved methods of construction
for safety to persons and property; the statutes of the state relating to
electrical work and any orders, rules and regulations issued by authority
thereof; and the National Electrical Code as approved by the American Standards
Association; shall have two years' experience as an electrical inspector or
five years' experience in the installation of electrical equipment, or a
graduate mechanical or electrical engineer with two years of practical
electrical experience.
         (a)   Licensed inspector. The Electrical Inspector shall be a licensed
master or journeymen electrician as defined under Minnesota Statutes.
         (b)   Duties of the Electrical Inspector.  It shall be the duty of the
Inspector to enforce the provisions of this section. The Inspector shall, upon
application, grant permits for the installation or alteration of electrical
equipment, and shall make inspections of electrical installations, all as
provided in this section. The Inspector shall keep complete records of all
permits issued, inspections and reinsertions made and other official work
performed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
         (c)   No financial interest. It shall be unlawful for the Inspector to
engage in the sale, installation or maintenance of electrical equipment,
directly or indirectly, and the Inspector shall have no financial interest in
any concern engaged in any such business.
         (d)   Authority of Electrical Inspector. The Inspector shall have the
right during reasonable hours to enter any building or premises in the
discharge of his or her official duties, or for the purpose of making any
inspection, reinsertion or test of electrical equipment contained therein or
its installation. When any electrical equipment is found by the Inspector to be
dangerous to persons or property because it is defective or defectively
installed, the person responsible for the electrical equipment shall be
notified in writing and shall make any changes or repairs required in the
judgment of the Inspector to place such equipment in safe condition. If such
work is not completed within 15 days or any longer period that may be specified
by the Inspector in the notice, the Inspector shall have the authority to
disconnect or order discontinuance of electrical service to the electrical
equipment. In cases of emergency where necessary for safety to persons and
property, or where electrical equipment may interfere with the work of the Fire
Department, the Inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or cause
disconnection immediately of any electrical equipment.
   (C)   Standards for electrical equipment installation.
      (1)   All installations of electrical equipment shall be reasonably safe
to persons and property and in conformity with the provisions of this section
and the applicable statutes of the state and all orders, rules and regulations
issued by the authority thereof. All electrical equipment shall be listed and
labeled by a testing agency.
      (2)   Conformity of installations of electrical equipment with applicable
regulations set forth in the current National Electrical Code as adopted by the
Minnesota Rules shall be prima facie evidence that such installations are
reasonably safe to persons and property. Noncompliance with the provisions of
this section or the National Electrical Code as adopted by the Minnesota Rules
shall be prima facie evidence that the installation is not reasonably safe to
persons and property.
      (3)   The Electrical Inspector may, with approval of the Building
Official, authorize installations of special wiring methods other than herein
provided for.
      (4)   Buildings or structures moved from without to within and within the
limits of the city shall conform to all of the requirements of this Code for
new buildings or structures.
      (5)   Existing buildings or structures hereafter changed in use shall
conform in all respects to the requirements of this Code for the new use.
   (D)   Connections to installations.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make connections from a
supply of electricity to any electrical equipment for the installation of which
a permit is required or which has been disconnected or ordered to be
disconnected by the Electrical Inspector.
      (2)   The public or private utility providing services shall disconnect
the same upon a written order from the Electrical Inspector, if the Inspector
considers any electrical installation unsafe to life and property or installed
contrary to this Code.
   (E)   Permits and inspectors.
      (1)   Permit required. An electrical permit is required for each
installation, alteration, addition or repair of electrical work for light, heat
and power within the limits of the city. Permits for the installation of
electrical work in new structures shall only be issued to electrical
contractors duly licensed by the state. Permits for the installation,
alteration, addition or repair of electrical work in existing structures shall
only be issued to electrical contractors duly licensed by the state or to
resident owners of property where the work is to be done.
      (2)   Public service corporation exception. No permit shall be required
for electrical installations of equipment owned, leased, operated or maintained
by a public service corporation which is used by said corporation in the
performance of its function as a utility, except that such electrical
installation shall conform to the minimum standards of the National Electrical
Safety Code.
      (3)   Ownership. Ownership of any transmission or distribution lines or
appurtenances thereto, including, but not limited to, transformers, shall not
be transferred by a public service corporation to any person, except another
franchised public service corporation dealing in electric energy for
distribution and sale, without a permit first having been issued therefore by
the city. Such permit shall be issued only after the facilities to be
transferred have been inspected and approved as provided in this section and
upon payment of an inspection fee as set forth in this section of the section.
      (4)   Application and plans. Application for such permit, describing the
electrical work to be done, shall be made in writing, to the city by the person
so registered to do such work. The application shall be accompanied by such
plans, specifications and schedules as may be necessary to determine whether
the electrical installation as described will be in conformity with all the
legal requirements. The fees for electrical inspection as set forth in this
section shall accompany such application. If applicant has complied with all of
the provisions of this section, a permit for such electrical installation shall
be issued.
      (5)   Concealment. All electrical installations which involve the
concealment of wiring or equipment shall have a "rough-in" inspection prior to
concealment, wherein the Inspector shall be duly notified in advance, excluding
Saturday, Sunday and holidays.
      (6)   Inspection fees.
         (a)   Permits required. Before commencing any installation of any work
regulated by this section, a permit therefore shall be secured from the
Building Department and the fee for such permit paid. The fees schedule set
forth in M.S. § 326B.37 is adopted by reference and incorporated herein. No
such permit shall be issued to do any of the work or make any installation
regulated by this section except to persons licensed to do such work under the
terms of this section. Holders of a contractor's license shall not obtain
permits for electrical work unless the work is supervised by them and is
performed by workers employed by them or their firm.
         (b)   Fees double, when. Should any person begin work of any kind,
such as set forth in this section, or for which a permit from the Electrical
Inspector is required by ordinance, without having secured the necessary permit
therefore from the Inspector of Buildings either previous to or during the day
of the commencement of any such work, or on the next succeeding day where the
work is commenced on a Saturday or on a Sunday or a holiday, he or she shall,
when subsequently securing such permit, be required to pay double the fees
provided for such permit.
         (c)   Additional fees and/or shortages. Additional fees and/or fee
shortages must be received by the city within 14 days of written notice. If
additional fees and/or fee shortages are not received within 14 days of notice,
permits for electrical installations will not be accepted by the city until
such time as the additional fees and/or fee shortages are received.
      (7)   Electrical inspections.
         (a)   At regular intervals, the Electrical Inspector shall visit all
premises where work may be done under annual permits and shall inspect all
electrical equipment installed under such a permit since the day of his or her
last previous inspection, and shall issue a certificate of approval for such
work as is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this section, after
the fee required has been paid.
         (b)   When any electrical equipment is to be hidden from view by the
permanent placement of parts of the building, the person installing the
equipment shall notify the Electrical Inspector and the equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected and approved by the Electrical Inspector
or until 24 hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays, shall have
elapsed from the time of the scheduled inspection; provided, that on large
installations where the concealment of equipment proceeds continuously, the
person installing the electrical equipment shall give the Electrical Inspector
due notice and inspections shall be made periodically during the progress of
the work.
         (c)   If upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this section, the Electrical Inspector shall
at once forward to the person making the installation a written notice stating
the defects which have been found to exist.
(Ord. 1104, passed 7-7-11)
§ 151.05 VIOLATION AND PENALTY.
   A violation of any part of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, pursuant to
M.S. § 16B.69.
(Ord. 0702, passed 6-26-07)
CHAPTER 152: SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT AND STORMWATER SYSTEMS
Section
Surface Water Management General Provisions
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.015   Findings
   
152.02   Scope
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Financial securities
   
152.05   Notification of failure of the storm water pollution control plan
Storm Water Pollution Control Plan
   
152.15   Approval of plan by city required
   
152.16   General policy on storm water runoff rates
   
152.17   Storm water pollution control plan
   
152.18   Storm water pollution control plan criteria
   
152.19   Minimum storm water pollution control measures and related inspections
   
152.20   Permanent storm water pollution controls
   
152.21   Minimum design standards for storm water treatment practices
   
152.22   Protection for natural wetlands
   
152.23   Models/methodologies/computations
   
152.24   Variance
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.40   Review
   
152.41   Modification of plan
   
152.42   Enforcement
   
152.43   Right of entry and inspection
Storm Water Utility and Drainage Fees
   
152.70   Storm water utility establishment
   
152.71   Definitions
   
152.72   Storm water utility drainage fees
   
152.73   Storm water utility rate
   
152.74   Exemptions
   
152.75   Other land usage
   
152.76   Credits
   
152.77   Billing and payment
   
152.78   Establishment of fund
Illicit Discharge and Connection to the City’s Stormwater System
   
152.80   Purpose and intent
   
152.81   Definitions
   
152.82   Applicability
   
152.83   Responsibility for administration
   
152.84   Ultimate responsibility
   
152.85   Discharge prohibitions
   
152.86   Suspension of MS4 access
   
152.87   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
152.88   Monitoring of discharges
   
152.89   Requirement to prevent, control and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
152.90   Watercourse protection
   
152.91   Notification of spills
   
152.92   Notice of violation
   
152.93   Appeal of notice of violation
   
152.94   Enforcement after appeal
   
152.95   Cost of abatement of the violation/assessment
   
152.96   Legal action
   
152.97   Violations deemed a public nuisance
 
   
152.99   Penalty
SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control or eliminate storm water pollution
along with soil erosion and sedimentation within the city that would diminish
threats to public health, safety, public and private property and natural
resources of the community. It establishes standards and specifications for
conservation practices and planning activities, which minimize storm water
pollution, soil erosion and sedimentation.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 152.015 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The city encourages the design of storm water ponds to provide an
opportunity to enhance habitat and aesthetic features of the pond. This
includes providing upland buffers around the ponds, seeding the area with
native vegetation, and designing the slopes flatter than 3:1.
   (B)   The city hereby finds that uncontrolled and inadequately planned use
of wetlands, woodlands, natural habitat areas, areas subject to soil erosion
and areas containing restrictive soils adversely affects the public health,
safety and general welfare by impacting water quality and contributing to other
environmental problems, creating nuisances, impairing other beneficial uses of
environmental resources and hindering the ability of the city to provide
adequate water, sewage, flood control, and other community services. In
addition, extraordinary public expenditures may be required for the protection
of persons and property in such areas and in areas that may be affected by
unplanned land usage.
(Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 152.02 SCOPE.
   Except where a variance is granted, any person, firm, sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporation, state agency, or political subdivision proposing a
land disturbance activity within the city shall apply to the city for the
approval of the storm water pollution control plan. No land shall be disturbed
until the plan is approved by the city and conforms to the standards set forth
herein.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When not
inconsistent with the context, words used in the present tense include the
future tense, words in the plural number include the singular number, and words
in the singular number include the plural number. The words “shall” and “must”
are always mandatory and not merely directive.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity that applies for a building permit,
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land disturbing activities.
APPLICANT also means that person’s agents, employees and others acting under
that person’s direction.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES. (BMP’S) Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing, and minimizing degradation of surface water,
including construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published by state or
designated area-wide planning agencies. (Examples of BMP’s can be found in the
current versions of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s, “Protecting Water
Quality in Urban Areas,” and the same agency’s “Storm-Water and Wetlands:
Planning and Evaluation Guidelines for Addressing Potential Impacts of Urban
Storm-Water and Snow-Melt Runoff on Wetlands,” the United States Environmental
Protection Agency’s, “Storm Water Management for Construction Activities:
Developing Pollution Prevention Plans and Best Management Practices,” (as a
reference for BMP’s) and the Minnesota Department of Transportation’s, “Erosion
Control Design Manual.”) BMP’s also include treatment practices and operating
procedures and practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or
water disposal and drainage from raw materials storage.
   CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to control erosion
and attendant pollution.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or manmade structure, including
wetlands, for the temporary storage of runoff that contains a permanent pool of
water.
   DEVELOPER. A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land disturbance
activity.
   DISCHARGE. The conveyance, channeling, runoff, or drainage, of storm water,
including snow melt, from a construction site.
   ENERGY DISSIPATION. This refers to methods employed at pipe outlets to
prevent erosion. Examples include, but are not limited to; aprons, riprap,
splash pads, and gabions that are designed to prevent erosion.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action
of water, wind, ice, or gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the activities
of people and nature.
   EROSION CONTROL. Refers to methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples
include soil stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or
permanent cover, and construction phasing.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT PRACTICE SPECIFICATIONS OR PRACTICE. The management
procedures, techniques, and methods to control soil erosion and sedimentation
as officially adopted by the either the city of local watershed group,
whichever is more stringent.
   EXPOSED SOIL AREAS. All areas of the construction site where the vegetation
(including trees, shrubs, and brush) has been removed. This includes topsoil
stockpile areas, borrow areas and disposal areas within the construction site.
   FILTER STRIPS. A vegetated section of land designed to treat runoff as
overland sheet flow. They may be designed in any natural vegetated form from a
grassy meadow to a small forest. Their dense vegetated cover facilitates
pollutant removal and infiltration.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed, and that a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of 75%
of the cover for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures
has been established or equivalent permanent stabilization measures have been
employed.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse, the bed of water basins, and those
portions of the adjoining floodplains that are reasonably required to carry and
discharge floodwater and provide water storage during a regional flood.
   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough
during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic plant life growing in water, soil or on
a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of
excessive water content.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters or lands
within the city’s jurisdiction, including clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavating, transporting and filling of land. Land disturbance activity does
not mean:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and
individuals home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work.
      (2)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of electric, telephone,
and cable television utility lines or individual service connection to these
utilities, except where a minimum of 5,000 square feet of land disturbance can
be anticipated.
      (3)   Tilling, planting, or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural, or
silvicultural crops.
      (4)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles.
      (5)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property and emergency
repairs, unless the land disturbing activity would have required an approved
erosion and sediment control plan, except for the emergency, then the land area
disturbed must be shaped and stabilized in accordance with the city’s
requirements.
   PERMANENT COVER. “Final Stabilization.” Examples include grass, gravel,
asphalt, and concrete.
   PAVED SURFACE. A constructed hard, smooth surface made of asphalt, concrete
or other pavement material. Examples include, but are not limited to, roads,
sidewalks, driveways and parking lots.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood that is representative of large floods know to have
occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can be
expected in a 100-year flood occurrence.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or manmade structure that provides
for the storage of stormwater runoff by means of a permanent pool of water.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. The average annual fraction of total precipitation that
is not infiltrated into or otherwise retained by the soil, concrete, asphalt or
other surface upon which it falls that will appear at the conveyance as runoff.
   SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral and
organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by
water, air, or ice, and has come to rest on the earth’s surface either above or
below water level.
   SEDIMENTATION. Sedimentation means the process or action of depositing
sediment caused by erosion.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. The methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
site. Sediment control practices include silt fences, sediment traps, earth
dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope drains, storm
drain inlet protection, and temporary or permanent sedimentation basins.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth. For the purposes of this document stockpiles of sand,
gravel, aggregate, concrete or bituminous materials are not considered “soil”
stockpiles.
   STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface after it has been covered by sod,
erosion control blanket, rip rap, or other material that prevents erosion from
occurring. Grass seed is not considered stabilization.
   STORM WATER. The precipitation runoff, storm water runoff, snow melt runoff,
and any other surface runoff and drainage.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN. A joint storm water and erosion and
sediment control plan that is a document containing the requirements of §§
152.15 through
152.24 that when implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land and
off-site nonpoint pollution and sediment damages.
   STRUCTURE. Anything manufactured, constructed or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures, earthen
structures, roads, parking lots, and paved storage areas.
   TEMPORARY PROTECTION. The methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples of
such protect include; straw, mulch, erosion control blankets, wood chips, and
erosion netting.
   URBAN. Of, relating to, characteristic of, constituting a city.
   VEGETATED OR GRASSED SWALES. A vegetated earthen channel that conveys storm
water, while treating the storm water by biofiltration. Pollutants are removed
by both filtration and infiltration.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. As defined in M.S. § 115.01, subdivision 22 the term “.
. . waters of the state" means all streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof.”
Commentary:
   Constructed wetlands designed for wastewater treatment are not waters of the
state. See the definition of “wetlands.”
   WET DETENTION FACILITY. A permanent man-made structure for the temporary
storage of runoff that contains a permanent pool of water.
   WETLANDS. As defined in Minnesota Rules 7050.0130, subpart F “. . .
wetlands" are those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions. Wetlands generally include swamps,
marshes, bogs, and similar areas. Constructed wetlands designed for wastewater
treatment are not waters of the state. Wetlands must have the following
attributes:
      (1)   A predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in a saturated soil condition; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such vegetation.
Commentary:
   A quick reference of what is an existing identified wetland is the National
Wetlands Inventory maps distributed by the U.S. Department of the Interior’s
Fish and Wildlife Service. They list most, but not necessarily all wetlands.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 1201, passed
- -)
§ 152.04 FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   (A)   Securities; form of. The applicant shall provide security for the
performance of the work described and delineated on the approved grading plan
involving the storm water pollution control plan and any storm water and
pollution control plan related remedial work in an amount of $3,000 per gross
acre or $1,000 for each single or twin family home, whichever is greater. This
security must be submitted to the city prior to commencing the project. The
form of the securities must be one or a combination of the following to be
determined by the city:
      (1)   Cash. A minimum of $3,000 of the financial security for erosion
control must be by cash deposit to the city.
      (2)   Bonds, instruments of credit. Deposit, either with the city, a
responsible escrow agent, or trust company, at the option of the city, money,
negotiable bonds of the kind approved for securing deposits of public money or
other instruments of credit from one or more financial institutions, subject to
regulation by the state and federal government wherein said financial
institution pledges funds are on deposit and guaranteed for payment.
   (B)   Maintaining the financial security. If at anytime during the course of
the work the cash deposit or entire deposit amount falls below 50% of the
required deposits, the developer shall make another deposit in the amount
necessary to restore the cash deposit to the required amount. If the developer
does not bring the financial security back up to the required amount within
seven days after notification by the city that the amount has fallen below 50%
of the required amount the city may:
      (1)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the site
in question or any other of the applicant’s sites within the city’s
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Action against the financial security. The city may act against the
financial security if any of the conditions listed below exist. The city shall
use funds from this security to finance remedial work undertaken by the city or
a private contractor under contract to the city and to reimburse the city for
all direct cost incurred in the process of remedial work including, but not
limited to, staff time and attorney's fees.
      (1)   The developer ceases land disturbing activities and/or filling and
abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
      (2)   The developer fails to conform to the grading plan and/or the storm
water pollution control plan as approved by the city.
      (3)   The techniques utilized under the storm water pollution control
plan fail within one year of installation.
      (4)   The developer fails to reimburse the city for corrective action
taken under §
152.05.
   (D)   Returning the financial security. The security deposited with the city
for faithful performance of the storm water pollution control plan and any
storm water and pollution control plan related remedial work to finance
necessary remedial work must be released one full year after the completion of
the installation of all storm water pollution control measures as shown on the
grading and/or the storm water pollution control plan.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.05 NOTIFICATION OF FAILURE OF THE STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN.
   The city shall notify the permit holder of the failure of the storm water
pollution control plan’s measures.
   (A)   Notification by the city. The initial contact will be by phone to the
parties listed on the application and/or the storm water pollution control
plan. Twenty-four hours after notification by the city or 72 hours after the
failure of erosion control measures, the city, at its discretion, may begin
corrective work.
   (B)   Erosion off-site. If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site, the
applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain the
right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup and
restoration plan within 48 hours of obtaining the adjoining property owner’s
permission. In no case, unless written approval is received from the city, may
more than seven calendar days go by without corrective action being taken. If
in the discretion of the city, the applicant does not repair the damage caused
by the erosion, the city may do the remedial work required and charge the cost
to the applicant.
   (C)   Erosion into streets, wetlands or water bodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands, or other water bodies, prevention strategies,
cleanup and repair must be immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic
control and flagging required to protect the traveling public during the
cleanup operations.
   (D)   Failure to do corrective work. When an applicant fails to conform to
any provision of this policy within the time stipulated, the city may take the
following actions:
      (1)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the site
in question or any other of the applicant’s sites with in the city’s
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Direct the correction of the deficiency by city forces or by a
separate contract. The issuance of a permit constitutes a right-of-entry for
the city or its contractor to enter upon the construction site for the purpose
of correcting deficiencies in erosion control.
      (4)   All costs incurred by the city in correcting storm water pollution
control deficiencies must be reimbursed by the applicant. If payment is not
made within 30 days after costs are incurred by the city, payment will be made
from the applicant’s financial securities as described in §
152.04.
      (5)   If there is an insufficient financial amount, in the applicant’s
financial securities as described in §
152.04, to cover the costs incurred by the city, then the city may assess the
remaining amount against the property. As a condition of the permit, the owner
shall waive notice of any assessment hearing to be conducted by the city,
concur that the benefit to the property exceeds the amount of the proposed
assessment, and waive all rights by virtue of M.S. § 429.081 to challenge the
amount or validity of assessment.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0302, passed 4-8-03)
STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN
§ 152.15 APPROVAL OF PLAN BY CITY REQUIRED.
   Every applicant for a building permit, subdivision approval, or a permit to
allow land disturbing activities must submit a storm water pollution control
plan to the City Engineer. Submitted stormwater pollution control plans must
meet the provisions specified in the city’s Engineering Guidelines. No building
permit, subdivision approval, or permit to allow land disturbing activities
must be issued until the city approves this plan.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 1501, passed 1-27-15)
§ 152.16 GENERAL POLICY ON STORM WATER RUNOFF RATES.
   Storm water runoff rates must not increase over the predevelopment two-year,
ten-year and 100- year storm peak discharge rates as outlined in the city’s
Engineering Guidelines. Also accelerated channel erosion must not occur as a
result of the proposed activity.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 1501, passed
1-27-15)
§ 152.17 STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN.
   The storm water pollution control plan must include:
   (A)   Project description. The nature and purpose of the land disturbing
activity and the amount of grading, utilities, and building construction
involved.
   (B)   Phasing of construction. Time frames and schedules for the project’s
various aspects.
   (C)   A map of the existing site conditions. Existing topography, property
information, steep slopes, existing drainage systems/patterns, type of soils,
waterways, wetlands, vegetative cover, 100-year flood plain boundaries.
   (D)   Site construction plan. A site construction plan that includes the
proposed land disturbing activities, stockpiles, erosion and sediment control
plan, construction schedule, and the maintenance and inspection of the storm
water pollution control measures.
   (E)   Adjacent areas. Neighboring streams, lakes, residential areas, roads,
etc., which might be affected by the land disturbing activity.
   (F)   Erosion potential. Designate the site’s areas with the potential for
serious erosion problems.
   (G)   Erosion and sediment control measures. The methods that will be used
to control erosion and sedimentation on the site, both during and after the
construction process.
   (H)   Permanent stabilization. How the site will be stabilized after
construction is completed, including specifications, time frames or schedule.
   (I)   Calculations. Any that were made for the design of such items as
sediment basins, wet detention basins, diversions, waterways, infiltration
zones and other applicable practices.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.18 STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN CRITERIA.
   Plans must follow the requirements stated within the city’s Engineering
Guidelines. The plan must address the following:
   (A)   Stabilizing all exposed soils and soil stockpiles and the related time
frame or schedule.
   (B)   Establishing permanent vegetation and the related time frame or
schedule.
   (C)   Preventing sediment damage to adjacent properties and other designated
areas such as streams, wetlands, lakes and unique vegetation (e.g., oak groves,
rare and endangered species habitats.)
   (D)   Scheduling for erosion and sediment control practices.
   (E)   Where permanent and temporary sedimentation basins will be located.
   (F)   Engineering the construction and stabilization of steep slopes.
   (G)   Measures that will control the quality and quantity of storm water
leaving a site.
   (H)   Stabilizing all waterways and outlets.
   (I)   Protecting storm sewers from the entrance of sediment.
   (J)   What precautions will be taken to contain sediment when working in or
crossing water bodies
   (K)   Restabilizing utility construction areas as soon as possible.
   (L)   Protecting paved roads from sediment and mud brought in from access
routes.
   (M) Disposing of temporary erosion and sediment control measures.
   (N)   How the temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
will be maintained.
   (O)   How collected sediment and floating debris will be disposed of.
   (P)   Modification of plan. The applicant must amend the erosion and
sediment control plan as necessary to include additional requirements such as
additional or modified best management practices designed to correct problems
identified or address situations wherever:
      (1)   A change in design, construction, operation, maintenance, weather,
or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge of
pollutants to surface waters or underground waters.
      (2)   Inspections indicate the plan is not effective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing the discharge of pollutants to surface waters or
underground waters or that the discharges are causing water quality standard
exceedances.
      (3)   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of controlling
pollutants or is not consistent with the terms and conditions of this permit.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 1501, passed 1-27-15)
§ 152.19 MINIMUM STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL MEASURES AND RELATED
INSPECTIONS.
   These minimum control measures are required where bare soil is exposed. Due
to the diversity of individual construction sites, each site will be
individually evaluated. Where additional control measures are needed, they will
be specified at the discretion of the City Engineer. The city will determine
what action is necessary to prevent excessive erosion from occurring on the
site. All stormwater pollution control measures must be in compliance with the
city’s Engineering Guidelines.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 1501, passed 1-27-15)
§ 152.20 PERMANENT STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROLS.
   (A)   The applicant shall install or construct, or pay the city fees for all
storm water management facilities necessary to manage increased runoff, so that
the two-year, ten-year, and 100-year storm peak discharge rates existing before
the proposed development must not be increased. Also accelerated channel
erosion must not occur as a result of the proposed land disturbing or
development activity. An applicant may also make an in-kind or a monetary
contribution to the development and maintenance of community storm water
management facilities designed to serve multiple land disturbing and
development activities undertaken by one or more persons, including the
applicant.
   (B)   Infiltration of treated stormwater is required whenever new
development results in an increase in the stormwater runoff volume and when
redevelopment maintains or increases the stormwater runoff volume provided that
past and existing land use practices do not have limitations and restrictions
as described in the city’s Engineering Guidelines.
   (C)   The city will require new development to infiltrate storm water runoff
in all areas except where either there are limitations or restrictions as
described in the city’s Engineering Guidelines. For projects that use
infiltration, the following policies apply:
      (1)   Pretreatment of storm water to NURP guidelines will be required
prior to discharge to an infiltration basin.
      (2)   The infiltration basin will be sized to infiltrate the runoff from
the impervious surface area as required in the city’s Engineering Guidelines.
      (3)   Infiltration rates of the soil shall adhere to the city’s
Engineering Guidelines:
 
Hydrologic Soil Group Infiltration Rate
A                     0.50 in/hr
B                     0.25 in/hr
C                     0.10 in/hr
D                     0.03 in/hr
 
   (D)   The applicant shall consider reducing the need for storm water
management facilities by incorporating the use of natural topography and land
cover such as natural swales and depressions as they exist before development
to the degree that they can accommodate the additional flow of water without
compromising the integrity or quality of the wetland or pond.
Commentary:
   The sensitivity of a wetland to degradation varies with the type of
vegetation. Sedge meadows, open bogs and swamps, coniferous bogs, calcareous
fens, low prairies, lowland hardwood swamps, and seasonally flooded basins are
highly sensitive to degradation, while flood plain forests, reed canary grass
meadows, shallow (reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed or purple loosestrife)
marshes are only slightly sensitive to degradation. See the current version of
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication “Storm-Water and Wetlands:
Planning and Evaluation Guidelines for Addressing Potential Impacts of Urban
Storm-Water and Snow-Melt Runoff on Wetlands” for details.
   (E)   The following storm water management practices must be investigated in
developing the storm water management part of the storm water pollution control
plan in the following descending order of preference:
      (1)   Protect and preserve as much natural or vegetated area on the site
as possible, minimizing impervious surfaces, and directing runoff to vegetated
areas rather than to adjoining streets, storm sewers and ditches to promote the
infiltration of water;
      (2)   Flow attenuation by use of open vegetated swales and natural
depressions;
      (3)   Storm water wet detention facilities; and
      (4)   A combination of successive practices may be used to achieve the
applicable minimum control requirements specified in division (A) above.
      (5)   The applicant shall provide justification for the method selected.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 1501, passed
1-27-15)
§ 152.21 MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS FOR STORM WATER TREATMENT PRACTICES.
   These facilities must conform to city’s Engineering Guidelines for permanent
stormwater facilities as well as the most current technology as reflected in
the current version of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication,
“Minnesota Stormwater Manual” and the current requirements found in the same
agency’s NPDES permits for storm water associated with construction activities.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08; Am. Ord. 1501, passed
1-27-15)
§ 152.22 PROTECTION FOR NATURAL WETLANDS.
   (A)   All land disturbance activities on property with wetlands must follow
§
155.341 of the City of St. Michael Zoning Ordinance (Wetland System District).
   (B)   Runoff must not be discharged directly into wetlands without
appropriate quality and quantity runoff control, depending on the individual
wetland’s vegetation. See the current version of the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency’s publication, Storm-Water and Wetlands: Planning and Evaluation
Guidelines for Addressing Potential Impacts of Urban Storm-Water and Snow-Melt
Runoff on Wetlands for guidance.
Commentary:
   The sensitivity of a wetland to degradation varies with vegetation type.
Sedge meadows, open bogs and swamps, coniferous bogs, calcareous fens, low
prairies, lowland hardwood swamps, and seasonally flooded basins are highly
sensitive to degradation, while flood plain forests, reed canary grass meadows,
shallow reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed or purple loosestrife) marshes
are only slightly sensitive to degradation.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.23 MODELS/METHODOLOGIES/COMPUTATIONS.
   Hydrologic models and design methodologies used for the determining runoff
characteristics and analyzing storm water management structures must be
approved by the City Engineer. Plans, specifications and computations for storm
water management facilities submitted for review must be sealed and signed by a
registered professional engineer. All computations must appear on the plans
submitted for review, unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.24 VARIANCE.
   Where in the judgment of a registered professional engineer, experienced in
the field of storm water and erosion and sediment control, site conditions
warrant or where the practices or practice standards will be insufficient to
control erosion and sedimentation for a land disturbance activity, the City
Engineer may grant a variance on a case-by-case basis. The content of a
variance must be specific, and must not affect other approved provisions of a
plan.
   (A)   The variance request must be in writing.
   (B)   The variance must be in writing and include the reason for granting
the variance.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.40 REVIEW.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall review the storm water pollution control plan.
This review must be completed within 14 days of receiving the plan from the
developer.
   (B)   If the city determines that the storm water pollution control plan
meets the requirements of this chapter, the city shall issue a permit valid for
a specified period of time, that authorizes the land disturbance activity
contingent on the implementation and completion of this plan.
   (C)   If the city determines that the storm water pollution control plan
does not meet the requirements of this chapter, the city shall not issue a
permit for the land disturbance activity. This plan must be resubmitted for
approval before the land disturbance activity begins.
   (D)   All land use and building permits must be suspended until the
developer has an approved storm water pollution control plan.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.41 MODIFICATION OF PLAN.
   An approved storm water pollution control plan may be modified on submission
of an application for modification to the city, and after approval by the City
Engineer. In reviewing such an application, the City Engineer may require
additional reports and data.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
§ 152.42 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible enforcing this chapter.
   (B)   The city will work with the MPCA to develop Total Maximum Daily Load
(TDML) plans for on the listed impaired waters in the city.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00; Am. Ord. 0802, passed 3-11-08)
§ 152.43 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   The applicant shall allow the city and their authorized representatives,
upon presentation of credentials:
   (A)   To enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations, surveys or
investigations.
   (B)   To bring such equipment upon the permitted development as is necessary
to conduct such surveys and investigations.
   (C)   To examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of this permitted site.
   (D)   To inspect the storm water pollution control measures required in this
permit.
   (E)   To sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to permits
issued by the city.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
STORM WATER UTILITY AND DRAINAGE FEES
§ 152.70 STORM WATER UTILITY ESTABLISHMENT.
   A municipal storm water utility is hereby established and shall be operated
as a public utility pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from time
to time, from which revenues will be derived subject to the provisions of this
chapter and Minnesota Statues.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
§ 152.71 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rates and charges for the use and availability of the utility system
shall be determined through the use of a residential equivalent factor (REF)
defined as the ratio of the average volume of run off generated by an average
residential unit.
   (B)   The charge to an average residential unit shall be the storm water
utility rate.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
§ 152.72 STORM WATER UTILITY DRAINAGE FEES.
   Storm water utility fees are drainage fees for parcels of land and shall be
determined by multiplying the REF for the parcel’s land use classification by
the parcel’s acreage and then multiplying the resulting product by storm water
utility rate. The REF values for various land uses are as follows:
      Land Use                               REF
      Residential (Single-Family, Duplex, Townhome)               1
      Commercial/Industrial/Institutional/Golf Course/
      Condos/Apartments—
         One Acre or Less                         2
         One to Five Acres                         4
         More than Five Acres                         6
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
§ 152.73 STORM WATER UTILITY RATE.
   The storm water utility rate charge, as set by City Council resolution from
time to time, shall become effective on January 1, 2004, and shall be charged
to all parcels not listed as exempt in §
152.74.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
§ 152.74 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following land uses are exempt from storm water utility fees:
   (A)   A-1 Zoned Agricultural Land; except for properties less than ten acres
unless the owner thereof provides documented proof that the property is in use
as an active agricultural farmland/farmstead and that the tax classification is
registered as agricultural farmland/farmstead by Wright County;
   (B)   Public Rights-of-Way;
   (C)   Railroad Rights-of-Way;
   (D)   State Owned Property;
   (E)   Vacant Land (such as Undeveloped Land);
   (F)   Unoccupied Public Land (such as Open Space, Parks).
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 1401, passed 1-28-14)
§ 152.75 OTHER LAND USAGE.
   The storm water utility fee applicable to land uses not specifically listed
in §§
154.72 and
154.74 shall be determined by the City Engineer based on comparable amounts of
impervious coverage and parcel size. An appeal of such determination by the
City Engineer may be made to the City Council.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
§ 152.76 CREDITS.
   (A)   The City Engineer may adjust the REF for parcels of land (other than
Residential (Single- Family, Duplex, Townhome) if the City Engineer determines
that the impervious surface of the land is substantially different from the REF
being used for comparable parcels. Information and hydrologic data must be
supplied by the property owner(s) to demonstrate that a fee adjustment is
warranted. Adjustments to an individual REF shall not be made retroactively.
Appeals of the City Engineer’s determination shall be made to the City Council.
   (B)   The Council may adopt, from time to time, by resolution an incentive
or credit program which would allow for the reduction of storm water utility
fees for individual parcels of land. The maximum reduction for any parcel shall
be 20%.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
§ 152.77 BILLING AND PAYMENT.
   Storm water utility fees shall be computed and billed periodically along
with the utility bill for other utility services such as water and sanitary
sewer. If a parcel of land subject to the storm water utility fee is not served
by other utilities, a separate bill shall be issued quarterly by the city. Each
billing for storm water utility fees which is not paid when due shall incur a
penalty charge in an amount as adopted in the annual fee schedule. If storm
water utility fees are not paid within three months after billing is issued,
the city shall certify the amount due, together with penalties, to the County
Auditor to be collected with other real estate taxes on the parcel.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03; Am. Ord. 1401, passed 1-28-14)
§ 152.78 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   All fees collected for the storm water utility shall be placed in a fund for
storm water purposes as permitted by M.S. § 444.075, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 0316, passed 12-9-03)
ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION TO THE CITY’S STORMWATER SYSTEM
§ 152.80 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety,
and general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
storm water discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This subchapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the storm drainage
system in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit process.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the storm drainage
system by stormwater discharges by any user.
      (2)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the storm
drainage system.
      (3)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
subchapter.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.81 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY.  The City of St. Michael.
   CLEAN WATER ACT.  The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES construction permits
resulting in land disturbance of one acre or more. Such activities include but
are not limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, that because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE.  Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
MS4, except as exempted in this section.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.  Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or
subsurface, that allows an illegal discharge to enter the MS4 including but not
limited to any conveyance that allows any non-storm water discharge including
sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the MS4 and any connection
to the MS4 from an indoor drain or sink, regardless of whether the drain, sink
or connection had been previously allowed, permitted, or approved by the city
or, any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial land use
to the MS4 that has not been documented in plans, maps, or equivalent records
and approved by the city.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY.  Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, § 122.26(b)(14).
   MS4.  Municipal separate storm sewer system, also known as and referred to
as a storm drain system or a storm drainage system.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT.  A permit issued by MPCA that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE.  Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON.  Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity.
   POLLUTANT.  Anything that causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes and
residues that result from constructing a building or structure; and noxious or
offensive matter of any kind that, because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly
contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
safety, property or the environment, or that may degrade, impair or pollute
ground or surface waters.
   POLLUTION.  Contaminating the soil, water or air with noxious substances.
   PREMISES.  Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved, including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.  Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any roads with drainage
systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm drains, pumping
facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-made or altered
drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORMWATER.  Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN.  A document that describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER.  Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from any premises.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.82 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any premises unless explicitly exempted by the city.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.83 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The city shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of this
subchapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the city may be delegated
in writing by the City Administrator to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.84 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore these sections do not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, or unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.85 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges. No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses any
materials, including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any
pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards, other than storm water. The commencement, conduct or continuance of
any illegal discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited, except as
described as follows:
      (1)   Water line flushing or other potable water sources, landscape
irrigation or lawn watering, diverted stream flows, rising ground water, ground
water infiltration to storm drains, uncontaminated pumped ground water,
foundation or footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering
systems), crawl space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs,
noncommercial washing of vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wet-land flows,
swimming pools (if dechlorinated to less than 0.1 PPM chlorine), fire-fighting
activities, any other water source not containing pollutants, and the use of
fertilizers, herbicides and pesticides for agricultural or landscaping purposes
when applied for their intended purpose in accordance with label directions and
in compliance with all applicable local, state and federal ordinances, laws and
regulations.
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by city as being necessary to
protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Dye testing if verbal notification is given to the city prior to
the time of the test.
      (4)   Any non-storm water discharge permitted under an NPDES permit,
waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and administered
under the authority of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided
that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that
prior written approval has been granted by the city for any discharge to the
storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of an
illicit connection to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, a
connection made prior to the enactment of this section, regardless of whether
the connection was permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing
at the time of the connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this section if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.86 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to an illicit discharge in an emergency situation. The
City Council or City Engineer may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge that, in the determination of the City Engineer, presents
or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or to the
health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of the United States. If
the violator fails to comply with a suspension order issued in an emergency,
the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps as it deems necessary to
prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the United States, or if
determined by the City Engineer to be necessary to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of an illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have their MS4
access terminated if the City Engineer determines that such termination would
abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The city will notify the responsible
person of the proposed termination of its MS4 access. The responsible person
may petition the city for reconsideration and a hearing. A person commits an
offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to
this section, without the prior written approval of the city.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.87 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of the permit. Proof of
compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the City
Council prior to the allowing of a discharge to the MS4.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.88 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all premises that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to premises.
      (1)   The city shall be permitted to enter and inspect premises subject
to regulation under this subchapter as often as may be necessary to determine
compliance therewith. If a discharger has security measures in force that
require proper identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the
discharger shall make the necessary arrangements to allow unimpeded access to
representatives of the city.
      (2)   A person responsible for a discharge shall allow the city ready
access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling,
examination and copying of records that must be kept under the conditions of an
NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the performance of any additional
duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The city shall have the right to install upon any premises such
devises as are determined by the city to be necessary to conduct monitoring
and/or sampling of storm water discharge from the premises.
      (4)   The city may require the person responsible for a discharge to
install monitoring equipment upon the premises as determined by the city to be
necessary to conduct monitoring or sampling of storm water discharge from the
premises. Such sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own
expense. All devises used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be
calibrated to ensure accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and unimpeded access
to the premises to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
person responsible for the premises promptly upon written or oral request of
the city and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be
borne by the person responsible for the premises.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city access to the premises is
a violation of a storm water discharge permit and of this subchapter. A person
who is the operator of the premises with a NPDES permit to discharge storm
water associated with industrial activity commits an offense if the person
denies the city reasonable access to the premises for the purpose of conducting
any activity authorized or required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the city has been refused access to any part of the premises
from which stormwater is discharged, and the city has probable cause to believe
that there may be a violation of this subchapter, or that there is a need to
inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling program
designed to verify compliance with this subchapter or any order issued
hereunder, or to protect the overall public health, safety and welfare of the
community, then the city may seek the issuance of a search warrant from any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.89 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The city will adopt requirements identifying best management practices
(BMPs) of any activity, operation, or facility that may cause or contribute to
pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of
the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment
operated upon a premises shall provide, at the owner's or operator's expense,
reasonable protection from accidental discharge of pollutants into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise that is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge, may
be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural and
non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the MS4.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of storm water associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliant with the provisions of this subchapter.
These BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.90 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning premises through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the premises free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.91 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a premises has information of any known or suspected release of hazardous
materials that are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S. said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
said person shall immediately notify the city of the occurrence via emergency
dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said
person shall notify the city in person or by phone or facsimile no later than
the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed
by written notice addressed and mailed to the city within three business days
of the notice given in person or by phone. If the discharge of prohibited
materials emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or
operator of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of
the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records
shall be retained for at least three years.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.92 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Whenever the city finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed
to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the city may order compliance by
written notice of violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require
without limitation:
   (A)   The performance of monitoring, analysis, and reporting;
   (B)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
   (C)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
   (D)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or contamination
hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
   (E)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs. If abatement
of a violation and/or restoration of affected property are required, the notice
shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be
completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to
remediate or restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by
a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the expense thereof shall
be charged to the violator.
   (F)   The notice shall state that the determination of violation may be
appealed to the City Administrator by filing with the City Clerk a written
notice of appeal within seven calendar days of service of the notice of
violation.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.93 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the city by filing a notice of appeal with the City Clerk not later than seven
calendar days from the date of the notice of violation. A hearing on the appeal
shall take place before the City Administrator or the City Administrator's
designee not later than seven calendar days from the date of the City Clerk's
receipt of the notice of appeal. The decision of the City Administrator or City
Administrator's designee shall be final.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.94 ENFORCEMENT AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 15 days
of the decision on the appeal, then representatives of the city may enter upon
the subject premises and may take any and all measures determined by the city
to be necessary to abate the violation and/or restore the premises. It shall be
unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises
to refuse to allow the city or the city's designated contractor to enter upon
the premises for the purposes set forth herein.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.95 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION/ASSESSMENT.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the premises
shall be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. If
the amount due is not paid within 30 days after the owner has been notified by
the city of the amount due, the city may levy the charges as a special
assessment against the premises, which assessments shall constitute a lien on
the premises for the amount of the assessment.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12; Am. Ord. 1904, passed 10-22-19)
§ 152.96 LEGAL ACTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If a person has
violated and continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the city
may seek a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create any further violation or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation, or seek any other available
remedy in law or equity. Any person violating any provision or failing to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter shall be personally
liable for all costs and expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by the
city in enforcing this subchapter.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.97 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is
declared and deemed a public nuisance, and may be summarily abated at the
violator's expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel
the cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 1201, passed 12-11-12)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with or violating any of
these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
punished as provided in §
10.99. All land use and building permits must be suspended until the developer
has corrected the violation. Each day that a separate violation exists shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 128, passed 2-8-00)
CHAPTER 153: TOWERS AND WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
153.01   Title and purpose
   
153.02   Enforcement
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Application procedures and approval process
   
153.05   Location and design requirements
   
153.06   Prohibitions
   
153.07   District provisions
   
153.08   Nonconforming antennas and towers
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall officially be known, cited and referred to as the
City of St. Michael Tower and Wireless Facility Ordinance.
   (B)   In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and
business while protecting the public health, safety, and general welfare of the
community, the Council finds that these regulations are necessary in order to:
      (1)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to
the residents and businesses of the city;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design
and siting standards;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and,
      (4)   Maximize and encourage the use of buildings and existing or
approved towers to accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order
to reduce the number of towers needed to serve the community and minimize their
visual impact.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99)
§ 153.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   The enforcement of these regulations shall be the responsibility of the
Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including but not limited to directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and omni-
directional antennas, such as whip antennas.
   ANTENNA HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the base of the antenna
support structure at grade to the highest point of the structure. If the
support structure is on a sloped grade, then the average between the highest
and lowest grades shall be used in calculating the antenna height.
   CO-LOCATION. Locating wireless communications equipment from more than one
provider on a single site.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   COMMUNICATION TOWER. A guyed, monopole, or self-supporting tower,
constructed as a free standing structure or in association with a building,
other permanent structure or equipment, containing one or more antennas
intended for transmitting and/or receiving television, AM/FM radio, digital,
microwave, cellular, telephone, or similar forms of electronic communication.
   GUYED TOWER. A communication tower that is supported, in whole or in part,
by guy wires and ground anchors.
   LATTICE TOWER. A guyed or self-supporting three or four sided, open, steel
frame structure used to support telecommunications equipment.
   MICROWAVE. Electromagnetic radiation with frequencies higher than 1,000 MHz;
highly directional signal used to transmit radio frequencies from point-to-
point at a relatively low power level.
   MONOPOLE TOWER. A communication tower consisting of a single pole,
constructed without guy wires and ground anchors.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND ANTENNAS. Any tower or antenna previously approved
prior to the effective date of these regulations and is exempt from the
requirements of these regulations so long as the tower or antennas are not
modified or changed.
   PROTECTED RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Any property within the city that meets all
of the following requirements: The property is zoned R-1, R-2, R-3, or R-4 and
the property may or may not also have a Planned Unit Development (PUD) Overlay
classification; the property is designated on the Comprehensive Plan as Low-
Density Residential, Medium-Density Residential, High-Density Residential or
Residential PUD; and the property is used or subdivided for use as residential.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Persons, corporations, or governments supplying gas,
electric, transportation, water, sewer, or land line telephone service to the
general public. For the purpose of this chapter, commercial wireless
telecommunication service facilities shall not be considered public utility
uses, and are defined separately.
   SELF-SUPPORT TOWER. A communication tower that is constructed without guy
wires and ground anchors.
   TEMPORARY WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITY. Any tower, pole, antenna, etc.
designed for use while a permanent wireless facility is under construction, for
an emergency or for a special event.
   TOWER. Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas, including self-supporting lattice
towers, guy towers, or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television
transmission towers, microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular
telephone towers, alternative tower structures, and the like.
   TOWER, MULTI-USER. A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than
one commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or governmental
entity.
   TOWER, SINGLE-USER. A tower to which is attached only the antennas of a
single user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the antennas of
multiple users as required in this code.
   WHIP ANTENNA. An antenna that transmits signals in 360 degrees. Whip
antennas are typically cylindrical in shape and are less than six inches in
diameter and measure up to 18 inches in height. Also called omnidirectional,
stick or pipe antennas.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99; Am. Ord. 0903, passed 10-27-09; Am. Ord. 1401,
passed 1-28-14)
§ 153.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURES AND APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   All towers in excess of 35 feet may be allowed following the issuance
of a conditional use permit if the conditions of this code are met. The process
for a conditional use permit is detailed in §
155.440 of the Zoning Ordinance. The addition of a new antenna on an existing
tower or building may be allowed by permit by the Zoning Administrator if the
conditions of this code are met.
   (B)   In addition to the information required above, development
applications for wireless communications facilities shall include the following
supplemental information:
      (1)   A report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which
describes the tower height and design including a cross section and elevation,
documents the height above grade for all potential mounting positions for co-
located antennas and the minimum separation distances between antennas;
describes the tower's capacity, including the number and type of antennas that
it can accommodate; documents what steps the applicant will take to avoid
interference with established public safety telecommunications; includes an
engineer's stamp and registration number; and, includes other information
necessary to evaluate the request.
      (2)   For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a
letter of intent committing the tower owner and his or her successors to allow
the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
      (3)   Before the issuance of a building permit, the following
supplemental information shall be submitted: proof that the proposed tower
complies with regulations administered by Federal Aviation Administration; and,
a report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer which demonstrates
the tower's compliance with the city's structural and electrical standards.
   (C)   In addition to the site plan requirements found elsewhere in the
Zoning Ordinance, site plans for wireless communications facilities shall
include the following supplemental information:
      (1)   Location and approximate size and height of all buildings and
structures within 500 feet adjacent to the proposed wireless communication
facility.
      (2)   Site plan of entire development, indicating all improvements
including landscaping and screening.
      (3)   Elevations showing all facades, indicating exterior materials and
color of the tower(s) on the proposed site.
      (4)   Plans shall be drawn at a scale of not less than one inch to 100
feet.
   (D)   Generally, approval of a wireless communications facility can be
achieved if the following items are met:
      (1)   The location of the proposed tower is compatible with the
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   There exists no city-owned sites or buildings, including schools,
water towers, libraries, and parks, that can reasonably serve the needs of the
owner of the proposed new facility/tower.
      (3)   There is no other existing or proposed facility/tower that can
reasonably serve the needs of the owner of the proposed new facility/tower.
      (4)   All efforts to locate on an existing tower have not been successful
or legally/physically possible.
      (5)   The submitted site plan complies with the performance criteria set
in these regulations.
      (6)   The proposed facility/tower will not unreasonably interfere with
the view from any public park, natural scenic vista, historic building or
district, or major view corridor.
      (7)   The lowest six feet of the facility/tower be visually screened by a
combination of trees, large shrubs, solid walls, fences, nearby buildings or
natural topography.
      (8)   The height and mass of the facility/tower does not exceed that
which is essential for its intended use and public safety.
      (9)   The owner of the wireless communication facility has agreed to
permit other persons/cellular providers to attach cellular antenna or other
communications apparatus which do not interfere with the primary purpose of the
facility.
      (10) The proposed facility/tower is not constructed in such a manner as
to result in needless height, mass, and guy-wire supports.
      (11) The color of the proposed facility/tower will be of a light tone or
color (except where required otherwise by the FAA) as to minimize the visual
impact and that the tower will have a security fence around the tower base or
the lot where the tower is located.
      (12) The facility/tower is in compliance with any other applicable local,
state, or federal regulations.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99)
§ 153.05 LOCATION AND DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Co-location requirements. All commercial wireless telecommunication
towers erected, constructed, or located within the city shall comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunication service
tower shall not be approved unless the City Council finds that the
telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on a city-owned or public building or property or on an existing
or approved tower or building within a one half mile search radius of the
proposed tower due to one or more of the following reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent
equipment at a reasonable cost.
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
         (c)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer.
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
      (2)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to
accommodate both the applicant's antennas and comparable or like antennas for
at least three additional users if the tower is 101-150 feet in height, for at
least two additional users if the tower is 60-100 feet in height, or for at
least one additional user if the tower is less than 60 feet in height. Towers
must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon the tower
and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
   (B)   Tower and design requirements. Proposed or modified towers and
antennas shall meet the following design requirements:
      (1)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities
such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (2)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of a
monopole design unless the City Council determines that an alternative design
would better blend in to the surrounding environment.
   (C)   Tower construction requirements. All towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city, and all wiring therefor, shall comply with the
requirements set forth in the City's Building Code.
   (D)   Tower setbacks. Towers shall conform to each of the following minimum
setback requirements in addition to the district requirements established in §
153.07 of this chapter:
      (1)   Towers, at a minimum, shall meet the setbacks of the underlying
zoning district.
      (2)   Towers shall be set back from the planned public rights of way. All
guy wires or guy wire anchors shall not be erected within public or private
utility and drainage easements.
      (3)   A tower's setback may be reduced or its location in relation to a
public street varied, at the sole discretion of the City Council, to allow the
integration of a tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a church
steeple, light standard, power line support device, or similar structure.
      (4)   A tower's setback may be reduced at the sole discretion of the City
Council, if a report from a qualified and licensed professional engineer
demonstrates that the design of the tower will not allow the tower to
physically damage adjoining properties.
      (5)   Towers erected on any protected residential parcel as defined in §
153.03 of this chapter are also subject to the setback provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   Tower height. All proposed towers shall meet the height restrictions
set forth in §
153.07 of this chapter.
   (F)   Tower lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means
and shall not display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically
required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state
authority for a particular tower. When incorporated into the approved design of
the tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots, or
similar areas may be attached to the tower.
   (G)   Signs and advertising. The use of any portion of a tower for signs
other than warning or equipment information signs is prohibited.
   (H)   Accessory utility buildings. All utility buildings and structures
accessory to a tower shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the
surrounding environment and shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the
underlying zoning district. Ground mounted equipment shall be screened from
view by suitable vegetation, except where a design of non-vegetative screening
better reflects and complements the architectural character of the surrounding
neighborhood.
   (I)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers. Abandoned or unused
towers or portions of towers shall be removed as follows:
      (1)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a
time extension is approved by the Zoning Administrator. A copy of the relevant
portions of a signed lease which requires the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the site shall be
submitted at the time of application. In the event that a tower is not removed
within 12 months of the cessation of operations at a site, the tower and
associated facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal
assessed against the property.
      (2)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall be
removed within six months of the time of antenna relocation. The replacement of
portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of a new
conditional use permit.
   (J)   Antennas mounted on roofs, walls, and existing towers. The placement
of wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls, and existing towers are
preferred to erecting new towers and may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator, provided the antennas meet the requirements of this code, after
submittal of a final site and building plan as specified by §
153.04(C) of this code, and a report prepared by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer indicating the existing structure or tower's suitability
to accept the antenna, and the proposed method of affixing the antenna to the
structure. Complete details of all fixtures and couplings, and the precise
point of attachment shall be indicated.
   (K)   Interference with public safety telecommunications. No new or existing
telecommunications service shall interfere with public safety
telecommunications. All applications for new service shall be accompanied by an
intermodulation study that provides a technical evaluation of existing and
proposed transmissions and indicates all potential interference problems.
Before the introduction of new service or changes in existing service,
telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least ten calendar days in
advance of such changes and allow the city to monitor interference levels
during the testing process.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99)
§ 153.06 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No tower shall be over 150 feet in height or within one mile of
another tower regardless of municipal/township boundaries.
   (B)   A proposal for a new wireless service tower shall not be approved
unless it can be shown by the applicant that the telecommunication equipment
planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated:
      (1)   On an existing tower or structure, or
      (2)   On a tower that has already been permitted (even though it might
not yet be constructed)
      (3)   On a tower whose application is currently pending before the city.
   (C)   No temporary mobile cell sites are permitted except in the case of
equipment failure, equipment testing, or in the case of an emergency situation
as authorized by the County Sheriff. Use of temporary mobile cell sites for
testing purposes shall be limited to 24 hours; use of temporary mobile cell
sites for equipment failure or in the case of emergency situations shall be
limited to a term of 30 days. These limits can be extended by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (D)   Permanent platforms or structures, exclusive of antennas, other than
those necessary for safety purposes or for tower maintenance are prohibited.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99; Am. Ord. 0204, passed 8-13-02) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.07 DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Commercial wireless facility standards. Antennas and towers are
regulated differently depending on the zoning district in which that property
is located. Antennas and towers supporting commercial antennas conforming to
all applicable provisions of this code shall be allowed by a conditional use
permit as described in the following districts:
      (1)   All districts. Antennas attached to water towers are not restricted
by height requirements, provided that the antennas blend into and do not extend
more than 20 feet above the height of the water tower structure.
      (2)   General Agriculture (A-1). The maximum height of any tower,
including all antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed two feet for
each foot the tower is setback from the property line, up to a maximum height
of 150 feet.
      (3)   Residential Districts (R-1, R-2, R-3, & R-4).  
         (a)   Towers shall only be allowed with a conditional use permit in
the following residentially zoned locations unless no sites exist that can
reasonably serve the needs of the owner of the proposed new facility/tower:
            1.   Church sites, when camouflaged as steeples or bell towers;
            2.   Park sites, when compatible with the nature of the park; and,
            3.   Government, school, utility, and institutional sites.
         (b)   In all protected residential property the maximum height of any
tower, including all antennas and other attachments, shall be 35 feet. In all
residential zoning districts other than protected residential property, the
maximum height of any tower, including all antennas and other attachments,
shall not exceed one foot for each foot the tower is setback from the property
line, up to a maximum height of 150 feet.
      (4)   Commercial (B-1 & B-2). The maximum height of any tower, including
all antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed 150 feet in height. A
tower must be setback from a residentially zoned property a minimum of one foot
for each one foot of height.
      (5)   General Industry (I-1). The maximum height of any tower, including
all antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed 150 feet in height. A
tower must be setback from a residentially zoned property a minimum of one foot
for each one foot of height.
   (B)   Antennas mounted on roofs and walls. Antennas may be attached to an
existing building’s roof or wall if it meets the provisions of this chapter and
the following conditions:
      (1)   The antenna meets the height restrictions of the relevant district.
      (2)   The antenna does not extend more than ten feet above the highest
point of the structure.
   (C)   Non-commercial wireless facility (amateur radio antenna) standards.
Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all applicable
provisions of these regulations shall be allowed only in the rear yard of
residentially zoned parcels. In accordance with the Federal Communications
Commission’s preemptive ruling PRB1, towers erected for the purpose of
supporting amateur radio antennas may exceed 35 feet in height provided that a
determination is made by the Zoning Administrator that the proposed tower
height is technically necessary to successfully engage in amateur radio
communications.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99; Am. Ord. 1401, passed 1-28-14)
§ 153.08 NONCONFORMING ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   All legal nonconforming antennas and towers may remain subject to the
following:
   (A)   The antennas and towers may not be moved to a new location.
   (B)   Any antenna or tower which is located in a place which constitutes a
hazard to either persons or property shall not be allowed to remain and shall
be removed upon order of the City Council. The cost of removing any such
antenna/tower shall be the responsibility of the owner of the property upon
which the hazardous antenna/tower is located.
   (C)   A legal, non-conforming antenna/tower which is modified, enlarged or
changed, except for routine and minor repairs shall be brought into compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor, punishable in accordance
with §
10.99. Each day that a violation is permitted is considered a separate offense.
In addition, the city may seek injunctive relief in the Wright County District
Court to require conformance with this chapter. All costs and reasonable
attorneys fees incurred by the city in enforcing the provisions of this chapter
shall be paid by the violator of this chapter.
(Ord. 127, passed 10-12-99)
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.011   Authority
   
154.012   Applicability
   
154.013   Administration
   
154.014   Interpretation
   
154.015   Definitions
Design Standards
   
154.021   General design standards
   
154.022   Blocks and lots
   
154.023   Streets and alleys
   
154.024   Trails
   
154.025   Easements
   
154.026   Erosion and sediment control
   
154.027   Drainage
   
154.028   Protected areas
   
154.029   Private open space
Parkland Dedication
   
154.031   Park and other public land dedication requirements
Improvements
   
154.041   Interpretation
   
154.042   Procedure
   
154.043   City installation
   
154.044   Improvements required
Procedures and Enforcement
   
154.051   Common procedures
   
154.052   Minor subdivision
   
154.053   Sketch plan
   
154.054   Preliminary plat
   
154.055   Final plat
   
154.056   Amendment
   
154.057   Subdivision variance
   
154.058   Violations and penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planned unit developments, zoning regulations, see §
155.465 et seq.
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.011 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. This chapter shall be known as the "Subdivision Ordinance of
the City of St. Michael," and will be referred to herein as "this chapter."
   (B)   Purpose. In order to safeguard the best interests of the city and to
assist the subdivider in harmonizing his or her interests with those of the
city at large, the following regulations are adopted so that the adherence to
same will bring results beneficial to both parties. It is the purpose of this
chapter to make certain regulations and requirements for the subdivision or
platting of land within the city pursuant to the authority contained in
Minnesota Statutes, which regulations the City Council deems necessary for the
health, safety, and general welfare of this community.
   (C)   Effective date and authority to adopt.
      (1)   The effective date of this chapter is December 19, 2024. This
chapter hereby supersedes and replaces in its entirety, the prior Chapter 154
Subdivisions, on the effective date hereof.
      (2)   The authority to adopt this chapter within the City of St. Michael
is derived from M.S., Chapter 462, including but not limited to § 462.358, as
well as other applicable state statutes and rules.
      (3)   Whenever other applicable city, state, or federal laws or rules
referenced in this chapter have been amended or superseded, this chapter shall
also be considered amended accordingly.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.012 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivisions of land
contained herein shall apply
within the corporate limits of the City of St. Michael.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the following land
separations:
      (1)   Where all resulting parcels, tracts, lots, or interests will be 20
acres or larger in size and 500 feet in width for residential uses and five
acres or larger in size for commercial and industrial uses;
      (2)   The creation of cemetery lots; or
      (3)   Resulting from court orders, or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
   (C)   Effect of provisions on other permits and agreements.
      (1)   Building permits. No building permits shall be considered for
issuance by the city for the construction of any building, structure, or
improvement to the land or to any lot in a subdivision as defined herein until
all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with.
      (2)   Private agreements. This chapter is not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant, or any other private agreement provided that where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements on an easement, covenant, or other private agreement, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.013 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered by the Zoning Administrator who is
appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may delegate specific responsibility to any
individual city employee, but shall remain responsible for all decisions made
by those employees.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.014 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Conflicting regulations or provisions.
      (1)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they
shall be held to the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience, and general welfare.
      (2)   In the event of a conflict or inconsistency between the provisions
contained in this chapter and state statutes or rules, state statutes and rules
shall govern, unless such state statutes or rules provide otherwise.
      (3)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or
interfere with any existing easement, covenant, or any other private agreement.
However, where the regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or requirements on such easements, covenants, or other private
agreements, the requirements of this chapter shall govern.
      (4)   Where the provisions of this chapter impose greater restrictions
than those of any other ordinance, code provision, or regulation, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
      (5)   Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or code
provision, or regulation impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the
provisions of the statute, other ordinance or code provision, or regulation
shall be controlling.
   (B)   Use of graphics, illustrations, figures, photos, and cross-references.
      (1)   Graphics, illustrations, figures, and photos are provided for
illustrative purposes only and shall not be construed as regulations. Where a
conflict may occur between the text and any graphic, illustration, figure, or
photo, the text shall control.
      (2)   In some instances, cross-references between chapters, divisions,
sections, and subsections are provided that include the chapter, division,
section, or subsection number along with the name of the reference. Where a
conflict may occur between the given cross-reference number and name, the name
shall control.
   (C)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter are severable. If any
provision of this chapter, or application of any provision of this chapter to
any circumstance, is held to be invalid, the application of such provision to
other circumstances, and the remainder of this chapter shall not be a affected
thereby.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.015 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of interpretation. For the purpose of this chapter, words used
in the present tense shall include the future; words in the singular shall
include the plural, and the plural the singular; the word “lot” shall include
the word “plat”; and the word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Except for those words and phrases defined below, the words
and phrases used in this chapter shall be interpreted to be given the meaning
in common usage, so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
      (1)   General definitions.
         ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords secondary access to
abutting property.
         APPLICANT. The owner, the owner's agent, or any other person having
legal control, ownership, and/or interest in the land proposed to be
subdivided.
         BLOCK. That property abutting on one side of a street and lying
between the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or railroad right-
of-way or unsubdivided acreage.
         BOULEVARD. The portion of a street right-of-way not occupied by
pavement.
         BOXES. All mailboxes, newspaper boxes, and advertising boxes wherein
either mail is distributed, newspapers and magazines are distributed, or
advertising is placed for the use of residents of the city.
         BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
When separated by division walls without openings, each portion of the building
shall be deemed a separate building.
         CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A document prepared by a registered engineer or
registered land surveyor which precisely describes the area, dimensions, and
location of a parcel or parcels of land.
         CITY. The City of St. Michael.
         CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney employed or retained by the city, unless
otherwise stated.
         CITY COUNCIL. The governing body of the City of St. Michael.
         CITY ENGINEER. The engineer employed or retained by the city, unless
otherwise stated.
         CITY PLANNER. The planner employed or retained by the city, unless
otherwise stated.
         COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A comprehensive plan prepared and approved by the
city including a compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, fiscal
guidelines, and maps indicating various functional classes of land use, places,
and structures, and for the general development of the city, including any unit
or part of such plan separately adopted and any amendment to such plan or parts
thereof.
         COUNTY. Wright County, Minnesota.
         CROSSWALK. A right-of-way owned by the city or another governmental
entity which furnishes access for pedestrians across a street to adjacent
streets or properties.
         DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdividers for
the preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as rights-of-
way, blocks, easements, and lots.
         DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT. A written contract between city and applicant,
drafted by the City Attorney in conjunction with the approval by city of a
subdivision.
         DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The number of individual dwelling units that can
be located on a parcel of land as established through the City Zoning Ordinance
and Comprehensive Plan.
         EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land
and for the purpose of constructing and maintaining drives, utilities, and the
like, including, but not limited to, wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers,
water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewers or storm
drainageways, gas lines, sidewalks and trails.
         FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision meeting all of the
requirements of the city and in such form as required by Wright County for the
purpose of recording.
         FRONTAGE ROAD. (See STREET; MARGINAL ACCESS STREET).
         IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, trail,
pedestrian way, landscaping, lighting, off-street parking area, grading,
utility, lot improvement, or other similar facility.
            1.   PRIVATE IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement for which the city does
not assume ownership or the responsibility for maintenance and operation, but
which instead is owned, maintained and operated by a private property owner or
group of private property owners.
            2.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement for which the city may
ultimately assume the ownership and responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local government
responsibility is established.
         INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A septic tank, seepage tile sewage
disposal system, or any other sewage treatment device.
         INSPECTOR. An authorized representative of the City Council assigned
to make any or all necessary inspections of the work performed and materials
furnished by a developer.
         JOINT POWERS WATER BOARD. The governing water utility of the City of
St. Michael.
         LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
            1.   LOT, BASE. A lot meeting all the specifications within its
zoning district prior to being divided into a two- to four-unit or townhouse
subdivision.
            2.   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two
streets, the interior angle of such intersection not exceeding 135°.
            3.   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. An interior lot having frontage on two
streets.
            4.   LOT, UNIT. A lot created from the subdivision of a two- to
four-unit dwelling or a townhome structure having different minimum lot size
requirements than the conventional base lot within the zoning district.
         LOT DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front and rear
lines measured from a 90° angle from the street right-of-way within the lot
boundaries.
         LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object, or improvement of the land on which they are situated, constituting a
physical betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment. Certain
lot improvements shall be properly bonded as provided in these regulations.
         LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is part of a subdivision the plat of
which has been recorded in the County Recorder's office, or a lot described by
metes and bounds the deed to which has been recorded in the County Recorder's
office, at the time this chapter becomes effective.
         LOT WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the side property
lines measured at right angles to the lot depth measured at the required
minimum building setback line.
         METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description of real property which is
not described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described
by starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of the section, lot, or area by described lines or portions thereof.
         NATURAL WATERWAY. A natural passageway on the surface of the earth so
situated and having such a topographical natural nature that surface water
flows through.
         OUTLOT. A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting which
is intended as open
space or other use and for which no building permit shall be issued.
         OWNER. An individual, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity holding an equitable or legal
ownership interest in the land sought to be subdivided.
         PARCEL. An individual lot or tract of land.
         PARKS. Public land and open spaces in the city dedicated or reserved
for recreation purposes. (See also PLAYGROUNDS).
         PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way or private easement across a
block or within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used
for the installation of utility lines.
         PERSON. Any individual or legal entity.
         PLANNING COMMISSION. The St. Michael Planning Commission.
         PLAYGROUNDS. Public land and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreation purposes. (See also PARKS).
         PRELIMINARY PLAT. A detailed drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated, and submitted to the Planning
Commission and governing body for their consideration in compliance with the
comprehensive plan, along with the required supporting data.
         PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving
the physical and economic integrity of any given area.
         PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local
government responsibility is established.
         RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for
public use, and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, a
trail, a railroad, utility lines, an oil or gas pipeline, a water line, a
sanitary sewer, a storm sewer, or other similar uses.
         ROADWAY. The portion of a street right-of-way improved for vehicular
travel.
         SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and a
street, lot line, ordinary high-water mark, or bluff line. Distances are to be
measured from the most outwardly extended portion of the structure at ground
level.
         SKETCH PLAN. A drawing showing the proposed subdivision of property.
This plan shall be drawn to scale and dimensioned, however, exact accuracy is
not a requirement.
         STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians
and vehicles to abutting properties, whether designed as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place, or
however otherwise designated.
            1.   STREET, ARTERIAL or THOROUGHFARE. A street carrying larger
volumes of traffic and serving as a link between various sub-areas of the
community. THOROUGHFARES or ARTERIAL STREETS are intended to provide for
collection and distribution of traffic between highways and collector streets;
hence regulation of direct access to property is critical.
            2.   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which carries traffic from local
streets to the major system of arterial streets and highways. COLLECTOR STREETS
primarily provide principal access to residential neighborhoods, including, to
a lesser degree, direct land access.
            3.   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and
having an appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic
movement.
            4.   STREET, LOCAL. A street which is used primarily for access to
abutting properties and for local traffic movement.
            5.   STREET, MARGINAL ACCESS (FRONTAGE ROAD). A local street which
is parallel and adjacent to thoroughfares and highways and which provides
access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
         SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-
partnership, corporation, trust, or other legal entity having sufficient
proprietary interest in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and
maintain proceedings to subdivide the same under this chapter.
         SUBDIVISION. The separation of an area, parcel, or tract of land under
single ownership into two or more parcels, tracts, lots, or long-term
leaseholds.
            1.   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. Any subdivision not classified as a minor
subdivision, including, but not limited to, subdivisions of four or more lots,
or any size subdivision requiring any new street or extension of city utilities
or the creation of any public improvements.
            2.   SUBDIVISION, MINOR. Any subdivision containing no more than
three lots fronting on an existing street which does not require any new
street, the extension of city utilities, or the creation of any public
improvements, and does not adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or
adjoining property, and is not in conflict with any provisions of the
comprehensive plan, official map, zoning ordinance, or this chapter. This
includes lot line adjustments by the relocation of a common boundary, the
combination of recorded lots, and one-in-forty lot splits.
         SURVEYOR. A land surveyor registered under state law.
         VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of this
chapter as applicable to a specific piece of property. Modification of the
allowable use within a district shall not be considered a variance.
         ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person duly appointed by the City Council as
the individual charged with the responsibility of administering and enforcing
this chapter.
         ZONING ORDINANCE. The zoning ordinance or resolution controlling the
use of land as adopted by the city.
   (2)   Flood-related definitions.
         100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large regional
floods known to have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably
characteristic of what can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the
magnitude of the 100-year recurrence interval as determined by the use of the
100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in the Flood
Insurance Study, or in any other officially adopted city flood study.
         ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A use or structure in the same
lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use or structure.
         EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that the hydraulic capacity of flood plain lands on each
side of a stream are reduced by an equal amount when calculating the increases
in flood stages due to flood plain encroachments.
         FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
         FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in
inundation of the areas adjacent to the channel.
         FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for
which it is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
         FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
         FLOOD FRINGE. Synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the
Flood Insurance Study for the city.
         FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. The areas included in the Floodway and Flood
Fringe as indicated on the official zoning map and the Flood Insurance Study
and Flood Insurance Rate Map which have been officially adopted by the city.
         FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. The most recent Flood Insurance Rate Map
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency for the city, and as
applicable and allowed by law, the Flood Insurance Rate Map prepared by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency for all areas within the City of St.
Michael.
         FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The most recent Flood Insurance Study prepared
for the city by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and, as applicable and
allowed by law, the Flood Insurance Study prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency for all areas within the City of St. Michael.
         FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary
facilities, structures, and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area in
accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code.
         FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining flood plains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
regional flood determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and other
supporting technical data in the Flood Insurance Study, or in any other
officially adopted city flood study.
         OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood hazard area
which may impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either
in itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water, or that is
placed where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of
life or property.
         REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment
of a stream or river influenced by the natural or manmade obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossings would be typical of a REACH.
         REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point not less than one foot
above the water surface profile associated with the 100-year flood as
determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and supporting technical
data in the Flood Insurance Study plus any increase in flood heights
attributable to encroachments on the flood plain. It is the elevation to which
uses regulated by this chapter are required to be elevated or floodproofed.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.021 GENERAL DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conformity with other standards. A proposed subdivision shall conform
to the comprehensive plan, to related policies adopted by the city, and to all
other chapters of the official code and zoning ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Interpretation of requirements. The design features set forth in this
section are minimum requirements. The city may impose additional or more
stringent requirements concerning lot size, streets, and overall design as
deemed appropriate considering the property being subdivided.
   (C)   Land requirements.
      (1)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be
subdivided. No plan shall be approved if the site is not suitable for the
purposes proposed by reason of potential flooding, topography, or adverse soil,
rock formation, or wetlands.
      (2)   Land subject to hazards to life, health, or property shall not be
subdivided until all such hazards have been eliminated or unless adequate
safeguards against such hazards are provided by the subdivision plan.
      (3)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with surrounding
jurisdictions and/or neighborhoods so that the city as a whole may develop
efficiently and harmoniously.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.022 BLOCKS AND LOTS.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets determining block
lengths shall be provided at such intervals so as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed 1,000 feet, nor be less
than 500 feet in length, except where topography or other conditions justify a
departure from this standard. In blocks longer than 1,000 feet, pedestrian ways
and/or easements through the block may be required near the center of the
block.
   Figure 2.1. Pedestrian Ways.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2162.png]
 
      (2)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   Area/width. The minimum lot area and width shall not be less than
that established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption
of the subdivision.
      (2)   Corner lots. Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets as required in
the zoning ordinance.
      (3)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (4)   Building sites. Each lot shall provide an adequate building site at
least 18 inches above the top of the adjacent curb unless approved by the City
Engineer upon the basis of plans submitted showing alternative, acceptable
surface drainage measures.
      (5)   Frontage. Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a city-
approved street other than an alley, as required in the city zoning ordinance.
      (6)   Access. Each lot shall directly access a public street or as
otherwise allowed for in a PUD.
      (7)   Setback lines. Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
and shall not be less than
the setback required by the city zoning ordinance, as may be amended.
      (8)   Watercourses. Watercourses shall be contained within abutting lots.
Watercourses shall be protected by easement to the anticipated high water level
(as determined by the city). Lots with easements protecting watercourses shall
have sufficient dimensions and area above the high water level.
      (9)   Drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage away from
building locations, subject to City Engineering Guidelines and the approval of
the City Engineer. A grading plan shall be submitted showing all lot grading
and drainage provisions.
      (10)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic
spots, or similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development.
      (11)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over
after subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots or platted
as an outlot, rather than be allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
      (12)   Political boundaries. No subdivision shall extend over a political
boundary or school district line without document notification to affected
units of government.
      (13)   Frontage on two streets. Double frontage, or lots with frontage on
two parallel streets, shall not be permitted except where lots back on major
arterial or collector streets, or where topographic or other conditions render
subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such double frontage lots shall meet the
dimensional requirements established in the zoning ordinance.
      (14)   Access to major collector streets.
         (a)   In the case where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to a major
collector street as defined in the city's comprehensive plan, there shall be no
direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets and roads.
         (b)   In the subdividing of small tracts of land fronting on limited
access highways or major collector streets where there is no other alternative,
a temporary access may be granted, subject to terms and conditions defined by
the City Council and applicable county or state agencies. As neighboring land
becomes subdivided and more preferable access arrangements become possible,
temporary access permits shall become void. In cases where direct lot access to
collector or arterial streets is allowed, special traffic safety measures
including, but not limited to, provisions for on-site vehicle turnaround shall
be required.
         (c)   In cases where a proposed subdivision is adjacent to a county or
state highway, the subdivision shall be subject to county and/or state
approval.
      (15)   Outlots. Lot remnants as described in division (11) above and
future subdivision development phases shall be platted as outlots. In cases
where outlots are created or exist, their area shall not be utilized in
calculating minimums for buildable lot area requirements. Outlots are also
prohibited from qualifying for building permits.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.023 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Streets shall be designed to comply with the standards set forth in
the City's Engineering Guidelines.
   (B)   All proposed streets shall be in conformity to city, county, and state
plans and standards and be offered for dedication as public streets unless
otherwise determined by the City Council.
      (1)   Local streets should be so planned as to discourage their use by
non-local traffic.
      (2)   Minimum design standards for major collector streets shall comply
with Minnesota Department of Transportation State Aid Standards.
   (C)   Street plans for future subdivisions. Where the subdivision to be
submitted includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by
the applicant, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the applicant. When
determined necessary by the city, the plan shall extend streets and utilities
to the property line of the adjacent tract and/or tracts.
   (D)   Contiguous streets.
      (1)   Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect with streets already
dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for future
connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts.
      (2)   The arrangement of arterials and collector streets shall be
considered in their relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographic conditions, to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and
safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to
be served and in compliance with the comprehensive plan.
   (E)   Dead-end streets.
      (1)   Dead-end streets are prohibited.
      (2)   Cul-de-sacs shall be permitted where topography or other physical
conditions justify their use.
      (3)   Temporary cul-de-sacs. In those instances where a street is
terminated pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision, a
temporary turnaround facility shall be provided at the closed end, in
conformance with cul-de-sac requirements.
   (F)   Private streets. Private streets, except in the case of planned unit
developments, shall be prohibited and no public improvements shall be approved
for any private street. All streets shall be dedicated for public use. If any
person applies to subdivide or replat any land or parcels adjoining an existing
private street, they shall be required to dedicate the private street for
public use and schedule for improvement to public street standards at the time
of final plat.
   (G)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited except under conditions accepted by the City Council.
   (H)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where it will be
practical to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is subdivided, in which case the dedication of a half street may be
permitted. The probable length of time elapsing before dedication of the
remainder shall be considered in this decision. No permanent street improvement
shall be permitted within a half street right-of-way. All lots having frontage
or access solely from a half street are prohibited from being eligible for
building permits.
   (I)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Intersections having more than four corners shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Angles formed by the intersection of two streets shall comply with
the provisions of the City Engineering Guidelines.
      (3)   Street intersection jogs with center line offsets of less than 125
feet shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Adequate land for future intersections and interchange construction
needs shall be dedicated.
   (J)   Curbs and gutters. Concrete curbs and gutters shall be required on all
streets, except in the RR District or unless otherwise directed by the City
Council at the time the subdivision is approved.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.024 TRAILS.
   (A)   Trails shall be established in accordance with the City's
Comprehensive Park, Trail and Open Space Plan, along natural features such as
lakes, wetlands, and ditches, and in other areas where trails will serve an
important transportation or recreational purpose as recommended and approved by
the City Council.
   (B)   Trail corridors shall meet the following minimum requirements unless
otherwise permitted by the City Council:
      (1)   Dedicated to the city as a parcel or as an easement for public
trail purposes;
      (2)   Minimum corridor width of 30 feet;
      (3)   Minimum surface width of nine feet;
      (4)   Designed to meet ADA standards wherever possible;
      (5)   No above-ground utilities (i.e. lift stations, utility boxes) may
be within the trail corridor;
      (6)   A landscape plan, including shrubs and trees, shall be required on
trail corridors located in the side yard of residential lots. These landscape
plantings shall be in addition to those required by §
155.076 of the city code; and
      (7)   Due regard shall be shown for trees, wetlands and other
environmental features when locating and constructing trails.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.025 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Width and location. An easement for drainage and utilities at least
ten feet wide shall be provided around the perimeter of a subdivision, along
front and rear lot lines, and centered along shared side lot lines. Easements
of greater width or area may be required if necessary for the extension of main
water, sewer lines, similar utilities, or drainage purposes, or to incorporate
wetlands.
   (B)   Continuous utility easement locations. Drainage and utility easements
shall connect with easements established in adjoining properties. These
easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval
of the City Council after a public hearing.
   (C)   Guy wires. Additional easements for pole guys should be provided,
where appropriate, at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be
arranged to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys fall alongside lot
lines.
   (D)   Storm water management ponds. New storm water management ponds that
are constructed as part of subdivisions shall be covered by drainage and
utility easements that are dedicated to the city. At least one side of a pond
should be located adjacent to public right-of-way and adequate easement
dedicated to provide access for future maintenance.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.026 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   All subdivision designs shall incorporate adequate provisions for erosion
and sediment control and be subject to the review and approval of the City
Engineer (see
Chapter 152: Surface Water Management).
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.027 DRAINAGE.
   All subdivision designs shall incorporate adequate provisions for storm
water runoff and be subject to the review and approval of the City Engineer
(see
Chapter 152: Surface Water Management).
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.028 PROTECTED AREAS.
   (A)   Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally
sensitive by the city due to the existence of wetlands, drainageways,
watercourses, floodable areas, or steep slopes, the design of the subdivision
shall clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to insure against
adverse environmental impact.
   (B)   Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive
areas, the city shall determine whether protection will be accomplished through
lot enlargement and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in the form
of easements or outlots.
   (C)   In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions
which allow for construction and grading involving a minimum of alteration to
sensitive areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the
proposed subdivision, the applicant shall be required to demonstrate that the
proposed design will not require construction on slopes over 18%, or result in
significant alteration to the natural drainage system such that adverse impacts
cannot be contained within the plat boundary.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.029 PRIVATE OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Where private open space for park, playground, trail, open space, or
other recreation purposes is provided in a proposed subdivision and such space
is to be privately owned and maintained by the future residents of the
subdivision, the following standards shall be met:
      (1)   All yards, court areas, setbacks, and other open space required to
be maintained by the zoning code shall not be included in the computation of
such private open space;
      (2)   The private ownership and maintenance of the open space shall be
adequately provided for by written agreement;
      (3)   The private open space shall be restricted for park, playground,
trail, open space, or recreational purposes by recorded covenants which run
with the land in favor of the future owners of the property within the tract
and which cannot be eliminated without the consent of the City Council; and
      (4)   The proposed private open space shall be reasonably adaptable for
use for such purposes, taking into consideration such factors as size, shape,
topography, geology, access and location of the private open space.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
PARKLAND DEDICATION
§ 154.031 PARK AND OTHER PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Findings of the City Council.
      (1)   The City Council finds that as the city continues to increase in
population, planning is needed to ensure that the economical development of
park lands are identified, and that such lands are preserved for public use
during the land subdivision and development process and not developed for other
purposes. The provisions by the city of adequate park land facilities to serve
the recreational needs of new residents and workers within the city is an
important factor in the maintenance of a high quality of life in the city and
contributes to the health and safety of citizens. In addition, adequate open
space land should be reserved to retain the character of the city, protect
wildlife habitats, cleanse the air and storm water runoff, and provide passive
recreational opportunities.
      (2)   It is therefore in the best interest of all of the citizens of the
city to ensure that when new development is hereinafter created or made
possible by subdivision of lands, that adequate measures are provided in the
subdivision process to permit the city to identify land suitable for
development as new park land, and to obtain and develop such lands for the use
of the public at a reasonable cost. It also is in the best interest of all the
citizens of the city to ensure that adequate open space is dedicated and
reserved.
   (B)   Purpose. The provisions of this section are intended by the city to be
an exercise of the authority granted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2(b) to
require that a reasonable portion of any proposed subdivision of lands within
the city be dedicated to the public as park lands; or that a reasonable cash
payment be received from the developer in lieu thereof in order to facilitate
development of similar facilities.
   (C)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall apply to a person who
applies for a subdivision of land (where, as determined by the city, the
proposed subdivision causes an increased demand on city parks), regardless of
the intended use of land, whether residential, commercial, industrial, or
other.
   (D)   Parks and open spaces.
      (1)   Lands for public use. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.358(2)(b), as amended,
and this section, all owners or developers, as a prerequisite to approval of a
plat, subdivision, or development of any land, shall convey to the city, or
dedicate to the public use, a reasonable portion of any such land for public
use as streets, roads, sewers, electric, gas and water facilities, storm water
drainage and holding areas or ponds, similar utilities and improvements or
parks, playgrounds, trails, or open space, such portions to be approved and
acceptable to the city.
      (2)   All developers, landowners, or persons requesting subdivision of
land shall convey to the city, or dedicate to the public use, a percentage of
such land for the public use as parks, playgrounds, trails, or open space. The
city, at its discretion, may require cash in lieu of land to be dedicated or a
combination of land and cash dedication, as established in the city's fee
schedule and adopted by the City Council from time to time.
         (a)   City's deposit of funds. Sums of money so received by the city
shall be placed in a special account to be known as the "Park Fund" and
allocated by the City Council solely for the development of park land. Eligible
expenditures shall include the acquisition of land, purchase of equipment,
construction of facilities, development of existing parks and recreational
areas, or debt retirement in connection with such improvements previously
expended.
         (b)   Park land calculation. In determining the amount of park land
that must be dedicated for a specific subdivision, the following shall not be
included within the calculation unless an exception is granted by the City
Council based upon the appropriateness given the intended use of the dedicated
land:
            1.   Land within an existing watercourse;
            2.   Land within a 100-year floodway or floodplain;
            3.   Land within a drainage easement or stormwater ponding area; or
            4.   Land shown as being within a wetland, as shown on the National
Wetlands Inventory or wetland delineation study, when available.
         (c)   Dedication requirements. Dedication requirements for minor
subdivisions and 1 in 40 lot splits shall be the park and trail cash dedication
set forth in the city's fee schedule. Homes existing prior to July 25, 2006,
shall not be charged a park dedication fee when a subdivision takes place. The
subdivided property shall be subject to additional dedication requirements upon
further subdivision thereof.
      (3)   In the event that the developer objects to the required fee, the
city shall, at the developer's request and expense, conduct a specific
dedication study of the park system and the increased demand that the city
determines will likely be placed on the park system if the proposed plat is
approved.
   (E)   Requirements for park land. The following requirements shall apply to
all dedications or conveyances for park, playground, trail or public open space
purposes:
      (1)   Any land to be dedicated as a requirement of this section shall be
reasonably adaptable for its proposed use and shall be at a location convenient
to the people to be served. Factors used in evaluating the adequacy of proposed
park and recreation areas shall include size, shape, topography, geology, tree
cover, access, and location.
      (2)   Land conveyed or dedicated pursuant to provisions of this section
shall, at the option of the City Council, be located outside of drainageways,
floodplains, and ponding areas after the site has been developed.
      (3)   Land areas so conveyed or dedicated for park, playground, trail,
and open space purposes may not be used by an owner or developer as an
allowance for purposes of calculating the density requirements of the
development as set out in the zoning code (Chapter 155) and shall be in
addition to and not in lieu of open space requirements for planned unit
developments pursuant to the zoning code, as amended.
   (F)   Open space privately owned. Open space privately owned and maintained
shall not be given credit for park land dedication.
   (G)   Marketability; evidence of good title. Prior to such park land
dedication, the developer shall deliver to the City Attorney a title commitment
issued by a recognized issuer of title policies in the state establishing that
the developer has marketable title to the land intended to be dedicated or
conveyed for park land purposes.
   (H)   Taxes and special assessments. The city shall not be responsible for
the payment of any special assessments levied against or otherwise attributable
to the land proposed to be dedicated or conveyed to the city for park land
purposes. Any special assessment shall be paid by the developer prior to the
dedication or conveyance of the land to the city.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 154.041 INTERPRETATION.
   All of the required improvements specified in this section shall be
constructed in accordance with the state building code and all other applicable
city, county, and state regulations, policies, and guidelines.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.042 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever improvements are required to be installed, the owner and
applicant shall first execute a development agreement approved by the city
embodying the terms and conditions of the approval given by the City Council
and including, but not limited to, requirements set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Deposit by owner or applicant. In order to cover the legal,
engineering and administrative costs and expenses incurred by the city in
connection with the review and approval of the subdivision and the inspection
of the actual installation and construction of the improvements, the owner or
applicant shall, before recording the final plat of the subdivision, deposit
with the City of St. Michael an amount equal to $3,000 plus up to 5% of the
engineer's estimate of the cost of construction of the improvements. The
purpose and use of the escrow deposit is subject to city policy as adopted by
the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   No owner or applicant shall be permitted to start work on any
improvements without providing the city a financial security consistent with
city policy as adopted by the City Council from time to time, guaranteeing that
the improvements will be installed in accordance with all laws, rules,
regulations and policies and as approved by the city. The amount of the
financial security shall be equal to 125% of the City Engineer's estimate of
the total cost of the improvements to be installed, all as set forth in the
development agreement.
   (D)   All required improvements to be installed under the provisions of this
chapter shall be inspected and approved by the City Engineer during the course
of construction.
   (E)   Prior to any public improvement being accepted by the city, or private
improvement being approved by the city, as hereinafter provided, the applicant
shall post a maintenance bond and/or other security in a form acceptable to the
city naming the city as obligee in an amount deemed appropriate by the City
Council to insure maintenance of the improvements for a period of at least 24
months from the date of acceptance or approval by the city.
   (F)   The owner or applicant shall continue to be responsible for defects,
deficiencies and damage to improvements during development of the subdivision.
No inspection approval or release of funds from the construction deposit as to
any component or category shall be deemed to be city final approval of
improvement or otherwise release the applicant of its obligation relating to
the completion of the improvements until the final subdivision release on all
improvements and maintenance is issued by the City Council declaring that all
improvements have in fact been constructed as required. Inspection and
acceptance or approval of any or all required improvements shall not constitute
acceptance of the improvement by the city as an improvement for which the city
shall bear any responsibility.
   (G)   The applicant shall provide to the city as-built drawings of all
improvement.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.043 CITY INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to have improvements installed may request the
city to install them, if the request is accompanied by a written petition
signed by 100% of the landowners pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429 and a waiver of
assessment appeal. Acceptance of the request shall be discretionary on the part
of the City Council, based on benefit to property owners, and subject to the
following conditions and as authorized by state law. If approved by the
Council, the city may cause the improvements to be made and special assessments
for all costs of the improvements to be levied on the benefitted land, except
any land which is or shall be dedicated to the public.
   (B)   Subsequent to approval by the Council and before execution by the city
of the final plat or other appropriate forms of city approval, the owner or
applicant shall submit to the city a letter of credit or cash deposit
("security") which guarantees payment of special assessments levied as a result
of improvements installed by the city pursuant to this chapter. The form, type,
issuer and amount of security shall be approved by the city and consistent with
city policy as adopted by the City Council from time to time.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.044 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Monuments and survey requirements.
      (1)   Official monuments, as designated and adopted by the County
Surveyor's Office and approved by the County District Court for use as judicial
monuments, shall be set at each corner or angle on the outside boundary of the
final plat or in accordance with a plan as approved by the City Engineer. The
boundary line of the property to be included with the plat to be fully
dimensioned; all angles of the boundary excepting the closing angle to be
indicated; all monuments and surveyor's irons to be indicated, each angle point
of the boundary perimeter to be so monumented.
      (2)   Proper survey monumentation shall be placed at each lot corner and
points of curvature and tangency along street rights-of-way. All United States,
state, county, or other official bench marks, monuments, or triangular stations
in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise position and shall
be recorded on the plat. All lot and block dimensions shall be shown on the
plat and all necessary angles pertaining to the lots and blocks, as an aid to
future surveys, shall be shown on the plat. No ditto marks will be permitted in
indicating dimensions.
      (3)   To ensure that all irons and monuments are correctly in place
following the final grading of a plat, a second monumentation shall be in the
form of a surveyor's certificate and this requirement shall additionally be a
condition of certificate of occupancy as provided for in the City Zoning
Ordinance, as may be amended.
      (4)   All lot corners and survey control monuments shall be set and in
place at the time the plat is recorded. An exception to this requirement may be
granted for up to one year by the City Council, provided approval is made part
of the development contract and a financial guarantee in a form determined by
the City Attorney is provided.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded in accordance
with the provisions for
construction as outlined in §§
154.021 through
154.029.
      (2)   All streets shall be improved in accordance with the standards and
specifications as found in the City Engineering Guidelines.
      (3)   Until completion of the first lift, occupancy permits shall be
withheld. The second lift of bituminous shall be completed not less than one
year following completion of the first lift unless otherwise approved in
writing by the City Engineer.
      (4)   The Planning Commission and/or City Council may require the
provision of sidewalks on arterials and collectors and other streets in
proximity to public service areas such as parks, schools, or shopping
facilities or in other appropriate locations of a similar nature. The design of
the sidewalks shall be considered in their relation to existing and planned
sidewalks, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to
run-off storm water, and to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
      (5)   Street lighting fixtures as may be required by the City Council
shall be installed.
   (C)   Water and sewer. Sanitary sewers and water facilities shall be
designed, installed, and approved in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the Joint Powers Board and the City of St. Michael
Engineering Guidelines.
   (D)   Drainage. All grading and drainage improvements for each subdivision
shall be designed and constructed consistent with
Chapter 152 of the City Code.
   (E)   Utilities. Telephone, electric, cable TV, and/or gas service lines are
to be placed underground in accordance with the provisions of all applicable
city ordinances and code provisions. All necessary utility easements shall be
recorded prior to utility installation.
   (F)   Trails. Trails shall be established in accordance with the
requirements set forth in §
154.024.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.051 COMMON PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Conditions for recording. No plat or subdivision shall be entitled to
be recorded in the County Recorder's office or have any validity until the plat
thereof has been prepared, approved, and acknowledged in the manner prescribed
by this chapter.
   (B)   Fees.
      (1)   A subdivision application shall be accompanied by a fee set by the
City Council from time to time.
      (2)   Any and all expenses incurred by the city for engineering,
planning, legal, or other services related to the review and processing of the
subdivision application that exceeds the established application fee shall be
collected from the applicant.
   (C)   Denial of plats.
      (1)   Denial of plat. The city may deny the subdivision if it makes any
one or more of the following findings:
         (a)   That the proposed subdivision is in conflict with adopted
applicable general and specific comprehensive plans of the city;
         (b)   That the physical characteristics of this site, including but
not limited to topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage, and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design, or use contemplated;
         (c)   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed
density of development;
         (d)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements
are likely to cause environmental damage;
         (e)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements
are likely to cause public health problems;
         (f)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements
will conflict with easements of record or with easements established by
judgement of a court;
         (g)   That the proposed subdivision, its site, or its design adversely
affects the flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or within
other areas of the city;
         (h)   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies and
standards of the state-defined Shoreland, Floodplain, and Wetland Districts;
         (i)   The City Council deems the subdivision to be premature; and
         (j)   The design of the subdivision does not conform to minimum city
standards.
      (2)   Premature subdivisions. Any preliminary or final plat of a proposed
subdivision deemed
premature for development shall be denied by the City Council.
         (a)   A subdivision may be deemed premature should any of the
conditions set forth in the
provisions which follow exist:
            1.   Lack of adequate drainage. Inadequate drainage shall be deemed
to exist if:
               a.   Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such
that it constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed
structures and/or adjacent properties;
               b.   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water
sources or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land; or
               c.   The proposed site grading and development will cause
harmful and irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downstream land.
               d.   Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include: average rainfall for the area; the relation of the land to
floodplains; the nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately
support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land
and its effect on effluents; and the presence of streams as related to effluent
disposal.
            2.   Lack of adequate water supply.
               a.   A proposed subdivision shall be deemed to lack an adequate
water supply if joint power water is not available to the plat.
               b.   With the extension of municipal water, all private wells
must be capped in accordance with state statutes.
            3.   Lack of adequate roads or highways to serve subdivision. A
proposed subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate roads or highways to
serve the subdivision when:
               a.   Roads which serve the proposed subdivision are of such a
width, grade, stability, vertical and horizontal alignment, site distance, and
surface condition that an increase in traffic volume generated by the proposed
subdivision would create a hazard to public safety and general welfare or
seriously aggravate an already hazardous condition; and when, with due regard
to the advice of the City Engineer, the county, and/or the Minnesota Department
of Transportation, the roads are inadequate for the intended use;
               b.   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision
would create unreasonable street congestion or unsafe conditions on streets
existing at the time of the application or proposed for completion within the
next two years; or
               c.   The roads fail to meet minimum city standards.
            4.   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed
subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if
municipal sanitary sewer is not available to the plat or if in subdivisions for
which sewer lines are proposed there is inadequate sewer capacity in the
present system to support the subdivision if developed to its maximum
permissible density indicated in the city comprehensive plan.
            5.   Inconsistency with comprehensive plan. The proposed
subdivision is inconsistent with the purposes, objectives, and recommendations
of the duly adopted city comprehensive plan, as may be amended.
            6.   Providing public improvements. Public improvements, such as
recreational facilities, or other public facilities reasonably necessitated by
the subdivision which must be provided at public expense cannot be reasonably
provided for within the next two fiscal years.
            7.   Minnesota Environmental Quality Board (MEQB) policies. The
proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies of the MEQB, as may be
amended, and could adversely impact critical environmental areas, or
potentially disrupt or destroy historic areas which are designated or
officially recognized by the City Council, in violation of federal and state
historical preservation laws.
         (b)   Burden of establishing. The burden shall be upon the applicant
to show that the proposed subdivision is not premature.
   (D)   Appeals of decisions.
      (1)   Appeals of Zoning Administrator interpretation. The Planning
Commission shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals and hear and
decide any appeals of the Zoning Administrator's interpretation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Appeal of City Council decision. All decisions made by the City
Council regarding subdivision shall be final, except that any aggrieved person
shall have the right to appeal within 30 days after delivery of the decision to
the appellant, to the District Court in Wright County. Any person seeking
judicial review under this chapter must serve the city and all necessary
parties, including any landowners, within the 30-day period defined above.
   (E)   Registered land surveys.
      (1)   Registered land surveys shall not be used to avoid the requirements
of this title.
      (2)   All registered land surveys shall be prepared in conformance with
M.S. § 508.47, Subd. 4.
      (3)   A registered land survey shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and approved by the Council in the same manner as a preliminary
plat. Unless the registered land survey has been approved by the city, building
permits will be withheld for buildings on tracts which have been so subdivided
by registered land surveys, and the city may refuse to take over tracts as
streets or roads or to improve, repair, or maintain any such tracts unless so
approved.
   (F)   Conveyance by metes and bounds.
      (1)   Except in unique situations as may be allowed by the City Council,
or as provided for in M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 4b, no division of one or more
parcels in which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be
made or recorded unless the subdivision is located in the A-1 or AP Zoning
Districts and creates three or fewer new parcels.
      (2)   Building permits will be withheld for buildings or tracts which
have been subdivided and conveyed by this method and the city may refuse to
take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair, or maintain any
such tracts.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.052 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Applicability of provisions. This subchapter shall apply to the
following applications:
      (1)   Adjustment of a lot line by the relocation of a common boundary or
the combination of lots.
         (a)   If the lot line adjustment would cause one of the parcels to
have two different zoning classifications, the applicant must rezone the
property to achieve a consistent zoning classification for the newly created
parcel.
         (b)   Any easements that become unnecessary as a result of the
combination of lots must be vacated. In addition, new easements must be
established as determined by the City Engineer.
      (2)   A one-in-forty lot split.
         (a)   Newly created lots shall conform to the design and performance
standards of the City Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances and shall be recorded
with the county.
         (b)   A deed restriction clarifying future development rights is
required on the newly created parcels.
      (3)   A request to divide a base lot upon which a two- to four-unit
dwelling or townhouse, which is a part of a recorded plat, where the division
is to permit individual private ownership of a single dwelling unit within such
a structure and the newly created property lines will not cause any of the unit
lots or the structure to be in violation of this chapter or the City Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Processing.
      (1)   The following process shall be followed for minor subdivisions:
         (a)   Minor subdivisions according to §
154.052(A)(1).
            1.   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application and
required informational submissions to determine conformance with the zoning and
subdivision ordinances. The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to
make a final decision on the application.
         (b)   Minor subdivisions according to §
154.052(A)(2) and (3).
            1.   Upon receipt of the completed application and required
informational submissions, the Zoning Administrator shall set a date for review
of the minor subdivision by the City Council.
            2.   Before a minor subdivision shall be recorded or be of any
validity, it shall be forwarded to the City Council for consideration and final
approval.
         (c)   Expiration of approval.
            1.   City approval for a minor subdivision shall become null and
void if, within one year after such approval, the minor subdivision has not
been duly filed and recorded with the Wright County Recorder's Office.
            2.   An extension from this requirement may be granted by the City
Council upon the city's receipt of a request for extension. A request for an
extension shall be in writing and led with the city at least 14 days before the
voidance of the approved minor subdivision, lot combination, or lot line
adjustment unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator. There shall
be no charge for the filing of such request. The request for extension shall
state facts showing a good faith attempt was made to meet the recording
requirement.
   (C)   Design standards. The minor subdivision shall conform to all design
standards as specified in this chapter, including §§
154.021 through
154.029. Any proposed deviation from the standards shall require the processing
of a variance request.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.053 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   In order to ensure that all applicants are informed of the procedural
requirements and minimum standards of this chapter and the requirements or
limitations imposed by other city ordinances, code provisions, or plans prior
to the development of a preliminary plat, all applicants shall present a sketch
plan to the Zoning Administrator prior to filing a preliminary plat.
   (B)   Comments on the sketch plan shall not be considered binding in regard
to subsequent plat review.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to refer the sketch
plan to the Planning Commission and/or City Council for review and comment.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.054 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   The applicant shall file a request for preliminary plat approval
and the accompanying fee at least 22 days prior to the next regular Planning
Commission meeting at which the request may be considered. The application
shall be accompanied by a fee as provided for by City Council resolution,
escrow as reasonably determined by the Zoning Administrator, and all required
supplemental materials.
      (2)   After the city has received the request for a plat approval, it
shall inform the applicant within 15 days whether the submittal was complete.
The preliminary plat shall be considered as being officially complete only when
all of the information requirements are complied with, the appropriate fees
paid, and escrows deposited.
         (a)   If deemed not complete, the applicant will be informed of needed
material or information to be made complete.
         (b)   If no notification of completion is made by the city within 15
days, the request will be placed on a regular Planning Commission agenda for
consideration.
      (3)   Where appropriate, the city staff will meet with the applicant to
discuss the request and related information.
      (4)   Upon receipt of all the required information, the Zoning
Administrator may forward the application and required information to the
appropriate city staff/consultants and city commissions for review and
technical reports. The Zoning Administrator shall refer copies of the
preliminary plat to the Park Board and/or county, state, or other public
jurisdictions for its review and comments, where appropriate and when required
as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Hearing.
      (1)   When an application is determined to be complete, the Zoning
Administrator shall schedule a public hearing for public review of the
preliminary plat. The hearing shall be held by the Planning Commission after
adequate time has been allowed for staff and advisory body review of the plat.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall consist of a legal property description
and a description of the request and shall be published in the official
newspaper at least ten days prior to the hearing. Written notification of the
hearing shall be mailed at least ten days prior to all owners of land within
350 feet of the boundary of the property in question. Failure of a property
owner to receive the notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set
forth within this chapter, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply
with the notice requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Planning Commission action.
      (1)   The applicant, or a designated representative thereof, shall appear
before the Planning Commission at the public hearing in order to answer
questions concerning the proposed request.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council following the close of the public hearing.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission has not acted upon the preliminary plat,
and the statutory review period will expire before the next regularly scheduled
Planning Commission meeting, the Council may act on the preliminary plat
without the Planning Commission's recommendation.
   (D)   City Council action.
      (1)   Upon completion of the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the request shall be placed on the agenda of the City Council. The
report and recommendations shall be entered in and made part of the permanent
written record of the City Council meeting.
      (2)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the Planning
Commission and city staff, the City Council shall have the option to set and
hold a public hearing if deemed necessary or take action based on Planning
Commission recommendation. The City Council shall make recorded findings of
fact and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare. The City Council shall adopt a resolution
approving or denying the request.
      (3)   The Council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within
120 days following submittal of a complete application, unless the time for
Council decision has been extended pursuant to a written agreement with the
applicant.
      (4)   If the preliminary plat is denied by the City Council, the reasons
for such action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council. If the
preliminary plat is approved, the approval shall not constitute final
acceptance of the layout. Subsequent approval will be required of the
engineering proposals and other features and requirements as specified by this
chapter to be indicated on the final plat. The City Council may require such
revisions in the preliminary plat and final plat as it deems necessary for the
health, safety, general welfare, and convenience of the city.
      (5)   The City Council reserves the right to decline approval of a
preliminary plat if due regard is not shown for the preservation of all natural
features, such as topography, trees, watercourses, scenic points, prehistoric
and historical spots, and similar community assets, which, if preserved, will
add attractiveness and stability to the proposed development of the property.
      (6)   Approval of a preliminary plat shall be null and void unless within
one year after receiving the last required approval of the preliminary plat
there shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator a final plat or plats for
all or a portion of the approved preliminary plat in accordance with the
conditions upon which approval was granted by the Council. An extension from
this requirement may be granted by the City Council upon the reception of a
request for extension. An extension shall be requested in writing and led with
the city at least 14 days before the voidance of the approved preliminary plat
unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator. There shall be no charge
for the filing of such request. The request for extension shall state facts
showing a good faith attempt was made to meet the final plat submission
requirement.
      (7)   All preliminary plats must be final platted into lots, blocks, and
outlots within one year of preliminary plat approval. All outlots must be
platted into lots and blocks within five years of the recording of the initial
final plat, unless otherwise approved by the City Council.
      (8)   In the event of changes to city, county, state, and federal
development regulations, the city may require a preliminary plat to be amended
to incorporate applicable changes, except as may be prohibited by Minnesota
Statutes.
      (9)   Should the applicant desire to amend a preliminary plat as
approved, an amended preliminary plat may be submitted. The city may require
the applicant to follow the same procedure as a new preliminary plat. No public
hearing will be required for the amendment if the opinion of the city is that
the scope of the changes does not constitute a new preliminary plat. A filing
fee, as established by the city, shall be charged for amendment processing.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.055 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Filing. After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat
shall be submitted for review as set forth in the following divisions. The city
may agree to review the preliminary and final plat simultaneously. The final
plat shall incorporate all changes, modifications, and revisions required by
the city. Otherwise, it shall strictly conform to the approved preliminary
plat.
   (B)   Approval of the City Council.
      (1)   The city staff shall examine the final plat and prepare a
recommendation to the City Council. If needed, staff may bring the final plat
to the Planning Commission for review and a recommendation on whether the final
plat is substantially similar to the approved preliminary plat prior to review
by the City Council.
      (2)   The final plat, together with the recommendations of city staff and
the development agreement, shall be submitted to the City Council for
consideration.
      (3)   The City Council shall review and approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days as required by M.S. § 462.358.
         (a)   If accepted, the final plat and development agreement shall be
approved by resolution, which shall provide for the acceptance of all
agreements for basic improvements, public dedication, and other requirements as
indicated by the City Council.
         (b)   If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to approve a plat
shall be set forth in the proceedings of the Council and reported to the person
or persons applying for such approval.
   (C)   Development agreement. Simultaneously with recording or registering a
final plat, the applicant shall execute and record a development agreement with
the city which controls the installation of all required improvements and
assures compliance with all conditions of approval. The agreement will require
all improvements and approval conditions to comply with approved engineering
standards and applicable regulations.
   (D)   Special assessments.
      (1)   When any existing special assessments which have been levied
against the property described are to be divided and allocated to the
respective lots in the proposed plat, city staff shall:
         (a)   Estimate the clerical cost of preparing a revised assessment
role;
         (b)   File the same with the County Auditor; and
         (c)   Make such division and allocation.
      (2)   Upon approval by the Council of all costs associated with the
development and filing of the assessment role, the same shall be paid to the
Zoning Administrator before recording the final plat at Wright County.
   (E)   Street addresses. The city shall assign street names and address
numbers.
   (F)   Recording final plat.
      (1)   If the final plat and development agreement are approved by the
City Council, the applicant shall record them with the County Recorder within
one year after the approval or approval of the final plat shall be considered
void, unless a request for a time extension is submitted in writing and
approved by the City Council.
      (2)   The applicant shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the Zoning
Administrator with a print and reproducible tracing of the final plat showing
evidence of the recording.
      (3)   No building permits shall be let for construction of any structure
on any lot in the plat until the city has received evidence of the plat and
development agreement being recorded by the county and the provisions of the
subdivision's development agreement have been satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.056 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   From time to time, the Planning Commission may, of its own motion,
upon petition, or at the direction of the City Council, cause to be prepared
amendments supplementing or changing regulations herein established.
   (B)   Before any proposed amendment can be acted on, a public hearing shall
be held by the Planning
Commission with notice given in the official newspaper at least ten days prior
to the hearing.
   (C)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission, the City
Council shall study the Planning Commission's recommendation and approve or
disapprove the amendment.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.057 SUBDIVISION VARIANCE.
   (A)   Subdivisions which do not meet the requirements in this chapter may
request a subdivision variance.
   (B)   A petition for any such variance shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all of the facts relied upon by the applicant.
   (C)   The variance application shall be reviewed using the same procedure
for preliminary plats identified in §
154.054.
   (D)   The City Council may grant a variance from strict compliance with the
subdivision regulations contained in this chapter when it finds that all of the
following conditions exist:
      (1)   That the requested variance is in harmony with the general purposes
and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   That the requested subdivision variance is consistent with the St.
Michael comprehensive plan and all other applicable city plans;
      (3)   That the authoring of such variance will not be of substantial
detriment to the community health, safety or general welfare and will not
materially impair the purposes of the subdivision regulations or the public
interest;
      (4)   That the applicant has established that there are special
circumstances or conditions affecting the property, such as particular physical
surroundings, shape, or topographical conditions, such that a particular
hardship to the owner would result if the strict letter of these regulations
are carried out;
      (5)   That the intended use and conditions of the property forming the
basis for granting a variance are unique and not of so general or recurrent a
nature as to cause the formulation and adoption of a general subdivision
regulation for similar uses and conditions; and
      (6)   That the variance will not in any manner vary from the provisions
of the zoning code.
   (E)   In approving a variance, the City Council may require such conditions
as will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives of the standards
or requirements of these regulations.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 154.058 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be a misdemeanor to
sell, trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with, any plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat, or replat shall
have first been recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      (2)   Receiving or recording unapproved plats. It shall be unlawful for a
private individual to receive or record in any public office any plans or plats
of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys, or other portions of the
same intended to be dedicated to public or private use or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this chapter, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the City Council.
      (3)   Misrepresentations. It shall be a misdemeanor for any person owning
an addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys, or avenues of the addition or
subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the City Council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when the improvements have not been
so constructed, supervised, or inspected.
   (B)   Penalty. Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and be punished as provided in §
10.99 of the city code. Each month during which compliance is delayed shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.012   Authority
   
155.013   Administration
   
155.014   Interpretation
   
155.015   Nonconformities
   
155.016   Definitions
General Zoning
   
155.021   Establishment of zoning districts
   
155.022   Official zoning map
   
155.023   District boundaries
   
155.024   General provisions for zoning districts
Residential Base Zoning Districts
   
155.031   Application
   
155.032   District intents
   
155.033   Uses
   
155.034   Lot, site, and building dimensions
   
155.035   District standards
Non-Residential Base Zoning Districts
   
155.041   Application
   
155.042   District intents
   
155.043   Uses
   
155.044   Lot, site, and building dimensions
   
155.045   District standards
Special or Overlay Zoning Districts
   
155.051   Planned Unit Development (PUD) District
   
155.052   Wetland Overlay District
   
155.053   Shoreland Overlay District
   
155.054   Floodplain Overlay District
Use-Specific Standards
   
155.061   Principal residential use-specific standards
   
155.062   Principal institutional use-specific standards
   
155.063   Principal commercial use-specific standards
   
155.064   Principal industrial use-specific standards
   
155.065   Principal agricultural use-specific standards
   
155.066   Principal utility use-specific standards
   
155.067   Accessory use-specific standards
Development Standards
   
155.071   Performance standards
   
155.072   Traffic visibility
   
155.073   Architectural standards
   
155.074   Driveways, parking, and loading
   
155.075   Fences
   
155.076   Landscaping and screening
   
155.077   Lighting
   
155.078   Grading, mining, excavation and earthwork construction
Signs
   
155.081   Findings, purpose, and effect
   
155.082   General provisions
   
155.083   Prohibited signs
   
155.084   Signs allowed without a permit
   
155.085   Temporary signs
   
155.086   Permanent signs
   
155.087   Permits required, inspection and removal
Procedures and Enforcement
   
155.091   Common procedures and requirements
   
155.092   Site plan review and enforcement
   
155.093   Land alteration permit
   
155.094   Conditional use permit (CUP)
   
155.095   Interim use permit (IUP)
   
155.096   Variance
   
155.097   Zoning code text or map amendment
   
155.098   Procedure for processing a Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
155.099   Enforcement
Cross-reference:
   Culverts, see §
93.02
   Planning Commission, see §
33.01 et seq.
   Sidewalks and curbs, see §
93.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.012 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Title. Except where otherwise provided, this chapter shall be known as
the "St. Michael Zoning Ordinance" except as referred to herein, where it shall
be known as "this chapter."
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
         (a)   Provide for the orderly, economic, and safe development of land
and urban services and facilities;
         (b)   Promote the public health and safety by protecting against fire,
explosion, noxious fumes, offensive noise, dust, odor, heat, glare, and other
pollution of the air; and
         (c)   Promote the general welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
      (2)   That purpose is accomplished, in part, by dividing the city into
zones or districts as to the location, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, and use of land and structures for residence, business, and
industrial purposes and by fixing reasonable standards to which buildings,
structures, and land shall conform for the benefit of all.
   (C)   Effective date and authority to adopt.
      (1)   The effective date of this chapter is December 19, 2024. This
chapter hereby supersedes and replaces in its entirety
Chapter 155: Zoning of Title XV: Land Use of the St. Michael, Minnesota Code on
the effective date hereof.
         (a)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development
plans (general, revised, or final) filed on or after December 19, 2024. Plans
on file before December 19, 2024 shall be reviewed for compliance with the
zoning chapter effective at the time of filing.
         (b)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all permits filed
on or after December 19, 2024. Permit applications on file before December 19,
2024 shall be reviewed for compliance with the zoning chapter effective at the
time of filing.
      (2)   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the
Municipal Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 through 462.363. Whenever other
applicable city, state, or federal laws or rules referenced in this chapter
have been amended or superseded, this chapter shall also be considered amended
accordingly.
   (D)   Compliance required. No structure shall be located, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, converted, or enlarged, nor shall any
structure or land be used or be designed to be used, except in full compliance
with all the provisions of this chapter and after the lawful issuance of all
permits and certificates required by this chapter.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate, annul, impair, or interfere with any existing easement,
covenant, or any other private agreement. However, provided that where the
regulations of this chapter are more restrictive or impose higher standards or
requirements on such easements, covenants, or other private agreements, the
requirements of this chapter shall govern.
   (F)   Severability and non-liability.
      (1)   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
      (2)   If any application of this chapter to a particular structure, land,
or water is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment shall not be applicable to any other structure,
land, or water not specifically included in said judgment.
      (3)   The city does not guarantee, warrant, or represent that only those
areas designated as flood lands will be subject to periodic inundation and
hereby asserts that there is no liability on the part of the City of St.
Michael, its agencies, or employees for any flood damages, sanitation problems,
or structural damages that may occur as a result of reliance upon and
conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.013 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator who shall be appointed by the Council.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall administer, interpret, and enforce the
provisions of this chapter
and shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
but not limited to all maps, amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals,
and applications therefore; and
      (2)   Issue all permits and certificates as required by this chapter.
      (3)   Institute, in the name of the city, any appropriate actions or
proceedings against a violator, as provided by law.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may delegate specific responsibility to any
individual city employee, but shall remain responsible for all decisions made
by those employees.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.014 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Relationship to comprehensive plan. It is the policy of the city that
the enforcement, amendment, and administration of this chapter be accomplished
with due consideration of the recommendations contained in the comprehensive
plan as developed and amended from time-to-time by the City Council of the
city. The Council recognizes the comprehensive plan as the policy guide
responsible for regulation of land use and development in accordance with the
policies and purpose herein set forth.
   (B)   Conflicting regulations or provisions. Where the provisions of this
chapter are inconsistent with state or federal law or any other city ordinance,
code provision, or regulation, the more restrictive provision governs unless
otherwise expressly stated.
   (C)   Use of graphics, illustrations, figures, photos, and cross-references.
      (1)   Graphics, illustrations, figures, and photos are provided for
illustrative purposes only and shall not be construed as regulations. Where a
conflict may occur between the text and any graphic, illustration, figure, or
photo, the text shall control.
      (2)   In some instances, cross-references between chapters, divisions,
sections, and subsections are provided that include the chapter, division,
section, or subsection number along with the name of the reference. Where a
conflict may occur between the given cross-reference number and name, the name
shall control.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.015 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances, and conditions under which nonconforming
buildings, structures, and uses will be operated and maintained.
      (2)   This chapter establishes separate districts, each of which is an
appropriate area for the location of uses which are permitted in that district.
It is necessary and consistent with the establishment of these districts that
nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses not be permitted to continue
without restriction.
      (3)   It is the intent of this section that all nonconforming uses shall
be eventually brought into conformity.
   (B)   Continuation rights.
      (1)   Legal nonconforming buildings, structures, and uses may be
continued, including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, but may not be extended, expanded, or changed unless to a
conforming structure or use, except as permitted by the Planning Commission
subject to the right of appeal to the City Council in accordance with the
provisions of §
155.091(F) of this chapter.
      (2)   Any proposed structure which will, under this chapter, become
nonconforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior
to the effective date of this chapter may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans provided construction is started within 60 days of the effective
date of this chapter, is not abandoned for a period of more than 120 days, and
continues to completion within two years. Such structure shall thereafter be a
legally nonconforming structure and use.
      (3)   When either the city, Wright County, or the State of Minnesota
creates or worsens a nonconforming setback or prevents or worsens compliance
with the applicable parking requirements by acquiring a portion of a lot for a
public improvement, the lot owner shall be entitled as a matter of right to
obtain a variance for the nonconforming setback or parking condition so created
or worsened. This section shall apply only to acquisitions taking place after
September 1, 2007, and shall not apply to acquisitions taking place in the
normal course of the land subdivision (platting) process.
      (4)   There is a limitation to the continuance rights for nonconformities
in National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) floodplain areas as determined by
the Zoning Administrator and City Engineer.
   (C)   Maintenance and alterations.
      (1)   Normal maintenance of a conforming building or other structure
containing or related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including
necessary nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations which do not
physically extend or intensify the nonconforming use provided:
         (a)   The alterations do not expand the foundation and/or building
volume, unless specifically allowed by this chapter;
         (b)   The alterations do not increase the building occupancy capacity
or parking demand; and
         (c)   The alterations do not increase the nonconformity of the
building or use.
      (2)   Lawful nonconforming, non-income-producing single- and two-unit
residential dwellings may be expanded or altered to improve nonconformance, but
will not be increased, and the expansion or alteration does not change the unit
occupancy capacity or parking demand.
      (3)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a structure in
a safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe by the Zoning
Administrator, provided the necessary repairs shall not constitute more than
50% of the fair market value of the structure as determined by the County
Assessor.
      (4)   No nonconformity shall be moved to another lot or to any other part
of the parcel of land upon which the same was constructed or was conducted at
the time of this chapter's adoption unless the moving shall bring the non-
conformance into compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Restoration.
      (1)   Any legal, nonconforming use that is destroyed by fire, flood, or
other peril to the extent of more than 50% of its estimated market value, as
determined by the County Assessor at the time of damage, may be reconstructed
and used as before if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The nonconformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of
less than one year;
         (b)   A building permit has been applied for within 180 days of when
the property was damaged;
         (c)   Such reconstruction is performed within 12 months of the date of
the damage; and
         (d)   The restored structure covers no greater area and contains no
greater cubic content than before the damage.
      (2)   The city may impose reasonable conditions upon a zoning or building
permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property or
water body.
      (3)   When a nonconforming structure in the Shoreland District with less
than 50% of the required setback from the water is destroyed by fire or other
peril to the extent of more than 50% of its estimated market value, as
indicated in the records of the County Assessor at the time of damage, the
structure setback may be increased if practicable and reasonable conditions are
placed upon a zoning or building permit to mitigate created impact on the
adjacent property or body of water.
   (E)   Change in use.
      (1)   A lawful nonconformity may be changed to lessen the nonconformity
of use. Once a nonconformity has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so
altered to increase the nonconformity.
      (2)   When any lawful nonconforming use of a structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any nonconforming use.
   (F)   Discontinuance. Whenever a lawful nonconformity is discontinued for a
period of one year, it shall be made to conform with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.016 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules of construction. The language set forth in the text of this
chapter shall be interpreted in accordance with the following rules of
construction:
      (1)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the
singular.
      (2)   The present tense includes the past and the future tenses, and the
future the present.
      (3)   The word "shall" is mandatory while the word "may" is permissive.
      (4)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter.
      (5)   Whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in the text of
this chapter, its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the definition
thereof.
      (6)   All measured distances expressed in feet shall be the nearest tenth
of a foot.
   (B)   General definitions.
      ABUTTING. Making direct contact with or immediately bordering.
      ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
      ADJACENT. In close proximity to or neighboring, not necessarily abutting.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
      AWNING. A temporary hood or cover which projects from the wall of a
building, and of a type which can be retracted, folded, or collapsed against
the face of a supporting building.
      BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of excavation below ground level.
      BLOCK. That property abutting on one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or railroad rights-of-way
or unsubdivided acreage.
      BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff , or embankment having
all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Part or all of the feature in a shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high-water
level of the waterbody;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
      BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top
of a bluff.
      BLUFF, TOE OF. The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average slope
exceeding 18%.
      BLUFF, TOP OF. The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
      BOG. A Type 8 Wetland as defined by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Circular 39.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of a street right-of-way not occupied by pavement.
      BUFFER. A strip of land utilized to screen or partially screen a use or
property from another use or property or to shield or mitigate noise, lights,
or other impacts.
      BUFFER STRIP. An area of vegetated ground cover abutting a wetland that,
either in its condition or through intervention, has the characteristics
identified in §
155.052.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
      BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls. When
separated by division walls without openings, each portion of such building
shall be deemed a separate building.
      BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL. A building or structure that is:
         (a)   Located on agricultural land as determined by the governing
assessor for the city;
         (b)   Designed, constructed, and used to house farm implements,
livestock or agricultural products under M.S. § 173.13, Subd. 23; and used by
the owner, lessee, and sublessee of the building and member of their immediate
families, their employees, and persons engaged in the pick-up or delivery of
agricultural products.
      BUILDING COVERAGE. The amount of area within a property covered by
buildings. Driveways, patios, etc. are not included in this definition.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average
elevation of the finish grade along the front of the building to the highest
point of the roof surface of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof,
and to the mean height level between the eaves and ridge of a gable, hip, or
gambrel roof.
      BUILDING LINE. A line measured across the width of the lot at the point
where the principal structure is placed in accordance with setback provisions.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The building official provided for in the Minnesota
State Building Code.
      BUSINESS. Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise where
merchandise is manufactured, exhibited, or sold, or where services are offered
for compensation.
      CELLAR. That portion of a building having more than one-half of the floor
to ceiling height below the average land grade.
      CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
      CITY COUNCIL. The governing body for the City of St. Michael.
      COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any privately owned open space including private
parks, nature areas, playgrounds and trails, including accessory recreational
buildings and structures which are an integral part of a development.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The long-range plan for the City of St. Michael which
sets forth the city's goals, policies, and guidelines for land use,
transportation, municipal utilities, city expansion, management and development
policies to guide the city's growth and from which the city's zoning
regulations are based.
      CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Council, in accordance
with procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable
the Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
      CONTIGUOUS. Next to, abutting, or touching and having a common boundary.
      CORNICE. A horizontal molded projection that crowns or completes a
building or wall.
      DECK. A flat-floored, roofless platform adjoining a dwelling, used
primarily for recreation.
      DEPOSIT. Any rock, soil, gravel, sand, or other material deposited
naturally or by man into a water body, watercourse, floodplain, or wetland.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to construction of, or additions or substantial
improvements to, buildings, other structures, or accessory uses, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling, operations or
storage of materials or equipment.
      DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
      DITCH. An open channel to conduct the flow of water.
      DIVERSION. A channel that intercepts surface water runoff and that
changes the accustomed course of all or part of a stream.
      DRAINAGE. The removal of surface water or ground water from land.
      DREDGING. Enlarging or cleaning out a water body, watercourse, or
wetland.
      DRIVEWAY. A private drive to an off-street destination such as a garage
or parking area providing access for motor vehicles from a public way or
driveway approach.
         (a)   DRIVEWAY ACCESS (CURB CUT). An area between the curb or pavement
edge of a public street and the private property line intended to provide
access for vehicles from a roadway or public street to a driveway on public
property.
         (b)   OFF-DRIVE PARKING AREA. An off-street area connected to a
driveway intended for the parking of vehicles.
         (c)   TURN AROUND PAD. An off-street area connected to a driveway
intended to allow vehicles to turn around on site and exit onto roadways in a
forward-facing position.
      DUMPSTER. A container used for the disposal of rubbish or waste
materials.
      DWELLING UNIT SIZE. The square footage of the lot which is covered by a
dwelling unit footprint computed by multiplying the outside measurements of the
dwelling. In computing the square footage, the measurements shall exclude the
dimensions of any garage. This term is to be distinguished from "floor area."
      EASEMENT. A granted right by a land owner to a person, government agency,
or public utility company to use his or her land for a specific purpose.
      EAVES. The projecting overhang at the lower edge of a roof.
      EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the
action of water, wind, ice or gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the
activities of people and nature.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      EXCAVATION. Any land-disturbing activity by which organic matter, earth,
sand, gravel, rock, trees, vegetation, or other ground cover is cleared,
graded, cut into, dug, quarried, uncovered, removed, displaced, relocated or
moved, and includes the conditions resulting therefrom.
      FAMILY. One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage,
adoption, or foster care, or a group of not more than three persons not so
related, maintaining a common household and using common cooking and kitchen
facilities.
      FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall, or gate erected as a dividing
marker, barrier, or enclosure.
         (a)   BOUNDARY LINE FENCE. A fence located within five feet of a
property line.
         (b)   INTERIOR YARD FENCE. A fence located five feet beyond a property
line.
      FILLING. The act of depositing any rock, soil, gravel, sand, or other
material so as to fill or partly fill a water body, watercourse, or wetland.
      FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for St. Michael, Minnesota.
      FLOOD PLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake, or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
      FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining flood plain which are reasonably required
to carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      FLOOR AREA. The floor area of a building is the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, measured from the
exterior faces of the exterior walls.
      FRONTAGE. The portion of a property that abuts a public or private
street. For lots which abut streets on multiple sides, the required frontage
for a lot shall only be measured along the front lot line.
      GARAGE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage of
automotive, motor- driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the
building to which it is accessory.
      GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving, or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
      GRADE, FINISHED. The final elevation of the ground surface after man-made
alterations, such as grading, grubbing, filling, mounding, or excavating, have
been made on the ground surface.
      GRADE, NATURAL. The natural grade or elevation of the ground surface that
existed prior to man-made alterations such as grading, grubbing, filling,
mounding or excavating.
      GRADING. Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
      GROUNDWATER. Water contained below the surface of the earth in the
saturated zone including, without limitation, all waters whether under
confined, unconfined, or perched conditions, in near surface unconsolidated
sediment or regolith, or in rock formations deeper underground. The term
GROUNDWATER shall be synonymous with UNDERGROUND WATER.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. An artificial or natural surface through which water,
air, or roots cannot penetrate.
      JUNK or REFUSE. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris,
whether or not stored or used in conjunction with dismantling, processing,
salvaging, storing, baling, disposal, or other use or disposition. JUNK
includes vehicles, tires, vehicle parts, equipment, paper, rags, metal, glass,
building materials, household appliances, brush, wood, and lumber.
      KITCHEN. A habitable room intended to be used for the cooking of food or
the preparation of meals.
      LAND RECLAMATION. The process of the re-establishment of acceptable
topography (i.e. slopes), vegetative cover, and soil suitability and the
establishment of safe conditions appropriate to the subsequent use of the land.
      LANDSCAPING. The modification of the landscape for an aesthetic or
functional purpose. Landscaping includes the preservation of existing
vegetation and the continued maintenance thereof together with grading and
installation of new planting materials.
      LOADING SPACE. That portion of a lot or plot designed to serve the
purpose of loading and/or unloading all types of vehicles.
      LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on
two or more intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in
alignment of a single street, the interior angle of which is 135° or less.
         (b)   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. An interior lot having frontage on two
streets.
         (c)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot, including through
lots.
         (d)   IRREGULAR LOT. Any interior lot where the opposing property
lines are generally not parallel, such as a pie-shaped lot on a cul-de-sac, or
where the lot lines have unusual elongations, angled, or are curvilinear, often
due to topography or other natural land features.
         (e)   THROUGH LOT. A lot fronting on two parallel streets.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2166.png]
 
      LOT AREA. The area of the horizontal plane within the lot lines. For
purpos es of determ ining accessory space, the lot area shall exclud e all
property within the ordinary high-w ater level or bound ary of all wetlan ds,
streams, lakes, rivers, or storm water ponds. It shall also exclude any road
easement for all parcels created after June 1, 2006.
      LOT LINE. A propert y boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
      LOT LINE, FRONT. The front line of a lot shall be, for purposes of
complying with this chapter, that boundary abutting a public right-of-way
having the least width. The Zoning Administrator may designate the front lot
line based on the practical front yard of the property as determined by such
factors as the existing or proposed building configuration and consideration of
the characteristics of surrounding properties.
      LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is part of a subdivision the plat of which
has been recorded in the County Recorder's Office, or a lot described by metes
and bounds the deed to which has been recorded in the County Recorder's Office,
prior to July 23, 2024.
      LOT WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at right angles at the required minimum building setback line.
      MNRAM. The Minnesota Routine Assessment Methodology (MnRAM) as referenced
in Minnesota Rules 8420. MnRAM is a field tool used to assess wetland functions
on a qualitative basis. Functions include floral diversity and integrity;
wildlife habitat; water quality protection; flood and stormwater attenuation;
recreation, aesthetics, education and science; fishery habitat; shoreline
protection; groundwater interaction and commercial uses.
      NATURAL DRAINAGE SYSTEM. All land surface areas which by nature of their
contour configuration collect, store, and channel surface water runoff.
      NONCONFORMITIES. Uses, structures, or lots that do not comply with the
current zoning ordinance.
         (a)   LEGAL. Any structure or use which lawfully existed at the time
of the passage of this chapter, but does not conform to the regulations of this
chapter.
         (b)   ILLEGAL. Any structure or use which did not conform to the
regulations of this chapter at the time it was established or does not conform
to the regulations of this chapter.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across,
or projecting into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
      OPEN SPACE. See USABLE OPEN SPACE.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of water basins, watercourses,
public waters, and public waters wetlands, and:
         (a)   The ordinary high-water level is an elevation delineating the
highest water level that has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to
leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly the point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial;
         (b)   For watercourses, the ordinary high-water level is the elevation
of the top of the bank of the channel; and
         (c)   For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high-water level is
the operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
      PATIO/PLATFORM - GROUND LEVEL. A structure made of concrete, brick, wood,
or other building materials, with a height of eight inches or less from ground
level from any point of the structure, and is not attached to a principal or
accessory structure.
      PERFORMANCE STANDARD. A criterion established to control noise, odor,
toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or
heat or other nuisance elements generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
      PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, corporation, or
organization of any kind.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A type of development characterized by a
unified site design which may include a variety of land uses and structures.
The planned unit development is distinguished from the traditional subdivision
and site plan approval processes of development in that development standards
such as setbacks, height limits, and minimum lot sizes may be altered by
negotiation and agreement between the developer and the municipality to improve
site design and operation.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The St. Michael Planning Commission, except when
otherwise designated.
      PLAT. A map, drawing, or chart representing a proposed subdivision of
land submitted by the owner with intent to record.
      PLOT. A tract, other than one unit of a recorded plat or subdivision,
occupied and used or intended to be occupied and used as a building site and
improved or intended to be improved by the erection thereon of a building and
accessory buildings and having a frontage upon a public street or highway and
including as a minimum such open spaces as required under this chapter.
      PORCH, UNENCLOSED. An entrance structure at the ground floor entry level
consisting of a roof and a floor and where the front and sides of the structure
remain open to the outside elements. Such entrance structure shall not have
mesh screening.
      PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. A portable container capable of movement from
one site to another, that is used for the temporary storage of personal
property.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board fully authorized to furnish, and furnishing under municipal regulation to
the public, electricity, gas, steam, communication services, telegraph
services, transportation, or water.
      PUBLIC VALUE CREDIT (PVC). Wetland replacement credit that can only be
used for the portion of wetland replacement requiring greater than a one to one
ratio of wetland fill to wetland replacement.
      PUBLIC WATERS. Any water as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 15, 15a.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a reach.
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in the Flood Insurance Study.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one
foot above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, walkway, drainageway, railroad, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer, trail, or other public use.
      RIPARIAN. Land adjacent to public waters, drainage systems, wetlands, or
locally designated priority waters.
      ROOF LINE. The top of the coping or, when the building has a pitched
roof, at the intersection of the outside wall with the roof.
      SCIENTIFIC OR NATURAL AREA. An area designated by local, state or federal
action as providing unique qualities such as recreational, scientific or
educational uses. This would include, but is not limited to areas that:
         (a)   Have resources restored for specific purposes, such as water
quality improvements, wetland mitigation or wildlife habitat;
         (b)   Are recognized as an Outstanding Resource Value Water (Minnesota
Rules Chapter 7050);
         (c)   Are within an environmental corridor identified in a local water
management plans;
         (d)   Are part of a sole-source aquifer recharge area;
         (e)   Provide endangered species habitat; or
         (f)   Have biological communities or species that are listed in the
Natural Heritage inventory database.
      SCREENING. The presence of an artificial barrier, vegetation, or
topography which makes any structure on any property visually inconspicuous.
      SEASONAL PORCH. A structure attached to the principal structure, designed
to be used during the warmer seasons and which may contain partial wall
construction and a roof, but contains no enclosed space above or below, and is
not equipped with windows or heating and cooling systems.
      SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral
and organic, that is in suspension, is being transported or has been moved by
water, air or ice, and has come to rest on the earth's surface either above or
below water level.
      SETBACK LINE. The mean horizontal distance between the property line and
the line of the building or the allowable building line as defined by the yard
regulations of this chapter.
      SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of
a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
      SHORELAND. Land located from public water 1,000 feet from the Ordinary
High Water Level of a lake, ponds or flowage and 300 feet from a river or
stream or the landward extent of a floodplain designated by ordinance on a
river or stream, whichever is greater.
      SHRUB. A small perennial bush, having several woody stems that grow from
the base, is not tree-like in appearance.
      SITE PLAN. A map drawn to scale depicting the development of a tract of
land, including but not limited to the location in relationship of structures,
streets, driveways, recreation areas, parking areas, utilities, landscaping,
and walkways as related to a proposed development.
      SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal usually
expressed in percent or degree.
      STEEP SLOPE. Lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
      STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of a floor
and the surface of the floor next above it, or, if no such floor is above, the
space between such floor and the ceiling next above it.
         (a)   HALF STORY. A space under a sloping roof where the line
intersecting the roof decking and wall face is not more than three feet above
the top floor level, and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor
area is finished off for use. A half story containing independent apartment or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
      STREAM. A natural channel or bed that conducts a flow of water, as in a
brook or creek.
      STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane or place or
however otherwise designated.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, pergolas,
decks, gazebos, travel trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria,
and other similar items.
      STRUCTURE, ACCESSORY. A subordinate building or structure on the same lot
which is not attached to the principal structure, exclusively occupied by or
devoted to a use incidental to the main use. Accessory structures may include
garages, sheds, carports, greenhouses, and other similar structures.
         (a)   PRINCIPAL USE or PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE. A structure that is
exclusively occupied by or devoted to the principal use on a property.
      STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a single plot, tract, or parcel of land, or
a part thereof, into two or more lots, tracts, or parcels of land for the
purpose of either immediate or future transfer of ownership for residential,
commercial, or industrial purposes; or the division of a single lot, tract, or
parcel of land into two parking areas or leaseholds for the purpose of either
immediate or future building development for residential, commercial, or
industrial purposes; provided such division does not result in a violation of
any other section of this chapter or any other ordinance or code provision of
the city.
      SURFACE WATER. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
springs, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and irrigation
systems whether natural or artificial, public or private, except that surface
waters do not include treatment basins or ponds that were constructed from
upland.
      TERRACE. A platform that is not held up by posts and footings and that
projects from the wall of the principal structure, is surrounded by a railing
and has no exterior accesses.
      TREE. A woody stemmed perennial plant with lateral branching from the
main stem(s) occurring a minimum of six inches off the ground and a minimum
height of ten feet at maturity.
         (a)   DECIDUOUS TREE. A tree which naturally sheds its leaves/foliage
annually.
         (b)   EVERGREEN TREE. A tree with foliage that persists and remains
green year-round.
         (c)   ORNAMENTAL TREE. A tree that does not exceed more than 25 feet
in height or crown diameter at maturity and has an ornamental characteristics
to include showy flowers, fruit, foliage, or bark.
         (d)   SIGNIFICANT TREE. Significant trees are any healthy over-story
or coniferous tree over eight inches in diameter, as measured 54 inches from
the ground.
      UPLAND. All lands at an elevation above the normal high water mark.
      USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which
is graded, developed, and equipped and intended and maintained for either
active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and usable by
all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and their
guests. Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways, and parking areas shall not constitute
usable open space.
      USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
      USE, ACCESSORY. A use on the same lot with, and of a nature customarily
incidental and subordinate to, the principal use.
      USE, AUXILIARY. A use which, on its own, is capable of being a separate,
principal use, unlike an accessory use, but is designed or planned to function
as supplementary but complementary to a principal use together in the same
building or on the same site. An auxiliary use must be a permitted or
conditional use in the zoning district in which it is located.
      USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary use of land or buildings as distinguished
from subordinate or accessory uses.
      VARIANCE. Variances shall be granted as provided in §
155.096.
      VEGETATION. The sum total of plant life in some area; or a plant
community with distinguishable characteristics.
      VEGETATION, NATIVE. Plant species indigenous to or naturalized to the
state or plant species classified as native in the Minnesota Native Plant
Database (Minnesota Dept. of Natural Resources, 2002 or as amended). Native
vegetation does not include weeds.
      VISUALLY INCONSPICUOUS. Difficult to see or not readily noticeable.
      WATER BODY. A body of water (lake, pond) in a depression of land or
expanded part of a river, or an enclosed basin that holds water and is
surrounded by land.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel or depression through which water flows, such as a
river, a stream, or a creek, and may flow year-round or intermittently.
      WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage
system, bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing
drainage areas.
      WEEDS. Noxious weeds as defined and designated pursuant to the Minnesota
noxious weed law, or any volunteer plants, such as but not limited to spotted
knapweed (Centaurea maculosa) or burdock (Arctium minus). For the purpose of
this definition, weeds do not include dandelions or clover.
      WETLAND. Wetland has the meaning given under Minnesota Rule, part
8420.0111.
      WETLAND ALTERATION. Alteration of a wetland includes changes to the
wetland or wetland buffer strip in regards to size, depth or contour; dredging;
tilling; ditching; or changes in vegetation. Alterations would not include
wetland plantings or selective clearing or pruning of prohibited or restricted
noxious weeds as defined in M.S. § 18.77, unless within a conservation easement
in which case submission of and approval of a Vegetation Management Plan from
the city is required.
      WETLAND BUFFER STRIP. An area of vegetated groundcover around the
perimeter of a wetland that, either in its natural condition or through
intervention, has the characteristics of a buffer as defined in this section.
      WETLAND PLAN. A summary of all work items to be completed in relation to
any wetland alterations or wetland or wetland buffer strip restoration,
replacement, or construction and the estimated cost for each item. Work items
include, but are not limited to, wetland buffer strip monument purchase and
installation, weed control, landscaping within the wetland or wetland buffer
strip, wetland and wetland buffer strip monitoring or any items determined to
be incomplete during the development review process.
      WETLAND TYPE. Determined in accordance with United States Fish and
Wildlife Service (latest circular addition) and/or Minnesota Rules 8420. For
wetlands greater than 40 acres in the overall wetland type shall be one of the
following:
         (a)   The wetland type with the deepest water regime within the
wetland and within 300 feet of the impact;
         (b)   The wettest dominant water regime, if it is greater than 20% of
the wetland types present within the wetland; or
         (c)   Other method pre-approved in writing by the Zoning Administrator
or his or her designee. For wetlands less than 40 acres in size, the overall
wetland type shall be the wetland type with the deepest water regime within the
entire wetland.
      WILDLIFE HABITAT. Plant communities that support wildlife in a natural
undomesticated state.
      YARD. The open, unoccupied space on a lot surrounding its principal
building which is unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, except as
otherwise permitted in this chapter.
         (a)   FRONT YARD. A yard abutting a public or private road and
extending across the front of the lot between the side lot lines and lying
between the front line of the lot and the principal building. For lots fronting
on public bodies of water, the front yard shall be considered the portion of
the lot opposite the body of water. In the case of a corner lot abutting two or
more streets, all yards abutting the street shall be considered front yards.
         (b)   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and
lying between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
For irregular shaped lots, the measurement of the rear yard setback is taken
from a line drawn from side lot line(s) to side lot line(s) equal in length to
the required side yard setbacks, parallel to and at a maximum distance from the
front property line.
         (c)   SIDE YARD. A yard between the side line of the lot and the
nearest line of the building and extending from the front yard to the rear
yard.
      REAR YARD DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the rear line of
the building and the centerline of an alley, where an alley exists; otherwise a
rear lot line.
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed officer charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter or his or her designated
representative.
      ZONING DISTRICTS. Areas of the city (as defined on the zoning map) set
aside for specific uses with the specific requirements for use of development.
      ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as a part
thereof designating the zoning districts.
   (C)   Use definitions.
      ACCESSORY RETAIL. A retail or service use which is secondary and
incidental to the principal use on a property. Accessory retail may include but
not be limited to retail commercial activities, personal services, and food
service such as a cafeteria, delicatessen, or coffee shop.
      ADULT EDUCATION AND TRAINING FACILITY. A place where education or
instruction is regularly provided to groups of persons aged 18 or older in
areas including, but not necessarily limited to, the following: training in
adult literacy, employment skills or personal improvement; assembly or
production; business or clerical; computers; cosmetology or hairstyling;
electronics or mechanics; real estate; or skilled crafts.
      ADULT USE. Any business that is characterized by, or places a significant
emphasis on, providing its patrons with merchandise, services or entertainment
that is characterized by an emphasis on the depiction, exposing, describing,
discussing of "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
For purposes of this definition, adult establishments include, without
limitation, adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult massage
parlors, adult saunas, adult companionship establishments, adult health clubs,
adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotel or motel, and adult body painting studios.
         (a)   ADULT USE, ACCESSORY. The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as adult uses on a limited scale and which are incidental
to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the establishment.
Examples of such items include the sale of adult magazines, the sale and/or
rental of adult motion pictures, the sale of adult novelties, and the like.
         (b)   ADULT USE, PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services
which are classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business
or establishment, including, but not limited to, the following:
            1.   BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            2.   BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the
barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, or motion picture film if such building
or portion of a building is not open to the public generally but only to one or
more classes of the public excluding any minor by reason of age or if a
substantial or significant portion of such items are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of SPECIFIED
SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            3.   CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for
providing dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion of a
building excludes minors by virtue of age or if such dancing or other live
entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES
or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            4.   COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED
ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            5.   CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which
excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in
or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            6.   HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors
by reason of age, or if such club is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            7.   HOTEL or MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            8.   MASSAGE PARLOR or HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the service of
massage, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            9.   MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a
building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material
if such building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes
minors by virtue of age, or if such material is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS for
observation by patrons therein.
            10.   MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or display SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed, or otherwise depicted by such customers.
            11.   MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL
AREAS.
            12.   MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if such
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS for
observation by patrons therein.
            13.   NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
            14.   SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or
which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            15.   STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if such building or portion of
a building restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (c)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
            1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,
pubic region, buttock, anus, or female breast(s) below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; and
            2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         (d)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
            1.   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or clearly
depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence;
            2.   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
            3.   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks, or female breast;
            4.   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude
or clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
            5.   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
            6.   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
      AGRICULTURE. The use of land for agricultural purposes including farming,
dairying, pasturing, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, and animal and
poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or
storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
      ANIMAL-RELATED USE. Any use involving the care and keeping of animals,
including but not limited to commercial riding stables or kennels.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL STABLE. A structure in which horses are sheltered,
fed, or kept for sale or hire to the general public. This structure may be
either a freestanding principal use or may be counted as an accessory
structure.
         (b)   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any place where more than two dogs over six
months of age are kept, and where the business of selling, boarding, breeding,
showing, or grooming of dogs or other animals is conducted, with the exception
of veterinary clinics.
         (c)   KENNEL, RESIDENTIAL. Any place where more than two dogs over six
months of age are kept on premises which are zoned and occupied for residential
purposes, and where the keeping of such dogs is incidental to the occupancy of
the premises for residential purposes.
      ASSEMBLY USE. A group of persons gathered together at regular, scheduled
intervals for a particular purpose (e.g. religious, political, educational,
social or cultural). Types of assemblies include movie theaters, concert halls,
places of worship, auditoriums, banquet or meeting rooms, conference centers,
and the like.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A residential facility licensed by the state
which provides services on a regular basis, such as personal services, 24-hour
supervision, social activities, and health-related care and services, to
individuals who require the assistance, but who do not require the degree of
care and treatment that a hospital or skilled nursing facility provides.
      AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding, or reconditioning of
engines, motor vehicles, or trailers; collision service, including body, frame,
or fender straightening or repair; overall painting or paint jobs; and vehicle
steam cleaning.
      AUTO REPAIR, MINOR. Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding 12,000 pounds gross weight, but not
including any operation specified under AUTOMOBILE REPAIR, MAJOR.
      BREWPUB. A restaurant operated by a brewer licensed under M.S. §
340A.301, Subd. 6d on the microbrewery's premises of manufacture.
      CANNABIS BUSINESS. A cannabis microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness,
cannabis cultivator, cannabis manufacturer, dispensary, cannabis wholesaler,
cannabis transporter, cannabis testing facility, cannabis delivery services, or
medical cannabis combination business licensed, or any use otherwise
authorized, under M.S. Chapter 342.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A use involving the licensed growing and harvesting
of cannabis.
      CANNABIS OR HEMP MANUFACTURING. An establishment or use of land which
involves the compounding, processing, packaging, wholesaling, testing,
treatment, transportation, or delivery of cannabis or hemp products.
      CANNABIS RETAIL. A licensed establishment where cannabis flowers,
immature cannabis plants and seedlings, and related products as allowed by law
are sold to individual consumers who are at least 21 years of age.
      CEMETERY. Land used or intended to be used for the burial of the animal
or human dead and dedicated for cemetery purposes, including crematories,
mausoleums, columbaria, chapels, and mortuaries if operated in connection with
and within the boundaries of such cemetery.
      CLINIC. A facility used primarily for the provision of outpatient
medical, dental, chiropractic, therapeutic, optometric or mental health care
and treatment.
      COMMERCIAL CENTER. Commercial sites that consist of primarily retail
establishments with two or more separate businesses managed as a total entity
and sharing common access, circulation, and pedestrian and parking areas so
that a public right-of-way does not need to be used to get from one business to
another.
      COMMERCIAL RECREATION - OUTDOOR. Land or outdoor facilities operated as a
business and which are open to the general public for a fee that shall include,
but is not limited to, golf courses, outdoor swimming pools, amusement parks,
and other similar businesses. Such facility may also provide a snack bar,
restaurant, retail sales of related items, and other support facilities.
      COMMUNICATION DEVICE. Any satellite dish, amateur radio tower, or ground-
mounted satellite vertical antenna that is used in whole or in part for the
collection, communication, transmission, or receiving of telecommunications
signals.
      CONSTRUCTION-RELATED TEMPORARY USE. A temporary use or structure related
to construction activities on the same site. This use may consist of model
homes, construction-related trailers, mobile structures used for construction
offices and storage, batch plans, and temporary offices to replace permanent
facilities being reconstructed.
      CONTINUING CARE SENIOR FACILITY. A residential facility or complex which
provides a variety of senior living choices, from independent living to long-
term care, with a goal of helping residents to age in place.
      DAY CARE.
         (a)   DAY-CARE CENTER. A state-licensed facility other than a private
residence that provides for the care of children during only part of a 24-hour
day and licensed under Minnesota Rules 9502.
         (b)   FAMILY DAY CARE. Day care for no more than ten children at one
time of which no more than six are under school age which is licensed under
Minnesota Rules 9502. The licensed capacity must include all children of any
caregiver when the children are present in the residence.
         (c)   GROUP FAMILY DAY CARE. Day care for no more than 14 children at
any one time within a residence which is licensed under Minnesota Rules 9502.
The total number of children includes all children of any caregiver when the
children are present in the residence.
      DRIVE-THROUGH ESTABLISHMENT. An accessory use, structure, or portion of a
principal structure where patrons may purchase products or receive service
without having to leave their motor vehicle (and enter a building). Pick-up
windows are included in this use.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
residential occupancy. This does not include hotels, motels, seasonal cabins,
or trailers.
      DWELLING, APARTMENT. A residential structure consisting of five or more
dwelling units designed exclusively for use by five or more households living
independently of each other, but sharing hallways and main entrances and exits.
      DWELLING, APARTMENT MIXED USE. A building designed for one or more
dwelling units as well as non-residential uses that are permitted in the zoning
district to be located on the ground story, with all dwelling units sharing a
joint entrance from the outside.
      DWELLING, ATTACHED TOWNHOUSE OR ROWHOUSE. A single residential unit which
is located within a larger residential structure containing three or more units
and which is separated from the adjoining dwelling unit(s) by at least one
common wall. Each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual entrances.
      DWELLING, DUPLEX. A residential structure designed for or occupied by two
households only, with both units on one lot.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT DETACHED. A site-built or factory-built residential
structure designed exclusively for occupancy by one household. This definition
includes manufactured homes located outside of a manufactured home park.
      DWELLING, THREE- TO FOUR-UNIT. A single residential structure on a single
lot which is designed for the occupancy of three or four households living
independently of one another; the units may share a common entrance or have
individual entrances.
      DWELLING, TWINHOME. A residential structure designed to house a single
household on a single lot which is attached by a common wall or walls to an
adjoining dwelling unit.
      DWELLING UNIT. A single unit within a residential building or portion
thereof providing complete, independent living facilities for one family or
group of single adults for living or sleeping purposes, and having one kitchen.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration, or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of
underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
distribution systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduit tables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants,
street signs, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare.
      FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL. A lot or building or combination of lots and
buildings intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of
animals and specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may
accumulate, or where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative
cover cannot be maintained within the enclosure. Pastures shall not be
considered animal feedlots under these rules. Fish farms [aquaculture] shall be
considered feedlots for the purposes of this section.
      FUNERAL HOME, MORTUARY. A building or part thereof used for human funeral
services. Such building may contain space and facilities for:
         (a)   Embalming and the performance of other services used in
preparation of the dead for burial;
         (b)   The performance of autopsies and other surgical procedures;
         (c)   The storage of caskets, urns, and other related funeral
supplies;
         (d)   The storage of funeral vehicles;
         (e)   Facilities for cremation; and
         (f)   A funeral chapel or other area used for the performance of
funeral ceremonies, mourning, and viewing of the deceased.
      GOVERNMENT ADMINISTRATIVE OR SERVICE USE. A structure or structures in
which municipal, county, state, or federal administrative offices are located
or services are provided, including but not limited to city hall, post offices,
libraries, or museums. Any area of land, water, or any building in which social
and cultural events, amusement, recreation, or athletic sports are provided for
public and semi-public use is included within this definition.
      HOME EXTENDED BUSINESS. A home occupation located on the homestead
property of the business operator which allows for limited business activity
within a detached accessory structure.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation, profession, or activity engaged in by
the occupants of the residential dwelling which is clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the premises and does not change the
character of the premises. An occupation, profession, or activity shall not be
considered a home occupation if the resident is performing administrative,
clerical, or research work in their home for a licensed entity located
elsewhere. A family child care provider or a group family child care provider
shall also not be considered a home occupation.
      HOME OCCUPATION, SPECIAL. A home occupation conducted by the occupants of
the residential dwelling that involves frequent clientele visits.
      HOSPITAL. An establishment providing physical or mental health services,
inpatient or overnight accommodations, and medical or surgical care of the sick
or injured.
      HOTEL or MOTEL. A building containing guest rooms in which lodging is
provided and offered to the public on a temporary basis for compensation, and
which is open to transient guests.
      LABORATORY, RESEARCH, AND/OR DEVELOPMENT FACILITY. A facility involved in
scientific research, investigation, testing, or experimentation, but not
including manufacture or sale of products, except as incidental to the main
purpose of the laboratory.
      LONG-TERM CARE FACILITY. A facility that provides meals, lodging, and
nursing care to two or more individuals due to illness, age, or infirmity.
Long-term care facilities include skilled nursing facilities such as nursing
homes, rest homes, boarding care homes, convalescent care, and other
transitional care facilities.
      LOWER POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAIL. A licensed establishment where lower-
potency hemp edible products are sold to individual consumers who are at least
21 years of age.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which in the traveling mode is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet
or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling
with or without permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities,
and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein, except that the term includes any structure which meets all
the requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily led a
certification required by the Secretary of the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development and which complies with the standards established
under this chapter.
      MANUFACTURED HOME – RELATIVE/EMPLOYEE. A manufactured home which is
accessory to a farmstead, provided that the home is occupied by the property
owner, a blood relative, or an employee working on the premises.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. An approved manufactured home park which has
underground utility service to each site and only permits independent
manufactured homes.
      MANUFACTURING. Any use which includes the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of products and materials, provided such uses
do not generate offensive odors, glare, smoke, dust, noise, vibrations, or
other objectionable influence.
      MICROBREWERY. A facility that is operated by the holder of a brewer's
license issued under M.S. § 340A.301 and manufacturers and distributes
intoxicating malt liquor or wine in a total quantity not to exceed 250,000
barrels a year.
      MINING AND EXTRACTING. The excavation or extraction of any metallic or
nonmetallic minerals or earth materials.
      NON-COMMERCIAL GREENHOUSE. A private building or structure constructed
chiefly of glass, glasslike or translucent material which is devoted to the
protection or cultivation of fl owers or other tender plants.
      NURSERY, GREENHOUSE, OR TREE FARM, RETAIL. An establishment for the
growth, display, and retail sales of trees, shrubs, flowers, and other plants
conducted within or without an enclosed building.
      NURSERY OR GREENHOUSE, WHOLESALE. An accessory business whose primary
activity is the wholesale selling of plants grown on the site and having
outside storage, growing, or display.
      OFF-SITE SERVICE BUSINESS. A company that provides labor, maintenance,
repair and activities incidental to business production or distribution where
the service is provided at the customer's location, including delivery
services, catering services, plumbing and sewer service and other uses of
similar character.
      OFF-STREET PARKING OR LOADING FACILITY. A land surface or facility
providing off-street vehicular parking spaces with drives and maneuvering lanes
so as to provide access for entrance and exit. Parking facilities may include
public garages, parking ramps, surface parking lots, and other similar uses.
      OPEN AND OUTDOOR STORAGE. The storage of personal or business property
for a period greater than 24 hours outside of an enclosed building. Currently
licensed and operable vehicles parked in required off-street parking spaces
shall not be viewed as exterior storage.
      OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purposes of
buying, selling, and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior
to sale.
      OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT. A grouping of residential lots on smaller lots in
order to use the extra land as open space or recreation in perpetuity.
      OUTDOOR DINING. A specified outdoor area for dining which is accessory to
a principal restaurant or food service establishment use.
      OUTDOOR TEMPORARY SEASONAL SALES. A short-term display and/or sale of
seasonal products such as the following: Christmas trees, nursery products and
horticulture products (fruits, vegetables, flowers, shrubs and the like).
      PARK OR PLAYGROUND. An area of land and its related accessory structures
developed and maintained for both active and passive recreational pursuits,
including tot-lots, playgrounds, neighborhood parks, play fields and special
purpose areas.
      PARKING FACILITY. A land surface or facility providing off-street
vehicular parking spaces with drives and maneuvering lanes so as to provide
access for entrance and exit. Parking facilities may include public garages,
parking ramps, surface parking lots, and other similar uses.
      PAWN SHOP. A commercial business that loans money on the security of
pledges of personal property, or deposits and conditional sales of personal
property, or the purchase or sale of personal property.
      PET STORE. A retail sales establishment primarily involved in the sale of
domestic animals, such as dogs, cats, fish, birds, and reptiles, excluding
exotic animals and farm animals such as horses, goats, sheep, and poultry.
      PLACE OF WORSHIP. Building(s) or structure(s) which by design,
construction, and/or adaptation are primarily intended for the conducting of
organized religious services and associated accessory uses.
      PRE SCHOOL. A public or private institution, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, for the organized instruction of pupils who have not
reached the age for enrollment in kindergarten.
      PRODUCE STAND. A stand, booth, stall, or similar structure from which
agricultural products raised on the property are sold.
      PROFESSIONAL OFFICE/SERVICES. An establishment used primarily for
conducting the predominantly administrative or clerical service affairs of a
business, profession, service, industry or government, or like activity. This
use may include ancillary services for office workers, such as a restaurant,
coffee shop, newspaper or candy stand and child care facilities.
      RECREATIONAL AMENITY, PRIVATE. A private area or facility intended to
serve the recreational needs of a specific residential population and their
guests. Private recreational amenities include but are not limited to: tennis
courts, walking trails, basketball courts, and playground equipment.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle or trailer which is used
primarily for recreational purposes, including but not limited to motor homes,
travel trailers, snowmobiles, boats, jet skis, dirt bikes, and ATVs.
      RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY. An in-home residential facility licensed by
the state which provides primarily nonmedical care to individuals who are in
need of personal assistance to manage the activities of daily life or for the
protection of the individual.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment, where food and drink are prepared and
served for human consumption, principally within the establishment or for take-
out to be consumed off-premises.
      RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE, STANDALONE STORE. A detached structure where
goods or services are sold.
      SCHOOL. A public or private institution, together with its accessory
buildings and uses, for learning with either a kindergarten, elementary or
secondary curriculum with buildings, equipment, courses of study, class
schedules, enrollment of pupils and staff meeting the standards established by
the state. Examples of accessory uses for a school include, but are not limited
to gymnasiums, swimming pools, auditoriums, and offices in support of the
school use.
      SEASONAL STORAGE. Indoor storage of personal recreational items or
equipment in any agricultural building(s) where more than 25% of the building
is used at any time for the purpose of renting or leasing indoor storage space,
and is open to the public on a limited seasonal basis.
      SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A structure or structures containing separate
storage spaces of varying sizes, which are leased or rented individually. An
office, for rental and operations of the units, may be attached to such
structures.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A device or structural design feature, a substantial
purpose of which is to provide for the collection, storage and distribution of
solar energy for space heating or cooling, electricity generating, or water
heating.
         (a)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, BUILDING INTEGRATED. A solar energy system
that is an integral part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a
separate mechanical device, replacing or substituting for an architectural or
structural component of the building, examples of which are roofing materials,
windows, skylights, and awnings.
         (b)   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED. A freestanding solar system
mounted directly to the ground using a rack or pole rather than being mounted
on a building.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any pool, tank, depression or excavation in or above-
ground, or other structure which shall cause or has the capacity to retain
water with a depth greater than 30 inches which shall be designed for the
intent to be used for swimming, wading, or immersion purposes by individuals.
      TAPROOM. A room that is located on the premises or adjacent to one
microbrewery location owned by a licensed microbrewery intended for the on-sale
of malt liquor produced on site by the brewer as authorized by M.S. § 340A.301,
Subd. 6b.
      TOWERS AND WIRELESS FACILITY. Any tower or wireless facility designed and
constructed primarily for the purpose of wireless communication, transmission,
and distribution.
      UTILITY BUILDING. An incidental structure on the same lot with a
principal building ordinarily used for storage of lawn, garden, recreational,
and maintenance equipment and no larger than 120 square feet in size.
      VEHICLE FUEL, SERVICE, OR WASH. Any building, land area or other
premises, or portion thereof, used or intended to be used for the retail
dispensing or sales of vehicular fuels, vehicle servicing, or cleaning,
washing, polishing, or waxing of motor vehicles. This use does not include
repair work.
      VEHICLE SALES AND RENTAL. Any land or buildings, other than a street,
used for the display, sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers
in operable condition.
      VETERINARY CLINIC. A clinic operated by a licensed veterinarian
exclusively for the diagnosis, treatment, correction, relief, or prevention of
animal disease, deformity, defect, injury, or other physical or mental
conditions; the performance of obstetrical procedures for animals, including
determination of pregnancy and correction of sterility or infertility; and the
rendering of advice or recommendations with regard to any of the above. The
facility may also provide boarding for animals as part of medical services.
      WAREHOUSING. The indoor storage of materials, equipment or products.
Warehousing does not include self-storage facilities which are defined
separately.
      WHOLESALE SHOWROOM. The display of merchandise and sales incidental to
and accessory to the principal showroom use to retailers, industrial,
commercial, institutional, or professional business users, or to other
wholesalers.
      WHOLESALE TRADE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment primarily engaged in
selling merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional or
professional business users; to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, individuals or
companies.
      WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An electrical generating facility
comprised of one wind turbine and accessory facilities that operate by
converting the kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy. The energy may be
used on-site or distributed into the electrical grid.
         (a)   BLADE ARC. The arc created by the edge of the rotor blade that
is farthest from the center.
         (b)   FALL ZONE. The area defined as the furthest distance from the
WECS tower base in which a guyed tower will collapse in the event of a
structural failure.
         (c)   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the
moving rotor blades.
         (d)   TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point, above ground level, reached by
a rotor tip or any other part of the WECS.
         (e)   TOWER. A tower includes a vertical structure that supports the
electrical generator or rotor blades of the WECS.
         (f)   TOWER HEIGHT. The total height of the WECS exclusive of the
rotor blades.
         (g)   TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that
converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy through the
use of airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
   (D)   Floodplain Overlay District definitions.
      BASE FLOOD. The flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year. BASE FLOOD is synonymous with the term REGIONAL
FLOOD used in Minnesota Rules, part 6120.5000.
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood, regional
flood, or one-percent annual chance flood. The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is
used in the flood insurance study.
      CRITICAL FACILITIES. Buildings and structures that contain essential
facilities and services necessary for emergency response and recovery, or that
pose a substantial risk to the public in the event of failure, disruption of
function, or damage by flooding. Specifically, this includes facilities
identified as Flood Design Class 4 in ASCE 24-14, Flood Resistant Design and
Construction, as amended. Examples include health care facilities, facilities
required for emergency response, power generating stations, communications
towers, or electrical substations.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of
equipment or materials.
      FEMA. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall, or gate erected as a dividing
marker, barrier, or enclosure.
         (a)   BOUNDARY LINE FENCE. A fence located within five feet of a
property line.
         (b)   INTERIOR YARD FENCE. A fence located five feet beyond a property
line.
         (c)   FARM FENCE. An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run
wire, further specified in M.S. § 344.02, Subd. 1(a-d).
      FLOOD. A temporary rise in the stream fl ow or water surface elevation
from any source that results in the inundation of normally dry land areas.
      FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the one-percent annual chance floodplain
located outside of the floodway. This district shall be extended laterally to
the 0.2-percent annual chance.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The study referenced in §
155.054(B)(2), which is an examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards, and if appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
      FLOOD PLAIN. The beds, channel and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse, or other source which have been or hereafter may be inundated by
the base flood.
      FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding,
primarily for the reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which must be reserved to carry
or store the base flood discharge without cumulatively increasing the water
surface elevation more than one-half foot.
      GENERAL FLOODPLAIN. Those floodplains designated on the Flood Insurance
Rate Maps referenced in §
155.054(B)(2), but that do not have a delineated floodway.
      LIGHT DUTY TRUCK. Any motor vehicle that has all three of the following:
         (a)   8,500 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less;
§
155.016   St. Michael - Land Usage
         (b)   Vehicle curb weight of 6,000 pounds or less; and
         (c)   Basic vehicle frontal area less than 45 square feet.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation that is one
foot above the elevation of the base flood plus any increases in the water
surface elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway. These increases in water surface elevations are
typically identified in the Floodway Data Tables, found in the Flood Insurance
Study.
      REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on two
separate occasions during a ten year period for which the cost of repairs at
the time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      STAGE INCREASE. Any increase in the water surface elevation during the
one-percent annual chance flood caused by encroachments on the floodplain.
      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where
the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal
or exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of
the market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage," regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a "historic structure," provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure." For the purpose of the Floodplain Overlay District
ordinance, "historic structure" is defined in 44 CFR § 59.1.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either
continuously or intermittently in a definitive direction. The term applies to
either natural or artificially constructed channels.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
GENERAL ZONING
§ 155.021 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following classifications are hereby established within the city:
      (1)   Residential Districts:
         (a)   RR, Rural Residential District;
         (b)   R-1, Single-Unit Traditional Residential District;
         (c)   R-1a, Single-Unit Flexible Residential District;
         (d)   R-2, Single-Unit Large Lot Residential District;
         (e)   R-3, Mixed Residential District; and
         (f)   R-4, Attached Residential District.
      (2)   Non-Residential Districts:
         (a)   B-1, General Business District;
         (b)   B-2, Central Business District;
         (c)   B-3, Business/Office Park District;
         (d)   I-1, General Industrial District;
         (e)   PI, Public/Institutional District;
         (f)   A-1, General Agricultural District; and
         (g)   AP, Agricultural Preservation District.
      (3)   Special or Overlay Districts:
         (a)   PUD, Planned Unit Development;
         (b)   W, Wetland Overlay District;
         (c)   S, Shoreland Overlay District; and
         (d)   FP, Floodplain Overlay District.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.022 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are hereby set forth on the Zoning Map entitled "City of St. Michael
Official Zoning Map."
   (B)   The Zoning Map shall remain on file with the Zoning Administrator, and
hereinafter be referred to as the "Zoning Map," which map and all of the
notations, references, and other information shown thereon shall have the same
force and effect as if fully set forth herein and thereby made a part of this
chapter by reference.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.023 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Zoning district boundary lines of this chapter follow lot lines,
railroad right-of-way lines, the center of watercourses, or the corporate limit
lines, all as they exist upon the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of any questions as to the interpretation of such boundary
lines, the Zoning Administrator shall interpret the map according to the
reasonable intent of this chapter.
   (C)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts shown on
the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply:
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed to follow such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city boundaries
shall be construed to follow municipal boundaries.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines and, in the event of a change in the shoreline, shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline; boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerline of streams, rivers, canals, lakes, or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in the preceding shall be so construed. Distances not specifically
indicated on the Zoning Map shall be the scale of the map.
   (D)   Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning district boundary
line shall be heard by the City Council serving as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals.
   (E)   When any street, alley, or right-of-way is vacated by official action
of the city, the zoning district abutting the center line of the alley or
street public right-of-way shall not be affected by such proceedings.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.024 GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Unplatted land.
      (1)   Residential, public/institutional, commercial, or industrial zoned
property shall be platted in accordance with
Chapter 154 of this code before any such property may be subdivided. The
purpose of this section is to provide for the establishment of building sites
and lots in an orderly manner consistent with the city's comprehensive plan and
surrounding properties and structures.
      (2)   No building permit shall be issued for any of the following
purposes on any property which is unplatted:
         (a)   Erection of a new home in the RR, R-1, R-1a, R-2, R-3, and R-
4 zoning districts.
         (b)   Erection of any structure in all public/institutional,
commercial, and industrial zoning districts;
         (c)   Erection of any structure for a public/institutional use that is
listed as a conditional use in §
155.043 in the A-1, Agricultural Zoning District.
   (B)   Principal structures per lot. Only one principal structure shall be
located, erected, or moved onto a lot, except that more than one principal
structure shall be allowed on a lot in planned unit developments as provided
for in §§
155.051 et seq.
   (C)   Dwelling unit use and interpretation.
      (1)   No cellar, basement, garage, tent, accessory building, or temporary
family health care dwelling shall at any time be used as an independent
residence or dwelling unit, temporarily or permanently. Pursuant to authority
granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the City of St. Michael opts-out of the
requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary family
health care dwellings.
      (2)   Basements may be used as living quarters or rooms as a portion of
residential dwellings.
      (3)   Earth-sheltered housing shall not be considered as a basement or
cellar.
      (4)   Tents, playhouses, or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
      (5)   Recreational vehicles may not be occupied or used for living,
sleeping or housekeeping purposes, for more than 14 days per calendar year on
any given property.
   (D)   Lots of record.
      (1)   A lot of record existing upon the effective date of this chapter in
a residential district which does not meet the requirements of this chapter as
to area or width may be utilized for single-unit detached dwelling purposes
provided that:
         (a)   Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous
frontage with other lots in the same ownership;
         (b)   The measurements of such area and width are within 70% of the
requirements of this chapter; and
         (c)   Setbacks and yard requirements shall be in conformance with this
chapter.
      (2)   Lots of record within the Shoreland Overlay District shall follow
the requirements of M.S. § 462.357.
   (E)   Frontage of through lots. On a through lot, both street property lines
shall be front lot lines for applying the yard and parking regulations of this
chapter.
   (F)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   No lot, required yard, or other open space shall be reduced in area
or dimension so as to make such lot, yard, or open space less than the minimum
required by this chapter.
      (2)   If the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced.
      (3)   No required open space provided about any building or structure
shall be included as part of any open space required for another structure.
   (G)   Yard requirements.
      (1)   Grade elevation. Maximum allowed yard slope shall be 3:1 and the
minimum allowed yard slope shall be 2%.
      (2)   Setbacks. The following shall not be considered as encroachments in
required yard setbacks:
         (a)   Chimneys, flues, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental
features, cornices, eaves, gutters, and the like provided they:
            1.   Do not project more than two feet into a setback;
            2.   Are a minimum distance of five feet from the side property
line; and
            3.   Are not located within an easement.
         (b)   Steps, stoops, or similar features, provided they do not extend
above the height of the ground floor level of the principal structure or to a
distance less than five feet from any lot line or extend into any easement.
         (c)   In front yards.
            1.   A one-story entrance or unenclosed porch for a single-unit
detached dwelling extending no more than eight feet into the front yard
setback, subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
            2.   Ground level patios/platforms provided:
               a.   The patio/platform is no closer than 15 feet from the front
property line and no closer to an interior side lot line than five feet;
               b.   The patio/platform does not encroach into any easement
area; and
               c.   The patio/platform does not have railings, except as
required by ADA regulations.
         (d)   In side yards.
            1.   Ground level patio, air conditioning and/or heating equipment,
and standby or backup electrical power generation unit, provided they are
located a minimum distance of five feet from a side lot line and not within an
easement.
         (e)   In rear yards.
            1.   Decks may be set back 15 feet to a rear property line,
provided they are not within an easement.
            2.   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors, trellises,
balconies, terraces, ground level patio, air conditioning and/or heating
equipment, and standby or backup electrical power generation units, provided
they are a minimum distance of five feet from the rear lot line and not within
an easement.
            3.   Compost structures and firewood piles.
               a.   In all residential districts, compost structures and
firewood piles shall be limited to the rear or side yard and placed no closer
than ten feet to any property line. In the case of a corner lot, compost
structures and firewood piles shall not be placed within the area between the
street right-of-way and the minimum required building side yard setback line;
               b.   Firewood shall be stored in a neat and secure stack; and
               c.   The height of a woodpile shall not exceed six feet, and if
greater than three feet, shall be no more than twice the width of the woodpile.
      (3)   Retaining walls.
         (a)   All retaining walls shall be designed and constructed to meet
the requirements of Minnesota Rules 1309.0404, section R404. Retaining walls
exceeding four feet in height shall require a building permit.
         (b)   Retaining walls shall be located at least five feet from the
property line and not located in a drainage and utility easement, except upon
written approval of the City Engineer.
   (H)   Exceptions to height requirements.
      (1)   The building height limits established herein for zoning districts
shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Belfries;
         (b)   Chimneys;
         (c)   Conveyors, agricultural;
         (d)   Flag poles;
         (e)   Poles and towers for essential services;
         (f)   Silos, agricultural;
         (g)   Smokestacks;
         (h)   Spires; or
         (i)   Water towers.
      (2)   The following elements of non-residential structures may project
ten feet above the main roof line if they occupy 25% or less of the building
footprint:
         (a)   Clerestories;
         (b)   Pedestrian entry features which do not contain usable interior
space;
         (c)   Roof-mounted equipment; including elevator shaft extensions and
roofs, rooftop access stairways and roofs, mechanical equipment for heating,
ventilation, and air conditioning systems, and parapet walls used for screening
of roof- mounted equipment;
         (d)   Stacks; and
         (e)   Vents.
   (I)   Exterior storage.
      (1)   All materials and equipment, except as provided for in §§
155.041 through
155.045, shall be stored within a building, except for the following:
         (a)   Lawn furniture or furniture used and constructed primarily for
outdoor use;
         (b)   Clothesline poles and wires (except in front yards and the
setback portion of the side yard abutting a public street);
         (c)   Not more than two recreational vehicles and equipment as
described in §
155.015;
         (d)   Construction and landscaping materials currently being used on
the premises. These materials must be removed within 30 days of the completion
of construction or issuance of a certificate of occupancy, whichever occurs
first;
         (e)   Dumpsters used only in connection with a construction activity
that has been properly permitted by the city, in which case it may remain no
longer than 180 days in any 12-month period, or the clean-up of property, in
which case it may remain for no longer than 30 consecutive days in any 12-month
period;
         (f)   One portable storage container may be placed on a property for
no longer than 30 consecutive days in any 12-month period. The portable storage
container shall be placed on a paved or hard surface within the property;
         (g)   Storage of firewood as specified in division (G);
         (h)   Off-street parking of currently registered and operable
passenger vehicles and trucks not exceeding a gross capacity of 12,000 pounds
in residential areas;
         (i)   In agricultural districts, agricultural equipment and material,
if they are used or intended for use on the premises; and
         (j)   In non-residential districts, commercial vehicles and mechanical
equipment, such as a tank or an emergency generator, if they are located in the
rear yard and are used or intended for use on the premises.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
RESIDENTIAL BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.031 APPLICATION.
   The restrictions, regulations, standards, and guidelines for land use and
development in this chapter shall apply to the following zoning districts
within the city:
 
RR   Rural Residential District
R-1  Single-Unit Traditional Residential District
R-1a Single-Unit Flexible Residential District
R-2  Single-Unit Large Lot Residential District
R-3  Mixed Residential District
R-4  Attached Residential District
 
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-0-24)
§ 155.032 DISTRICT INTENTS.
   The following statements specify the intents of the zoning districts
established to regulate areas of the city considered appropriate for
residential uses:
   (A)   RR Rural Residential District. The purpose of the RR District is to
provide for detached single-unit residences on acreage lots where there are
abundant natural resources and challenges extending city sewer and water
services. Directly related complementary uses, as well as compatible
nonresidential development such as places of worship and parks, are also
appropriate.
   (B)   R-1 Single-Unit Traditional Residential District. The purpose of the
R-1 District is to provide for detached single-unit residences on lots served
by city sewer and water. A majority of the lots within this district were
created prior to 2010. Directly related complementary uses, as well as
compatible nonresidential development such as places of worship, schools, and
parks, are also appropriate.
   (C)   R-1a Single-Unit Flexible Residential District. The purpose of the R-
1a District is to provide for detached single-unit residences served by city
sewer and water on lots with a more efficient development pattern than that of
the R-1 District while maintaining a similar overall density as R-1. Directly
related complementary uses, as well as compatible nonresidential development
such as places of worship, schools, and parks, are also appropriate.
   (D)   R-2 Single-Unit Large Lot Residential District. The purpose of the R-
2 District is to provide for detached single-unit residences on lots generally
larger than those in the R-1 District. New lots in this district are required
to be served by city sewer and water. Directly related complementary uses, as
well as compatible nonresidential development such as places of worship,
schools, and parks, are also appropriate.
   (E)   R-3 Mixed Residential District. The purpose of the R-3 District is to
provide for a mix of attached medium density housing types including twinhomes,
two to four unit dwellings, and townhouses. Directly related complementary
uses, as well as compatible nonresidential development such as places of
worship, schools, and parks, are also appropriate.
   (F)   R-4 Attached Residential District. The purpose of the R-4 District is
to provide for a mix of higher density attached housing types including
townhouses and apartments. Directly related complementary uses, as well as
compatible nonresidential development such as places of worship, schools, and
parks, are also appropriate.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.033 USES.
   (A)   
Tables 3.1 and
3.2 list land uses and indicate whether they are permitted, permitted with
standards, conditional, interim, or prohibited. The tables also include
references as to whether additional use-specific standards are applicable to
each use.
      (1)   
Table 3.1 organizes all principal uses by use category and use types:
         (a)   Use categories. The use categories are: residential, public
assembly and institutional, commercial, recreation and entertainment,
industrial, agricultural, and utilities.
         (b)   Use types. The specific use types identify the specific uses
that are considered to fall within the use categories. For example, duplexes
and attached townhouses are classified as residential use types.
      (2)   The following definitions shall be referenced when using
Tables 3.1 and
3.2:
         (a)   Permitted use. A "P" indicates that a use is allowed by right,
subject to compliance with all other applicable provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   Permitted with standards use. A "PS" indicates that a use is
allowed when standards identified in §§
155.061 through
155.067 are met. Uses permitted with standards are also subject to all other
applicable provisions of this chapter. Any request to vary from the standards
set forth for a permitted with standards use shall be processed as a variance.
         (c)   Conditional use. A "C" indicates that a use is allowed only if a
Conditional Use Permit is issued by the city after compliance with the
procedure and requirements set forth in §
155.094. Conditional uses are also subject to all other applicable provisions
of this chapter.
         (d)   Interim use. An "I" indicates that a use may be allowed for a
limited period of time if an interim use permit is issued by the city after
compliance with the procedure and requirements set forth in §
155.095. Interim uses are also subject to all other applicable provisions of
this chapter.
         (e)   Prohibited use. A blank cell in the use table indicates that the
land use is prohibited in that zoning district.
   (B)   In the event a proposed use is not listed in the use table, the Zoning
Administrator is authorized to classify the proposed use into an existing use
type, as set forth in
Table 3.1 below or in Table 4.1 in §
155.041 et seq.,that the Zoning Administrator determines most closely fits the
proposed use.
      (1)   If found to be consistent with a listed use, the proposed use shall
be treated the same as the listed use.
      (2)   If no similar use determination is made by the Zoning
Administrator, the proposed use is prohibited. In such case, an interested
party may appeal the decision or apply for an amendment to this chapter in
accordance with the procedure and requirements set forth in §
155.097.
Table 3.1 Principal Uses Table – Residential Districts
Uses RR R-1, R-1a R-2 R-3 R-4 Use-Specific Standards
Uses                            RR R-1, R-1a R-2 R-3 R-4 Use-Specific Standards
RESIDENTIAL
Family Living
Dwelling, single-unit detached  PS PS        PS  PS     See §
                                                         155.061
Dwelling, twinhome                            PS     See §
                                                         155.061
Dwelling, duplex                              P       
Dwelling, three- to four-unit                 P       
Dwelling, attached townhouse or               PS  PS  See §
rowhouse                                                 155.061
Dwelling, apartment                              P    
Manufactured home park                        C   C   See §
                                                         155.061
Open space development          C                    See §
                                                         155.061
Group Living
Assisted living facility                      C   C   See §
                                                         155.061
Long-term or transitional care                C   C   See §
facility                                                 155.061
Continuing care senior facility               P   P    
Residential care facility, six  P  P         P   P       
or fewer persons
Residential care facility,                    P   P    
seven to 16 persons
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AND INSTITUTIONAL
Adult education and training      C         C         See §
facility                                                 155.062
Cemetery                          C         C   C   C   See §
                                                         155.062
Day care center, 250 or fewer   PS PS        PS  PS  PS  See §
children                                                 155.062
Government administrative or    C  C         C   C   C   See §
service use                                              155.062
Park or playground              P  P         P   P   P    
Place of worship - 250 or less  C  C         C   C   C   See §
persons in assembly area                                 155.062(E)
Place of worship - greater than C  C         C   C   C   See §
250 persons in assembly area                             155.062(E)
Pre school - licensed for 250     C         C   C   C    
or fewer persons
Pre school - licensed for         C         C   C   C   See §
greater than 250 persons                                 155.062
School                            C         C   C   C    
COMMERCIAL
Commercial recreation - outdoor   P         P   P   P    
AGRICULTURE
Retail nursery, greenhouse, or    C         C          
tree farm
UTILITIES
Essential services              P  P         P   P   P    
Towers and wireless facility      C         C   C   C   See
                                                         Chapter 153
 
   Table 3.2 Accessory Uses Table
Uses RR R-1, R-1a R-2 R-3 R-4 Use-Specific Standards
Uses                          RR R-1, R-1a R-2 R-3 R-4 Use-Specific Standards
Accessory structure           PS PS        PS  PS  PS  See §
                                                       155.067
Communication device          PS PS        PS  PS  PS  See §
                                                       155.067
Daycare, family               P  P         P          
Daycare, group family         P  P         P          
Home occupation               PS PS        PS  PS  PS  See §
                                                       155.067
Home occupation - special     I  I         I   I   I   See §
                                                       155.067
Keeping of animals            PS PS        PS  PS  PS  See §
                                                       155.067
Non-commercial greenhouse     P  P         P          
Nursery or greenhouse (retail C  C                  See §
or wholesale)                                          155.067
Recreational facilities (i.e.
pools, tennis court) -        P  P         P   P   P    
resident/guest use
Solar energy system           PS PS        PS  PS  PS  See §
                                                       155.067
Storage of recreational       P  P         P         See §
vehicles and equipment                                 155.067
Swimming pool, residential    PS PS        PS  PS  PS   
Utility building              C  C         C   C   C    
 
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.034 LOT, SITE, AND BUILDING DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   All uses in Tables 3.1 and 3.2 shall comply with the lot, site, and
building requirements set forth in the following tables and all other
applicable regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   All lot, site, and building dimension standards listed in this section
are subject to the exemptions listed in §
155.024.
   Table 3.3 Residential Lot Dimensional Standards
              Minimum Setbacks (feet)                 Maximum Impervious
District Uses Front Side Rear         Maximum Height2 Coverage
                        Minimum Setbacks (feet)                      Maximum
District Uses                                       Maximum Height2  Impervious
                        Front Side             Rear                  Coverage

                                                    2-1/2 stories or
RR       All uses       301   10               30   35 feet,         25%
                                                    whichever is
                                                    less
         Dwelling,
         single- unit   25    7.5              30   2-1/2 stories or
         detached                                   35 feet,
R-1a                                                whichever is     50%
         All other uses 30    30               30   less


         Dwelling,            7.5 garage
         single- unit   301   10 living space  30   2-1/2 stories or
         detached                                   35 feet,
R-13                                                whichever is     50%
         All other uses 30    30               30   less


         Dwelling,            7.5 garage
         single- unit   301   10 living space  30   2-1/2 stories or
         detached                                   35 feet,
R-23                                                whichever is     50%
         All other uses 30    30               30   less


                                                    2-1/2 stories or
         Residential    30    7.5 garage       30   35 feet,
         uses                 10 living space4      whichever is
R-3                                                 less             50%
                                                    2-1/2 stories or
         All other uses 30    304              30   35 feet,
                                                    whichever is
                                                    less
         Dwelling,                                  2-1/2 stories or
         attached       30    7.5 garage       30   35 feet,
         townhouse or         10 living space4      whichever is
         rowhouse                                   less
         Dwelling,                                  3 stories or 40
R-4      apartment      30    104              30   feet, whichever  50%
                                                    is less
                                                    2-1/2 stories or
         All other uses 30    304              30   35 feet,
                                                    whichever is
                                                    less
Notes:
1   Cul-de-sac lots shall be allowed a front yard setback of 25 feet for the
portion of the lot fronting on the outside curve of the cul-de-sac if:
   (a)   The right-of-way has a minimum radius of 55 feet; and
   (b)   The boulevard (the street right-of-way area between the edge of the
curb/pavement and the front property line) is a minimum of 12 feet in width.
2   Maximum height may be increased with approval of CUP.
3   Lots platted prior to February 23, 1999 shall be allowed a rear yard
setback of 15 feet if the depth of the parcel at the building pad is less than
110 feet.
4   Minimum side yard setback is 30' when abutting public street or single-
family residential district. Side yard setback not applicable where a structure
has shared walls as in the case of twinhomes or townhomes.
 
   Table 3.4 Residential Site Dimensional Table
              Minimum Setbacks (feet)                 Maximum Impervious
District Uses Front Side Rear         Maximum Height2 Coverage
                        Minimum Setbacks (feet)                      Maximum
District Uses                                       Maximum Height2  Impervious
                        Front Side             Rear                  Coverage

                                                    2-1/2 stories or
RR       All uses       301   10               30   35 feet,         25%
                                                    whichever is
                                                    less
         Dwelling,
         single- unit   25    7.5              30   2-1/2 stories or
         detached                                   35 feet,
R-1a                                                whichever is     50%
         All other uses 30    30               30   less


         Dwelling,            7.5 garage
         single- unit   301   10 living space  30   2-1/2 stories or
         detached                                   35 feet,
R-13                                                whichever is     50%
         All other uses 30    30               30   less


         Dwelling,            7.5 garage
         single- unit   301   10 living space  30   2-1/2 stories or
         detached                                   35 feet,
R-23                                                whichever is     50%
         All other uses 30    30               30   less


                                                    2-1/2 stories or
         Residential    30    7.5 garage       30   35 feet,
         uses                 10 living space4      whichever is
R-3                                                 less             50%
                                                    2-1/2 stories or
         All other uses 30    304              30   35 feet,
                                                    whichever is
                                                    less
         Dwelling,                                  2-1/2 stories or
         attached       30    7.5 garage       30   35 feet,
         townhouse or         10 living space4      whichever is
         rowhouse                                   less
         Dwelling,                                  3 stories or 40
R-4      apartment      30    104              30   feet, whichever  50%
                                                    is less
                                                    2-1/2 stories or
         All other uses 30    304              30   35 feet,
                                                    whichever is
                                                    less
Notes:
1   Cul-de-sac lots shall be allowed a front yard setback of 25 feet for the
portion of the lot fronting on the outside curve of the cul-de-sac if:
   (a)   The right-of-way has a minimum radius of 55 feet; and
   (b)   The boulevard (the street right-of-way area between the edge of the
curb/pavement and the front property line) is a minimum of 12 feet in width.
2   Maximum height may be increased with approval of CUP.
3   Lots platted prior to February 23, 1999 shall be allowed a rear yard
setback of 15 feet if the depth of the parcel at the building pad is less than
110 feet.
4   Minimum side yard setback is 30' when abutting public street or single-
family residential district. Side yard setback not applicable where a structure
has shared walls as in the case of twinhomes or townhomes.
 
   (C)   Residential roadway buffer.
      (1)   A 30-foot-wide landscaped buffer as shown in Figure 3.1 shall be
provided along any residential property line which abuts a collector or
arterial roadway as identified in the comprehensive plan. The buffer shall not
include ponding, drainage swales, or any utilities unless otherwise approved by
the city, such as if it is required for emergency overflow.
      (2)   The purpose of this buffer is to ensure that the rear and side yard
of any residential lot is screened from the view of any collector or arterial
street. It is not the intent of these regulations to provide uniform linear
strips of completely opaque screening but to provide an attractive view of
residential neighborhoods from major streets and ensure adequate buffering for
the residential neighborhood from the street.
      (3)   This buffer shall contain a mixture of plants that will provide a
visual screen. For every 100 linear feet, this mixture shall include at a
minimum:
         (a)   Six coniferous or overstory trees;
         (b)   Six understory trees; and
         (c)   Sixteen shrubs.
      (4)   When existing woodland is located within the buffer area,
preservation of that woodland will be allowed to substitute for the required
plant materials only in the location of the woodland, provided that the
woodland meets the intent of the buffer in division (2) above.
   Figure 3.1 Landscaped Buffer - Residential
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2164.png]
      (5)   This buffer shall be maintained by the development's Homeowners
Association (HOA) where one exists. If an HOA does not exist, then the
maintenance of the buffer shall be the responsibility of the property owner.
   (D)   Minimum dwelling unit size.
      (1)   RR, R-1, R-2 districts: 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   R-1a District: 850 square feet;
      (3)   R-3 and R-4 districts:
         (a)   Townhomes shall be no smaller than 850 square feet;
         (b)   For apartments, minimum size is as follows:
            1.   Efficiency unit: 525 square feet;
            2.   One bedroom unit: 600 square feet; and
            3.   Two bedroom unit: 720 square feet.
   (E)   In the R-3 and R-4 districts, the minimum usable open space provided
per dwelling unit shall be 500 square feet.
   (F)   In the R-1, R-1a, and R-2 districts, the maximum amount of impervious
surface coverage allowed within the front yard of any lot shall be as follows:
      (1)   For lots 80 feet wide or greater, no more than 40% impervious
surface coverage.
      (2)   For lots less than 80 feet wide, no more than 50% impervious
surface coverage.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.035 DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Connection to public sewer and water is required for:
      (1)   All properties in the R-1a, R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 districts.
      (2)   All non-residential uses requiring wastewater disposal in the RR
District.
      (3)   Any non-residential or non-agricultural use requiring wastewater
disposal in the A-1 District.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
NON-RESIDENTIAL BASE ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.041 APPLICATION.
   The restrictions, regulations, standards, and guidelines for land use and
development in this chapter shall apply to the following zoning districts
within the city:
 
B-1 General Business District
B-2 Central Business District
B-3 Business/Office Park District
I-1 Industrial District
PI  Public/Institutional District
A-1 General Agriculture District
AP  Agricultural Preservation District
 
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.042 DISTRICT INTENTS.
   The following statements specify the intents of the zoning districts
established to regulate areas of the city considered appropriate for
residential uses:
   (A)   B-1 General Business District. The purpose of the B-1 District is to
provide appropriately located lands for the full range of business, office, and
retail uses needed by the region's residents, businesses, and workers; to
strengthen the city's economic base and provide employment opportunities close
to home for residents; and to offer opportunities for various types of
assemblies with careful consideration of access, tra c, and parking.
   (B)   B-2 Downtown Commercial District. The purpose of the B-2 District is
to provide for downtown business development, including establishment of
commercial and service activities which draw from and serve customers from the
entire community, while enhancing the overall character of the community in a
manner consistent with the goals and objectives of the Downtown Plan. Also, to
provide multi-family dwellings which can easily access the employment and
support uses found in the downtown area.
   (C)   B-3 Business/Office Park District. The purpose of the B-3 District is
to provide for employment and strengthen the city's economic base with multi-
use building and/or the establishment of business offices, wholesale showrooms,
manufacturing, and related uses which are compatible with and complement each
other as well as the surrounding land uses. It is the intent of this District
that development will provide a high level of quality and consistency in
architecture, landscaping, lighting, and other site features with limited
outdoor storage. It is also the intent to allow development of light industrial
uses which generate a high number of jobs per square foot rather than
predominantly warehouse type uses, and are clean, quiet, and free of hazardous
or objectionable elements such as noise, odor, dust, smoke, glare, or other
pollutants; and to allow smaller types of assemblies in a manner that will not
negatively impact other uses in the district.
   (D)   I-1 General Industrial District. The purpose of the I-1 District is to
strengthen the city's economic base and provide employment opportunities close
to home for residents by providing areas suitable for the location of general
industrial activities which have adequate and convenient access to major
streets, and provide effective controls for "nuisance" characteristics; and to
allow smaller types of assemblies in a manner that will not negatively impact
other uses in the district.
   (E)   PI Public/Institutional District. The purpose of the PI District is
to:
      (1)   Establish areas where both public and private institutional uses
may be located to serve the health, safety, educational, and cultural needs of
the city.
      (2)   Protect and provide for attractive and well-designed sites for
public and institutional buildings in an environment characterized by
controlled ingress and egress to streets and providing the screening and
landscaping necessary to create a proper relationship with adjacent uses.
   (F)   A-1 General Agricultural District. The purpose of the A-1 District is
to preserve the use of the land for long-term agricultural uses; to protect
such areas from encroachment by nonagricultural uses, structures, or activities
that would require the premature extensions of urban public facilities; and to
protect and maintain the open space for the creation of an attractive living
environment. Subdivisions are allowed at a density of one dwelling unit per 40
acres. There will be no urban services provided to this district.
   (G)   AP Agricultural Preservation District. The purpose of the AP District
is to assist in the preservation of commercial agricultural uses consistent
with the goals of M.S. Chapter 40A (Agricultural Land Preservation Program), as
it may be amended from time to time, and the city comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.043 USES.
   (A)   
Tables 4.1 and 4.2 list land uses and indicates whether they are permitted,
permitted with standards, conditional, interim, or prohibited. The table also
includes references to whether additional use-speci c standards are applicable
to each use.
      (1)   
Table 4.1 organizes all principal uses by use category and use types:
         (a)   Use categories. The use categories are: residential, public
assembly and institutional, commercial, recreation and entertainment,
industrial, agricultural, and utilities.
         (b)   Use types. The specific use types identify the specific uses
that are considered to fall within the use categories. For example, restaurants
and retail sales and service are classified as commercial use types.
      (2)   The following definitions shall be referenced when using
Tables 4.1 and 4.2:
         (a)   Permitted use. A "P" indicates that a use is allowed by right,
subject to compliance with all other applicable provisions of this code.
         (b)   Permitted with standards use. A "PS" indicates that a use is
allowed when standards identified in §§
155.061 through
155.067 are met. Uses permitted with standards are also subject to all other
applicable requirements of this chapter. Any request to vary from the standards
set forth for a permitted with standards use shall be processed as a variance.
         (c)   Conditional use. A "C" indicates that a use is allowed only if a
conditional use permit is issued by the city after compliance with the
procedure and requirements set forth in §
155.094. Conditional uses are also subject to all other applicable requirements
of this chapter.
         (d)   Interim use. An "I" indicates that a use may be allowed for a
limited period of time if an interim use permit is issued by the city after
compliance with the procedure and requirements set forth in §
155.095. Interim uses are also subject to all other applicable requirements of
this chapter.
         (e)   Prohibited use. A blank cell in the use table indicates that the
land use is prohibited in that zoning district.
   (B)   In the event a proposed use is not listed in the use table, the Zoning
Administrator is authorized to classify the proposed use into an existing use
type as set forth in
Table 3.1 in §
155.033 or in
Table 4.1 below that the Zoning Administrator determines most closely fits the
proposed use.
      (1)   If found to be consistent with a listed use, the proposed use shall
be treated the same as the listed use.
      (2)   If no similar use determination is made by the Zoning
Administrator, the proposed use is prohibited. In such case, the City Council
on its own initiative may amend this chapter to allow the proposed use or an
interested party may request an amendment to this chapter in accordance with
the procedure and requirement set forth in §
155.097.
   4.1 Principal Uses Table - Non-Residential Districts
Uses Zoning Districts                Use-Specific Standards
     B- 1 B- 2 B- 3 I-1 P/ I A-1 A P
Uses                     Zoning Districts                Use-Specific Standards
                         B- 1 B- 2 B- 3 I-1 P/ I A-1 A P
RESIDENTIAL
Family Living
Dwelling, single-unit        I               PS  PS  See §
detached                                                 155.061
Dwelling, apartment          P                      
mixed use
Group Living
Assisted living facility                C          See §
                                                         155.061
Residential care
facility, 6 or fewer                        P   P    
persons
Lodging
Hotel or motel           P                          
PUBLIC ASSEMBLY AND INSTITUTIONAL
Adult education and                     C          See §
training facility                                        155.062
Cemetery                                C    C      See §
                                                         155.062
Clinic                   P    P    P                  
Day care center, 250 or  P    P    P    P   C    PS  PS  See §
fewer children                                           155.062
Day care center, greater C               C          See §
than 250 children                                        155.062
Funeral home, mortuary   C               C           
Government
administrative or        C        P       C    C       
service use
Hospital                 C               C           
Park or playground                      P    P       
Place of worship - 250                                   See §
or less persons in       P    P    P    P   C    C      155.062(E)
assembly area
Place of worship -                                       See §
greater than 250 persons C               C    C      155.062(E)
in assembly area
Pre school - licensed    P    P    P       C           
for 250 or fewer persons
Pre school - licensed                                    See §
for greater than 250     C               C          155.062
persons
School                                  C           
COMMERCIAL
Food
Brewpub                  P    P                      
Restaurant               P    P    P                  
Microbrewery & taproom   P    P        P              
Retail Sales and
Services
Auto repair, major                   C             See §
                                                         155.063
Auto repair, minor       C            P              
Cannabis retail          PS                        See §
                                                         155.063
Commercial center        P    P                      
Lower potency hemp       P                          
edible retail
Off-site service         C                         See §
business                                                 155.063
Pawn shop                C                         See
                                                         Ch. 115
Pet store                C    C                     See §
                                                         155.063
Retail sales and
service, standalone      P    P    C                  
store
Veterinary clinic        P    P    P                  
Vehicle fuel, service,   C                         See §
or wash                                                  155.063
Vehicle sales and rental C                         See §
                                                         155.063
Business and Technical
Services
Laboratory, research,
and/or development                   P              
facility
Professional office/     P    P    P    P              
services
RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT
Adult use                            C             See §
                                                         155.063
Auditorium, concert                                      See §
hall, movie theater (250 P                         155.062(E)
or fewer persons)
Auditorium, concert
hall, movie theater      C                         See §
(greater than 250                                        155.062(E)
persons)
Banquet/conference/
meeting/party room,                                      See §
commercial recreation -  P    P    P    P             155.062(E)
indoor, sports training
(250 or fewer persons)
Commercial recreation -  P                          
outdoor
INDUSTRIAL
Cannabis or hemp                     PS            See §
manufacturing                                            155.063
Manufacturing                    P    P              
Mining and extracting                       I      See §
                                                         155.078
Self-storage facility                PS            See §
                                                         155.064
Warehousing - non
explosive materials/             P    P              
equipment
Wholesale trade                      P              
establishment
AGRICULTURE
Agriculture                                 P   P    
Animal-related use                          C   C   See §
                                                         155.065
Cannabis cultivation,                PS            See §
indoor                                                   155.063
Cannabis cultivation,                       PS     See §
outdoor                                                  155.063
Feedlot - commercial                        I   I   See §
                                                         155.065
Retail nursery,                             C   C   See §
greenhouse, or tree farm                                 155.065
UTILITIES
Essential services       P    P    P    P   P    P   P    
Parking facility         PS           PS            See §
                                                         155.066
Towers and wireless      C    C    C    C   C    C      See
facility                                                 Ch. 153
Wind energy conversion                      I   I   See §
system                                                   155.066
 
   Table 4.2 Accessory Uses Table - Non-Residential Districts
Uses Zoning Districts                Use-Specific Standards
     B- 1 B- 2 B- 3 I-1 P/ I A-1 A P
Uses                     Zoning Districts                Use-Specific Standards
                         B- 1 B- 2 B- 3 I-1 P/ I A-1 A P
Accessory retail         PS   PS   PS   PS  C    PS     See §
                                                         155.067
Accessory structure                     PS   PS  PS  See §
                                                         155.067
Adult use, accessory     PS           PS            See §
                                                         155.067
Cannabis or lower                                        See §
potency hemp edible                  PS            155.063
retail
Communication device     PS   PS   PS   PS  PS   PS  PS  See §
                                                         155.067
Construction-related                 I             See §
temporary use                                            155.067
Daycare, family                             P       
Daycare, group family                       P       
Drive-through            C    PS                    See §
establishment                                            155.067
Enclosed accessory                                       See §
processing or            PS   PS   PS                155.067
manufacturing activity
Home occupation                             PS     See §
                                                         155.067
Home extended business                      I   I   See §
                                                         155.067
Home occupation -                           I   I   See §
special                                                  155.067
Keeping of animals                          PS  PS  See §
                                                         155.067
Manufactured home -                         C   C    
relative/employee
Manufactured home -
temporary to provide                        P   P   Wright Co Disab. Ord.
home care for elderly or
disabled
Non-commercial                              P   P    
greenhouse
Nursery or greenhouse                       C      See §
(retail or wholesale)                                    155.067
Off-street parking or    P    P    P    P              
loading facility
Open and outdoor storage C            C             See §
                                                         155.067
Outdoor dining           PS   PS                    See §
                                                         155.067
Outdoor temporary        I    I                     See §
seasonal sales                                           155.067
Open sales lot           C            C             See §
                                                         155.067
Recreational facilities
(i.e. pools, tennis                     C    P       
court) - resident/guest
use
Seasonal storage                            PS     See §
                                                         155.067
Solar energy system      PS   PS   PS   PS  PS   PS  PS  See §
                                                         155.067
Storage of recreational                     P   P    
vehicles and equipment
Swimming pool,                              PS  PS  See §
residential                                              155.067
Produce stand                               P   P    
Wholesale showroom               P    P              
Unsurfaced parking lot               I             See §
                                                         155.067
Utility building         C        P       C    C       
 
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-0-24)
§ 155.044 LOT, SITE, AND BUILDING DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   All uses in Tables 4.1 and 4.2 shall comply with the lot, site, and
building requirements set forth in the following tables and all other
applicable regulations set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   All lot, site, and building dimension standards listed in this section
are subject to the exemptions listed in §
155.024.
   Table 4.3 Non-Residential Lot Dimensional Table
District Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width (ft.)
District Minimum Lot Area Minimum Lot Width (ft.)
B-1      40,000 sq. ft.   100
B-2      15,000 sq. ft.   100
B-3      40,000 sq. ft.   100
I-1      1 acre           150
PI       None             100
A-1      1                200
AP       35 acres2        200
1   See §
155.045(E) for minimum lot area requirements for the A-1 District.
2   Maximum depth for any A-1 or AP lot shall be no greater than six times
the width or less than 200 feet (from public right-of-way/road easement to
the rear lot line) and no less than half the width.
 
   Table 4.4 Non-Residential Site Dimensional Table
         Minimum Setbacks (ft.)                  Minimum
                                Maximum          Principal
District Front Side Rear        Impervious       Building  Maximum Height
                                Surface Coverage Coverage
         Minimum Setbacks (ft.)                      Minimum
                                    Maximum          Principal
District Front            Side Rear Impervious       Building  Maximum Height
                                    Surface Coverage Coverage

B-1      30 ft            151  201  85%              10%       35 ft4
B-2      None1                      None             N/A       35 ft4
B-3      30 ft2           202  202  75%              N/A       35 ft4
I-1      35 ft            151  30   85%              20%       35 ft4
PI       30 ft            151  30   75%              N/A       35 ft4
A-P      N/A              N/A  N/A  N/A              N/A       N/A
         Federal/state/
         county arterial
         road: 130 ft
         from centerline
         or 65 ft from
         ROW/road
         easement line,
         whichever is
         greater                                               2-1/2 stories or
A-1      Local road: 65   155  50   N/A              N/A       35 ft, whichever
         ft from                                               is less
         centerline or 35
         ft from ROW/road
         easement line,
         whichever is
         greater
         Cul-de-sac: 35
         ft from ROW/road
         easement line
Notes
1   Except abutting a street or residential district, then not less than 30 ft.
2   Except not less than 50 ft on a front yard separated from a residential
district or a side or rear yard abutting a residential district.
3   May be decreased with CUP.
4   May be increased with CUP.
5   Any pole or post frame building used as a dwelling unit shall be set back a
minimum of 30 ft.
 
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.045 DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   B-2 Downtown District.
      (1)   Area plan for development.
         (a)   For any proposed residential or commercial development or
redevelopment project, an overall plan for the entire block or neighborhood
must be submitted demonstrating how the proposed project meets the community's
vision for downtown and is compatible with adjacent existing uses and future
planned development.
      (2)   Parking.
         (a)   Parking areas shall be located on the side of structures
opposite the primary street frontage unless the city determines such parking
requirement is not practical under the applicable circumstances.
         (b)   Sites must be designed to create interrelated vehicular and
pedestrian access to adjacent uses, properties, and streets.
         (c)   Parking and drive aisle setbacks for front, side, and rear yards
shall be five feet.
      (3)   Architectural criteria. In addition to compliance with the
requirements set forth in §
155.073, nonresidential structures shall conform to the design principles in
the Downtown Plan and the following standards:
         (a)   Structures shall be located with the primary building
orientation toward the public street, and with the minimum reasonable structure
setback from the right-of-way or front lot line unless the Zoning Administrator
determines this requirement is not practical under the applicable
circumstances;
         (b)   Buildings shall have a highly visible entry and shall feature no
fewer than two of the following: canopies, overhangs, arcades, outdoor patios,
integral planters, display windows, or other architectural details approved by
the Zoning Administrator;
         (c)   Large, uninterrupted exterior wall surfaces are not permitted.
No wall shall have an uninterrupted length exceeding 80 feet, without including
at least two of the following: changes in roof plane; changes in color,
texture, materials or masonry pattern; windows; or an equivalent element that
visually subdivides the wall. In addition to these aforementioned elements,
additional landscaping may be required.
         (d)   Standard corporate style architecture shall be prohibited.
Building entry points may use corporate colors or corporate images at the
discretion of the City Council.
         (e)   Building materials. The design on facades not visible from a
public right-of-way or residential land uses may be less ornamental than those
visible from public right(s)-of- way or residential land uses, but shall still
incorporate materials used on the rest of the building. Walls used for
screening loading docks, trash enclosures, utilities, and the like shall use
the same building materials and patterns as the wall itself on the principal
building(s).
      (4)   Lighting. All exterior site and building lighting shall be
decorative and comparable in style and quality to downtown public streetlights.
   (B)   B-3, Business/Office Park District.
      (1)   Buildings in excess of height limitations as specified in §
155.044 above are allowed by conditional use permit if compliant with each of
the following requirements:
         (a)   For each additional two feet in allowable, actual, roof height
calculated according to the Minnesota State Building Code, which is above the
maximum building height allowed by §
155.044 of this chapter, front and side yard setbacks shall be increased by a
minimum of one foot. Buildings shall not exceed six stories, or 75 feet in
height, whichever is less.
         (b)   Buildings shall be setback from a residentially zoned district
the following minimum distances:
            1.   50 feet for buildings three stories or 35 feet or less in
height.
            2.   100 feet for buildings 36-45 feet in height.
            3.   200 feet for buildings 46-60 feet in height.
            4.   250 feet for buildings 61-75 feet in height.
         (c)   The construction shall not limit solar access to abutting and/or
neighboring properties.
      (2)   In addition to those standards found in §§
155.071 through
155.078, all developments and/or sites within the B-3 District shall be
designed to meet the following standards:
         (a)   Buildings shall have a highly visible entry facing or oriented
toward the principal road. Fifty percent of the building wall adjacent to the
principal road shall contain windows and ground plantings to break up the long
expanse of the wall; and
         (b)   No wall shall have an uninterrupted length exceeding 80 feet
without including at least two of the following: changes in plane; changes in
color, texture, materials or masonry pattern; windows; or an equivalent element
that subdivides the wall.
   (C)   I-1 Industrial District.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply to any parcel of land abutting,
or within 100 feet of State Highway 241 or the northwest corner of C.S.A.H. 36/
Ogren Avenue NE (St. Michael 194 Business Park):
         (a)   Utilities. All utilities, including electrical, telephone, and
gas, shall be constructed underground from the street or utility easement to
the building.
         (b)   Building orientation, materials and construction.
            1.   Buildings must have a highly visible entry facing or oriented
toward State Highway 241 or Ogren Avenue NE. Fifty percent of the building wall
adjacent to State Highway 241 or Ogren Avenue NE must contain windows and
ground plantings to break up the long expanse of the wall.
            2.   No wall may have an uninterrupted length exceeding 80 feet
without including at least two of the following: changes in plane; changes in
color, texture, materials or masonry pattern; windows; or an equivalent element
that subdivides the wall.
            3.   Loading docks, and the like, may not be located on the same
side and be visible from State Highway 241 or Ogren Avenue NE. For buildings
with visibility on two or more sides, the loading dock areas must not be placed
adjacent to the highest classification road.
            4.   No building or structure shall be constructed, altered, or
maintained having any metal, fiberglass, or wood siding materials on any
exterior surface except on an ornamental basis.
            5.   Roof mounted mechanical equipment, vents, and stacks may not
be allowed to be seen from State Highway 241, Ogren Avenue NE, public rights-
of-way, or adjacent properties. If equipment is visible from the public rights-
of way or adjacent properties, the equipment must be screened or designed
consistent with the principal structure. Long runs of exposed duct-work, pipes,
conduits, or other similar items are prohibited.
         (c)   Wall signs. All wall signs shall use individual letters and
numbers. All other signage shall follow the provisions of §§
155.081 through
155.087.
         (d)   Trash receptacles. Trash receptacles, and the like, may not be
located on the same side of State Highway 241 or Ogren Avenue NE, visible from
State Highway 241 or Ogren Avenue NE, or building entries accessible to the
public. For buildings with visibility on two or more sides, the trash
receptacles areas should not be placed adjacent to the highest classification
road.
   (D)   A-1 District.
      (1)   Building requirements.
         (a)   Limiting definitions.
            1.   A QUARTER-QUARTER SECTION is a parcel of land consisting of
approximately 40 acres and constituting the northeast, northwest, southwest, or
southeast quarter of a quarter section of land in the United States Government
survey grid system of land survey. For the purposes of this section, a
government lot shall be considered a quarter-quarter section provided that it
contains at least 30 acres of land above the ordinary high water level (OHWL).
            2.   An ELIGIBLE QUARTER-QUARTER SECTION shall be any quarter-
quarter section which meets all of the following:
               a.   It is complete and under common ownership;
               b.   It has frontage on a public road; and
               c.   It does not include any existing dwelling, commercial use
or other non- agricultural development.
            3.   An ELIGIBLE LOT OF RECORD shall be a lot of record existing
prior to August 1,1978 which has frontage on an existing public right-of-way,
existing easement, or other private roadway and does not include any existing
dwelling, commercial use, or other non-agricultural use or structure other than
accessory uses, such as garages, storage sheds, and the like and which is
greater than ten acres in size but does not qualify as an eligible quarter-
quarter section.
            4.   An eligible lot of record or quarter-quarter section may be
permitted one single-family dwelling on the parcel as a whole, or one division
as regulated in §
155.044 above. This right shall be referenced as the parcel's "entitlement."
         (b)   Determining entitlements on large parcels.
            1.   On adjoining, common ownership parcels, including all
contiguous land under common ownership, extra entitlements shall be available
to the entire parcel according to the following conditions:
               a.   The lands involved comprise more than 60 acres; and
               b.   If the parcel is the result of a division since August 1,
1978, then the number of entitlements shall be determined by basing the
calculations in division (D)(1)(b)(2) below of this section to all contiguous
lands under common ownership as they existed on August 1, 1978. These
entitlements shall be allocated to the new parcels by the Zoning Administrator
based on acreage and the standards contained herein, and appeals shall be heard
by the City Council provided that no extra entitlements may be created.
            2.   Entitlements for such parcels shall be determined by the
Zoning Administrator as follows:
               a.   The total acreage of the parcel shall be calculated using
the best information available. The Zoning Administrator or City Council may
require the applicant to provide a survey of the property in case of a dispute
over total acreage of the parcel.
               b.   Forty acres shall be subtracted from this total for each
existing house on the parcel, and for each entitlement division which has
occurred since August 1, 1978.
               c.   The result from provisions (D)(1)(b)(2)(a) and (D)(1)(b)(2)
(b) above of §
155.045(E) shall be divided by 40 acres, and that result rounded to the nearest
whole number, which shall be the number of entitlements the entire parcel is
allocated. The use of these entitlements shall be subject to all regulations in
this chapter, including public road frontage requirements.
         (c)   Entitlement divisions. If a landowner chooses to use an
entitlement on an eligible lot of record or eligible quarter-quarter section as
a division, the division and remainder of the eligible parcel shall be subject
to the following requirements:
            1.   The owners of the eligible parcel must sign and record a deed
restriction to apply to the remainder of the parcel. The restriction shall
limit any further residences, divisions or non-agricultural development of the
remainder in accord with the terms of this section, unless it is rezoned.
            2.   Landlocked parcels are prohibited. The remainder must have
frontage on a public road. No lot or parcel may be created which does not have
road frontage according to the requirements of this chapter.
            3.   Lot size. Lots must be at least two acres and no more than
five acres in size.
            4.   Park dedication shall be provided according to §
154.031 of the subdivision regulations.
      (2)   Transfer of residential development density rights. Residential
development density rights may be transferred to contiguous property within the
city under the same ownership for the purpose of preserving productive
farmlands provided that:
         (a)   The property is guided agriculture in the comprehensive plan;
         (b)   The property meets all access, size, and soil requirements
outlined for single-family residential development in the A-1 zone;
         (c)   The parcels are clustered in a contiguous fashion;
         (d)   Each cluster shall not contain more than four residential
parcels;
         (e)   The cluster minimizes disruption to agricultural activities;
         (f)   A deed restriction shall be placed upon the parcels from which
the development rights have been transferred to prohibit additional
development;
         (g)   The average density of one dwelling unit per quarter-quarter
section is maintained. In no case shall density transfers be used to increase
the residential density in the A-1 District;
         (h)   The purpose of allowing such transfers is to preserve productive
farmlands, and the Planning Commission shall consider the effects of the
transfers on the environment, the surrounding neighborhood, and nearby farm
operations during its deliberation; and
         (i)   Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and
structures necessary for the health, safety, and general welfare of the
community, provided that if abutting a residential district, the requirements
of §
155.076 are complied with.
   (E)   AP Agricultural Preserve District.
      (1)   Eligibility. Any and all eligibility requirements contained in M.S.
Chapter 40A, as it may be amended from time to time, are incorporated herein by
reference and shall apply as set forth herein.
         (a)   Only legally created parcels, lots, or lots of record which are
designated as Agricultural (AG) in the City of St. Michael Comprehensive Plan
shall be eligible. In those cases where a lot or parcel may lie within two
different designations in the Land Use Plan, only the portion of land within
the Agricultural (AG) designation will be eligible.
         (b)   Only lands which lie entirely within the AP District shall be
eligible. A residential density no greater than one residence per 40 acres
shall be maintained, however, residences existing prior to the adoption of this
section shall not preclude eligibility.
         (c)   Lands enrolled in the Agricultural Land Preservation Program
must be legally created parcels, lots, or lots of record which are at least 35
acres in size. Smaller parcels may be enrolled subject to approval by
resolution of the City Council, provided that:
            1.   The smaller parcels adjoin other parcels being enrolled in the
Agricultural Land Preservation Program to provide a total greater than 35 acres
in size;
            2.   The combined parcels do not exceed the residential density
permitted of one residence per 40 acres;
            3.   No such parcel may be withdrawn from the Agricultural Land
Preservation Program except in conjunction with similar parcels which total at
least 35 acres in size; all remaining enrolled parcels must meet the 35-acre
size requirement; and
            4.   No such parcel may be used as a new residential building site
despite any eligibility granted by
Chapter 155 of the city code, unless an overall density of one residence per 40
acres is maintained.
         (d)   Parcels, lots, or lots of record may not be subdivided for the
purpose of enrolling only part of the property in the Agricultural Land
Preservation Program while retaining other parts for development or other non-
agricultural uses. Divisions which strictly comply with the provisions of §§
155.041 through
155.045 for the A-1 General Agriculture Zoning District may take place before
or after enrollment in the Agricultural Land Preservation Program.
      (2)   Procedure/benefits and restrictions/duration and termination.
         (a)   Requirements for application and inclusion in an agricultural
preserve, as defined in M.S. Chapter 40A, as it may be amended from time to
time, and for obtaining the benefits thereof, shall include all those set forth
in M.S. Chapter 40A, and are adopted herein by reference.
         (b)   Applications shall follow
Chapters 154 and
155 of the city code.
         (c)   The benefits and restrictions which apply to property enrolled
in agricultural preserves shall be as set forth in M.S. Chapter 40A, and are
incorporated herein by reference.
         (d)   The duration and termination of an agricultural preserve shall
be as set forth in M.S. Chapter 40A, which is incorporated herein by reference.
      (3)   Entitlement divisions in the AP district shall follow the
provisions listed in §
155.045(E)(1)(c) above.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
SPECIAL OR OVERLAY ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 155.051 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is established to provide comprehensive
procedures and standards designed for planned unit developments to allow the
development of neighborhoods or portions thereof incorporating a variety of
residential types and nonresidential uses, recognizing that traditional
density, bulk, setbacks, use, and subdivision regulations which may be useful
in protecting the character of substantially developed areas may not be
appropriate to control development in less developed areas.
   (B)   Specifically, a PUD is intended to encourage:
      (1)   Innovations in residential development to the end that the growing
demands for housing at all economic levels may be met by greater variety in
tenure, type, design, and siting of dwellings and by the conservation and more
efficient use of land in such developments.
      (2)   Higher standards of site and building design through the use of
trained and experienced land
planners, architects and landscape architects.
      (3)   More convenience in location of accessory commercial and service
areas.
      (4)   The preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics
such as natural topography and geologic features and the prevention of soil
erosion.
      (5)   A creative use of land and related physical development which
allows a phased and orderly transition of land from rural to urban uses.
      (6)   An efficient use of land resulting in smaller networks of utilities
and streets, thereby lower
housing costs and public investments.
      (7)   A development pattern in harmony with the objectives of the
comprehensive plan.
      (8)   A more desirable environment than would be possible through the
strict application of zoning and subdivision regulations of the city.
      (9)   To allow variation from some of the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   General requirements and standards.
      (1)   Ownership. An application for PUD approval shall be filed by the
landowner or jointly by all landowners of the property included in a project.
The application and all submissions shall be directed to the development of the
property as a unified whole. In the case of multiple ownership, the Approved
Final PUD Plan and PUD Development Agreement will be binding on all owners.
      (2)   Comprehensive plan consistency. The proposed PUD shall be
consistent with the city's comprehensive plan.
      (3)   Zoning. All PUDs must be rezoned to a PUD zoning district
indicating the underlying zoning, such as R1-PUD. Some variations from the
provisions of the underlying zoning district may be allowed including but not
limited to setbacks, height, lot area, width and depth, yards and parking (in
accordance with division (C)(5) below). The uses allowed in the underlying
zoning district or districts shall apply within the PUD.
      (4)   Density. The maximum allowable density in a PUD shall be in
compliance with the applicable provisions of the underlying zoning district as
found in §§
155.031 through
155.035 and the shoreland overlay district as found in §
155.054, except as follows:
         (a)   R-1a District. The maximum residential density may be increased
in increments of 0.25 dwelling units per acre for each additional 5% of land
provided as park or open space, over and above the minimum open space and park
land dedication requirements as found in §§
155.031 through
155.035. The additional density shall be accomplished by proposing narrower
lots, while maintaining lot size, side yard setbacks, garage size, and garage
width requirements found elsewhere in this chapter.
         (b)   R-4 District. The maximum residential density may be increased
in the R-4 District consistent with comprehensive plan in the Downtown and Town
Center PUD areas.
         (c)   Individual buildings or lots within a PUD may exceed the density
standards, provided that density for the entire PUD does not exceed the
permitted standards. Dwelling units or sites may be clustered into groups.
      (5)   Setbacks.
         (a)   The front, side and rear yard requirements at the periphery of
the Planned Unit Development site at minimum shall be the same as imposed in
the respective underlying districts.
         (b)   No building shall be located less than 15 feet from the back of
the curb line, along those roadways that are part of an internal street
pattern.
         (c)   The city may allow more than one principal building to be
constructed on each platted lot within a PUD as long as the buildings are
separated by at least 15 feet.
      (6)   Roadways. Roadways may vary from the design standards contained in
the subdivision ordinance (
Chapter 154) for road widths, right-of-way, maximum grades, and cul-de-sac
lengths upon recommendation by the City Engineer and approval of the City
Council.
      (7)   Utilities. In any PUD, all utilities, including telephone,
electricity, gas and tele-cable shall be installed underground.
      (8)   Landscaping. A landscape plan shall be provided and shall include a
detailed planting list with sizes and species. In assessing the landscaping
plan, the City Council shall consider the natural features of the particular
site, the architectural characteristics of the proposed structures and the
overall scheme of the PUD plan.
      (9)   Common open space.
         (a)   Common open space sufficient to meet the minimum requirements
established in this chapter and such complementary structures and improvements
as are necessary and appropriate for the benefit and enjoyment of the residents
of the PUD shall be provided within the area of the PUD as required by the City
Council.
         (b)   Stating of public and common open space. When a PUD provides for
common or public open space, the total area of common or public open space or
land escrow security in any stage of development shall, at minimum, bear the
same relationship to the total open space to be provided in the entire PUD as
the stages or units completed or under development bear to the entire PUD.
         (c)   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open
space/facilities. Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided
within the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of such open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard. Common open space and service facilities
within a PUD may be placed under the ownership of one or more of the following,
as approved by the city:
            1.   Dedicated to public, where a community-wide use is anticipated
and the City Council agrees to accept the dedication.
            2.   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated.
            3.   Property owners association, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
               a.   Prior to the use or occupancy or sale or the execution of
controls for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tracts, townhouse,
apartment, or common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and
restrictions or an equivalent document or a document such as specified by Laws
1963, Chapter 457, Section 11 and a set of floor plans such as specified by
Laws 1963, Chapter 457, Section 13 shall be led with the city. The filing with
the city to be made prior to the filings of the declaration or document or
floor plans with the recording officers of Wright County, Minnesota.
               b.   The declarations of covenants, conditions and restrictions
or equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of
conveyance affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses, or
apartments shall subject such properties to the terms of the declaration.
               c.   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions
shall provide that an owner's association or corporation shall be formed and
that all owners shall be members of the association or corporation which shall
maintain all properties and common areas in good repair and which shall assess
individual property owners proportionate shares of joint or common costs.
               d.   The declaration shall additionally, among other things,
provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain
properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the city
or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due and in
the event the city incurs any expenses in enforcing its rules and regulations,
which expenses are not immediately reimbursed by the association or
corporation, then the city shall have the right to assess each property its pro
rata share of the city's expenses. Such assessments, together with interest
thereon and costs of collection, shall be a lien on each property against which
each such assessment is made.
               e.   Membership shall be mandatory for each owner and the
owner's successor and assigns.
               f.   The open space restrictions shall be permanent and not for
a given period of years.
               g.   The association shall be responsible for liability
insurance, local taxes, and the maintenance of the open space facilities to be
deeded to it.
               h.   Property owners shall pay their pro rata share of the cost
of the association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association
which meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance
with state law.
               i.   The association shall be able to adjust the assessment to
meet changed needs.
               j.   The bylaws and rules of the association and all covenants
and restrictions to be recorded shall be approved by the City Council prior to
the approval of the final PUD plan.
   (D)   Benefit. The proposed PUD shall accomplish one or more of the purposes
stated in divisions (A) and (B) above and shall not be simply for the enhanced
economic gain of the applicant. The determination as to whether applicant has
demonstrated that the proposed PUD accomplishes one or more of the purposes
stated in provisions (A) and (B) above shall be solely that of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.052 WETLAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. To promote the general health, safety, and welfare of city
residents by conserving and protecting wetlands, avoiding the alteration or
destruction of wetlands, and requiring sound management practices as provided
for in the Wetland Conservation Act, M.S. §§ 103G.221 et seq. (hereinafter
referred to as the WCA) and the accompanying rules of the Minnesota Board of
Water and Soil Resources (Minnesota Rules Chapter 8420, as amended) when
development and construction occurs in the vicinity of wetlands. The city seeks
to accomplish the following:
      (1)   Balance the need to preserve and protect natural resources and
systems with the rights of private property owners and the need to support the
efficient use of developable land within the city;
      (2)   Promote water quality by:
         (a)   Maintaining the ability of wetlands to recharge and receive the
discharge of groundwater;
         (b)   Preventing soil erosion;
         (c)   Retaining sediment, nutrients and pollutants in wetland buffer
strip areas before it discharges into community wetlands, lakes and streams;
and
         (d)   Avoiding contamination and eutrophication of water features;
      (3)   Reduce human disturbances to wetlands by providing a wetland buffer
strip along the upland boundary of wetlands; and
      (4)   Provide wildlife habitat and thereby support the maintenance of
diversity of both plant and animal species within the city.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   The Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act and Minnesota Rules, Chapter
8420, as amended from time to time, are hereby incorporated by reference. In
case of a conflict between this division and the requirements of state law the
more restrictive provision shall apply.
      (2)   No property owner or other person shall make any alteration to a
wetland or wetland buffer strip unless and until the provisions of this
division have been complied with.
      (3)   Wetland delineation. Unless determined otherwise by the Zoning
Administrator, prior to city consideration of a subdivision, zoning, or
building permit request, a property owner shall submit a wetland delineation
report. The wetland delineation must be approved by the Zoning Administrator or
designated city wetland consultant prior to approval of the subdivision,
zoning, or building permit request.
      (4)   Wetland alteration.
         (a)   Application. Unless determined otherwise by the city, a property
owner shall submit an application to the city prior to making any alteration to
a wetland with the following information:
            1.   Wetland delineation plan and written report;
            2.   Wetland impact plan;
            3.   Wetland mitigation plan; and
            4.   Any other information deemed necessary under this chapter or
the WCA as determined by the city or TEP.
         (b)   Decision. A determination regarding wetland impact applications
must be made by the City Council prior to any wetland alteration. Any
conditions required by the City Council will become conditions of building
permit issuance or subdivision approval.
   (C)   Wetland buffer strips – properties platted prior to December 14, 2004,
unplatted, or zoned A-1.
      (1)   A minimum ten-foot buffer strip from the delineated boundary of a
wetland is hereby established.
      (2)   No principal or accessory structures, patios, paving, or other
impervious surfaces shall be permitted within the wetland buffer strip.
   (D)   Wetland buffer strips – properties platted on or after December 14,
2004.
      (1)   Establishment. A minimum ten-foot buffer strip from the delineated
boundary of a wetland is hereby established. Wetland buffer strips shall meet
the following standards:
         (a)   No principal or accessory structures, patios, paving, or other
impervious surfaces shall be permitted within the wetland buffer strip.
         (b)   Alterations, including but not limited to mowing, introduction
of non-native vegetation, cutting, filling, dumping, yard waste disposal or
fertilizer application, are prohibited within the wetland buffer strip, unless
a vegetation management plan or other approval is granted by the city.
         (c)   The applicant shall establish and maintain wetland buffer strip
vegetation in accordance with the requirements found in division (D)(2) below.
         (d)   The applicant shall install and maintain required wetland buffer
strip monuments consistent with City Engineering Guidelines at each lot line
where it crosses a wetland buffer strip and at 200-foot intervals along the
edge of the wetland buffer strip. The city reserves the right to require more
or fewer monuments on a case-by-case basis if it deems it necessary to better
define the buffer or impractical.
         (e)   The city, at its sole discretion, may allow stormwater treatment
systems, or public nature trails comprised of natural materials, to be located
within the wetland buffer strip.
         (f)   Leisure activities such as hiking, nature studies, canoeing,
boating and horseback riding, including facilities such as nature trails and
docks which allow for such activities are permitted in the wetland buffer
strip.
         (g)   Final plats for all subdivisions shall provide an easement over
all wetlands and wetland buffer strips for the purposes of identification and
protection.
      (2)   Wetland buffer strip setback. Setbacks from wetland bu er strips
are hereby established as follows:
         (a)   Principal structures – 30 feet (minimum 40 feet from wetland
boundary).
         (b)   Accessory structures, decks, patios, pools, paving, or other
impervious surface – 15 feet (minimum 25 feet from wetland boundary).
      (3)   Fences and retaining walls.
         (a)   Fences and retaining walls may encroach into the wetland buffer
strip setback, but at no time shall they be allowed within the wetland buffer
strip or in delineated wetlands.
      (4)   Vegetation standards.
         (a)   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in wetland buffer
strip areas, the retention of such vegetation in an undisturbed state is
required unless an applicant receives approval to replace such vegetation. A
wetland buffer strip has acceptable natural vegetation if the Zoning
Administrator determines it:
            1.   Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that have
been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five consecutive years;
            2.   Has an overstory of trees and/or shrubs with at least 80%
canopy closure that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five
consecutive years; or
            3.   Contains a mixture of the plant communities described in (1)
and (2) above that have been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five
consecutive years.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the performance standards set forth above in
division (a) the Zoning Administrator may determine existing wetland buffer
strip vegetation to be unacceptable if it:
            1.   Exhibits a dominance of non-native invasive vegetation;
            2.   Has topography that tends to channelize the flow of surface
runoff, resulting in erosion issues; or
            3.   Is unlikely to retain nutrients and sediment.
         (c)   Where wetland buffer strips, or a portion thereof, are not
vegetated or have unacceptable vegetation as described above, such areas shall
be re-planted and maintained. The wetland buffer strip shall be planted
according to a plan approved by the city including the following standards:
            1.   Prior to planting and seeding, wetland buffer areas must be
treated to control weed growth with an herbicide that breaks down sufficiently
within 14 days prior to seeding;
            2.   Planted with a seed mix containing 100% perennial native
vegetation, such as Minnesota Department of Transportation Mix for prairie
sedge and prairie meadow areas, Mixture 25A Modified (25B or 26B) or other
alternative pre-approved by the Zoning Administrator, except for a one-time
planting of an annual nurse or cover crop such as oats or rye;
            3.   Erosion control shall remain in place until the area
vegetation is established, and then promptly removed.
            4.   An escrow and security shall be provided to the city prior to
commencement of any grading activities, in an amount and manner consistent with
the City of St. Michael Policy on Performance Security and Escrow for
Improvement Projects.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.053 SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. This shoreland subchapter is adopted
pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 105,
Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.2500- 6120.3900, and the planning and zoning
enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter 462.
      (2)   Policy. The uncontrolled use of the shorelands of the city affects
the public health, safety, and general welfare not only by contributing to
pollution of public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base.
Therefore, it is in the best interest of the public health, safety, and welfare
to provide for the wise subdivision, use, and development of shorelands of
public waters. The State Legislature has delegated responsibility to local
governments of the state to regulate the subdivision, use, and development of
the shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of
surface waters, conserve the economic and natural environmental values of
shorelands, and provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources.
This responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
      (3)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
shorelands of the public water bodies as classified in this chapter. Pursuant
to Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.2500- 612.3900, no lake, pond, or flowage
less than ten acres in size in municipalities need be regulated in a local
government's shoreland regulations. A body of water created by a private user
where there was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion of the governing
body, be exempt from this chapter.
   (B)   Applicability of provisions.
      (1)   The S, Shoreland Overlay District shall be applied to and
superimposed (overlayed) upon all zoning districts as contained herein as
existing or amended by the text and map of this chapter. The regulations and
requirements imposed by the S District shall be in addition to those
established for districts which jointly apply. Under the joint application of
districts, the more restrictive requirements shall apply.
   (C)   Boundaries.
      (1)   The boundaries of the Shoreland District are established within the
following distances from the ordinary high water level of the surface water
depending on the size of the surface water indicated on the St. Michael Zoning
Map.
 
Surface Water                                                Distance (feet)
Greater than 10 acres                                        1,000
Rivers and streams (draining an area greater than two square 300*
miles)
* The distance requirement shall be increased to the limit of the floodplain
when greater than 300 feet.
 
   (D)   Shoreland classification system.
      (1)   Shoreland classification system. The public waters of the city have
been classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minnesota Rules,
Part 6120.2500, Subp. 13, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Wright
County, Minnesota. Other surface waters affected by this chapter, generally
having less than ten acres, are classified as wetland systems and thus are
regulated under the provisions of §
155.052 of this code.
      (2)   The surface waters affected by this section and which require
controlled development of their shoreland (Shoreland District) are identified
below and include any and all navigable inlets, channels, bays and waterways,
whether naturally created or manmade, sharing the water of a body of water
identified below.
         (a)   Certain water bodies. The shoreland area for the water bodies
listed in this section shall be as defined in divisions (b) and (c) below and
as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
         (b)   Lakes.
Protected Waters Inventory ID Lake Type
Protected Waters Inventory ID Lake Type
Foster           86-1         Natural Environment Lake
Unnamed          86-16W       Natural Environment Lake
Unnamed          86-18        Natural Environment Lake
Gonz             86-19        Natural Environment Lake
Uhl              86-17        Natural Environment Lake
Wagner           86-10        Natural Environment Lake
Mud              86-21        Natural Environment Lake
Steele           86-22        Natural Environment Lake
Moore            86-28        Natural Environment Lake
Schmidts         86-29        Natural Environment Lake
School           86-15P       Natural Environment Lake
Pelican          86-31        Natural Environment Lake
Wilhelm          86-20        Recreational Development Lake
Beebe            86-23        Recreational Development Lake
Charlotte        86-11        Natural Environment Lake
 
         (c)   Rivers and streams.
 
Protected Waters Watercourse Type
Crow River       Agricultural River
Unnamed*         Tributary Stream
Unnamed          Ditch
* All protected watercourses in the city shown on the Protected Waters
Inventory Map for Wright County, a copy of which is hereby adopted by
reference, not given a classification shall be considered “tributary.”
 
      (3)   Land use district descriptions.
         (a)   Land use districts. The city's Official Future Land Use Plan and
Zoning Map delineate allowable land uses. The land use districts within the
Shoreland Overlay District consist of the base districts identified in this
chapter. All land uses allowed as permitted, permitted with standards,
conditional, or interim uses within the base district are allowed within the
Shoreland Overlay District, provided all standards of the base district and the
shoreland district are met.
         (b)   Criteria for designation. The land use districts in this section
and the delineation of a land use district's boundaries on the Official Zoning
Map must be consistent with the goals, polices, and objectives of the
comprehensive plan and the following criteria, considerations, and objectives:
            1.   General criteria. General considerations and criteria for all
land uses shall be:
               a.   Preservation of natural areas;
               b.   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
               c.   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
               d.   Topographic characteristics;
               e.   Vegetative cover;
               f.   In-water physical characteristics, values, and constraints;
               g.   Recreational use of the surface water;
               h.   Road and service center accessibility;
               i.   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve
water and related land resources;
               j.   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature,
requires location in shoreland areas; and
               k.   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
            2.   Planned unit developments. Standards found in this section may
vary using the PUD process (PUD Zoning Ordinance). Factors and criteria for
planned unit developments shall be:
               a.   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
               b.   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
               c.   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development
approach;
               d.   The level of current development in the area; and
               e.   The amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands.
   (E)   Lot requirements and setbacks.
      (1)   Lot area and width standards. The lot area, lot width, and
structure setback standards for residential lots created after the date of
enactment of this chapter for the lake and river/stream classifications are as
found below.
         (a)   Lakes/rivers.
Waterbody Class Natural Environme Recreation al General Developmen River/ Ditch
                nt                Developme nt  t                  Stream
                     Natural      Recreation   General      River/
Waterbody Class      Environme nt al Developme Developmen t Stream Ditch
                                  nt
         Width (ft.) 200          150          150          150    See
         Area (sq.                                                 underlying
         ft.)        43,560       43,560       43,560       43,560 zoning

         Septic
         System
         Setback     150          75           50           75
         from OHWL
Riparian (ft.)
Lots     Structure
         Setback                                                   75 ft. from
         from OHWL   150          100          75           100    top of ditch
         (ft.)                                                     bank
         Unsewered
         Structure
         Setback
         from OHWL   150          75           50           75
         (ft.)
         Sewered
         Width (ft.) 150          100          100          100    See
         Area (sq.                                                 underlying
Non-     ft.)        30,000       30,000       30,000       20,000 zoning
Riparian
Lots     Structure                                                 75 ft. from
         Setback     150          100          75           100    top of ditch
         from OHWL                                                 bank
         (ft.)
 
         (b)   Additional special provisions. Residential subdivisions with
dwelling unit densities exceeding those in the tables in this section can only
be allowed if designed and approved as residential planned unit developments
under this section of this chapter. Only land above the ordinary high water
level of public waters can be used to meet lot area standards, and lot width
standards must be met at both the ordinary high water level and at the building
line.
      (2)   Placement and setbacks. When more than one setback applies to a
site, structures and facilities must be located to meet all setbacks.
         (a)   One water-oriented accessory structure designed in accordance
with this section may be set back a minimum distance of ten feet from the
ordinary high water level.
         (b)   The following additional structure setbacks apply, regardless of
classification of the water body:
 
Setback from:                                                  Setback (ft.)
Top of bluff                                                   30
Unplatted cemetery                                             50
Centerline of federal, state, or county highway                100
Centerline of town road, public street, or other roads not     65
classified (minimum 30-foot setback from ROW or road easement)
 
         (c)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         (d)   Uses without water-oriented needs. Uses without water-oriented
needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if
located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set back
double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be substantially
screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
         (e)   Where decks or principal structures exist on the adjoining lots
on both sides of a proposed building site, structure setbacks may be altered
without a variance to conform to the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high
water level, provided:
            1.   The proposed building site is not located in a shore impact
zone or in a bluff impact zone.
            2.   Principal structure setback is based on the adjacent principal
structure.
            3.   Deck setbacks are based on the adjacent deck, if any, or
principal structure, if no deck exists.
   (F)   Building requirements.
      (1)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not
exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed
or floodproofed must be determined as follows:
         (a)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three
feet above the highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary high
water level, whichever is higher;
         (b)   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least
three feet above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are not
available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the ordinary
high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine the
effects of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to
establish a flood protection elevation. Technical evaluations must be done by a
qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with Minnesota Rules, Parts
6120.5000 to 6120.6200 governing the management of floodplain areas. If more
than one approach is used, the highest floor protection elevation determined
must be used for placing structures and other facilities; and
         (c)   Water-oriented accessory structures, they may have the lowest
floor placed lower than the elevation determined in this item if the structure
is constructed of flood resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation, and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
      (2)   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one water-
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in this
section of this chapter if this water-oriented accessory structure complies
with the following provisions:
         (a)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point;
         (b)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high
water level must be at least ten feet;
         (c)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks, or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
         (d)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area;
         (e)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities;
and
         (f)   As an alternative for general development and recreational
development water bodies, water-oriented accessory structures used solely for
watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and water-oriented
sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to 400 square feet, provided the
maximum width of the structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to the
configuration of the shoreline.
      (3)   Stairways, lifts, and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following design requirements:
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open-space recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties, and
planned unit developments;
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
         (d)   Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
         (e)   Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore
areas, provided that the dimensional and performance standards of (a) through
(e) above are complied with in addition to the requirements of Minnesota Rules,
Chapter 1340.
      (4)   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the value of the site unless
adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a public
repository.
      (5)   Steep slopes. The City Engineer must evaluate possible soil erosion
impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a permit
for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways, structures, or
other improvements on steep slopes. When determined necessary, conditions must
be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and to preserve existing
vegetation screening of structures, vehicles, and other facilities as viewed
from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-on vegetation.
      (6)   Height of structures. All structures in residential districts,
except churches and nonresidential agricultural structures, must not exceed 25
feet in height.
   (G)   Subdivision/platting provisions.
      (1)   All subdivisions and platting within the Shoreland Overlay District
must conform to the provisions and procedures outlined for the Shoreland
District, the base district, and the City Subdivision Ordinance.
   (H)   Planned unit development.
      (1)   All requests for planned unit development conditional use permits
within the Shoreland Overlay District shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions of §§
155.051 et seq.
   (I)   Administration.
      (1)   Permits required.
         (a)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or
building additions (and including such related activities as construction of
decks and signs), the installation and/or alteration of sewage treatment
systems, and those grading and filling activities not exempted by this section
of this subchapter. Application for a permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on the forms provided. The application shall include the
necessary information so that the Zoning Administrator can determine the site's
suitability for the intended use and that a compliant sewage treatment system
will be provided.
         (b)   A permit authorizing an addition to an existing structure shall
stipulate that an identified nonconforming sewage treatment system, as defined
by this section, shall be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   A permit is required if more than 50 cubic yards of soil is
disturbed according to §
155.093.
      (2)   Certificate of zoning compliance. The Zoning Administrator shall
issue a certificate of zoning compliance for each activity requiring a permit
as specified in this section of this subchapter. This certificate will specify
that the use of land conforms to the requirements of this subchapter. Any use,
arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in §
155.099.
      (3)   Variances. Variances may only be granted in accordance with §
155.096.
      (4)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
         (a)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider
variances, amendments, or conditional uses under local shoreland management
controls must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's designated
representative and postmarked at least ten days before the hearings. Notices of
hearings to consider a proposed subdivisions/plat must include copies of the
subdivision/plat.
         (b)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under local shoreland
management controls, must be sent to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's
designated representative and postmarked within ten days of final action.
   (J)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses allowed within shoreland areas
shall be subject to the review and approval procedures, and criteria and
conditions for review of conditional uses established in §
155.094. The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions apply
within shoreland areas:
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the water body and
the topographic, vegetation, and soil conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
         (a)   There shall be prevention of soil erosion or other possible
pollution of public waters, both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
         (d)   The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The City Council,
upon consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of this
chapter, shall attach such conditions to the issuance of the conditional use
permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design, and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas,
and vehicle parking areas.
   (K)   Nonconformities. All legally established nonconformities as of the
date of this chapter may continue, but they will be managed according to
applicable state statutes and other regulations of this community for the
subjects of alterations and additions, repair after damage, discontinuance of
use, and intensification of use, except that the following standards will also
apply in shoreland areas:
      (1)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record.
         (a)   Lots of record in the office of the County Recorder on the date
of enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements of
this section may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements, provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, the lot was created compliant with official controls in effect at
the time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are
met.
         (b)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
         (c)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of this section
the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the purposes of
sale or development. The lot must be combined with one or more contiguous lots
so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the requirements of
this section as much as possible.
      (2)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures.
         (a)   General provisions. All additions or expansions to the outside
dimensions of an existing nonconforming structure must meet the setback,
height, and other requirements of this section of this chapter. Any deviation
from these requirements must be authorized by a variance pursuant to this
section.
         (b)   Deck additions. Deck additions may be allowed without a variance
to a structure not meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water
level if all of the following criteria and standards are met:
            1.   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established (November, 1991);
            2.   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
            3.   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level
does not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary
high water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive;
            4.   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not roofed
or screened;
         (c)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
            1.   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of this
section must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or variance of any
type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the property. For the
purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall not be considered
nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage treatment system's improper
setback from the ordinary high water level.
            2.   The City Council has by formal resolution notified the
Commissioner of its program to identify nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
The City Council will require upgrading or replacement of any nonconforming
system identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will
not exceed two years. Sewage systems installed according to all applicable
local shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. §
105.485 in effect at the time of installation may be considered as conforming
unless they are determined to be failing, except that systems using cesspools,
leaching pits, seepage pits, or other deep disposal methods, or systems with
less soil treatment area separation above groundwater than required by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency's Chapter 7080 (Minnesota Rules Chapter
7080) for design of on-site sewage treatment systems, shall be considered
nonconforming.
      (3)   Reduction of side yard setback for substandard lots. Side yard
setback requirements may be reduced to 20% of the lot width in such cases where
the lot width is less than 90 feet. In no case shall the side yard setback be
less than ve feet from the property line.
   (L)   Land and vegetation alterations. Alterations of vegetation and
topography will be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix
nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, prevent
bank slumping, and protect sh and wildlife habitat.
      (1)   Vegetation alterations.
         (a)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas regulated by this section of this chapter are exempt from the
vegetation alteration standards that follow.
         (b)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses as regulated in this section, is allowed subject to the
following standards:
            1.   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff
impact zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing
for forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable
as a conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is developed
and approved by the soil and water conservation district in which the property
is located.
            2.   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
               a.   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities
as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
               b.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is
preserved; and
               c.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
      (2)   Topographic alterations; grading and filling.
         (a)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways under
validly issued construction permits for these facilities do not require the
issuance of a separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and
filling standards in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of
permits for construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and
driveways.
         (b)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by this section.
         (c)   Notwithstanding provisions (a) and (b) above, a grading and
filling permit will be required for:
            1.   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
            2.   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside
of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
         (d)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances, and subdivision approvals:
            1.   Grading and filling in any Type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect, according to the Wetland Ordinance, the following functional qualities
of the wetland. (This evaluation must also include a determination of whether
the wetland alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or approvals
by other local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, or the United States Army Corps of
Engineers. The applicant will be so advised.)
               a.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
               b.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood
damage;
               c.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
               d.   Recreational use;
               e.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
               f.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as
historic significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or
others.
            2.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible.
            3.   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary,
for temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
            4.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used.
            5.   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation district and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
            6.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
            7.   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
            8.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
            9.   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner under M.S. § 103G.
            10.   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
            11.   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated
grading of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one-foot vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water
level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does
not exceed three feet.
      (3)   Connections to public waters. Excavations where the intended
purpose is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons,
and harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the Commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
   (M)   Streets, driveways and parking.
      (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography. Documentation must be provided
by a qualified individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and
constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with
the field office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation
district, or other applicable technical materials.
      (2)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setbacks
and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
      (3)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and
access-related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided
the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this subchapter are
met. For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of this section
must be met.
   (N)   Storm water management. In addition to Chapter 152, Surface Water
Management, of this code, the following general and specific standards shall
apply:
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain storm
water runoff before discharge to public waters.
         (b)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, and erosion
potential and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be
stabilized and protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to
retain sediment on the site.
         (c)   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle storm water
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways, and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation, and in filtration rather than buried pipes and
manmade materials and facilities.
      (2)   Specific standards.
         (a)   Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed 25% of the
lot area, except as follows: lots less than 11,250 square feet may have
impervious surface coverage of not more than the lesser of 2,812 square feet or
35% of the lot area if the Zoning Administrator determines that stormwater
management practices mitigate for the increased impervious surface coverage.
         (b)   Impervious surface coverage of commercial and industrial lots
must meet requirements of the applicable underlying zoning district.
         (c)   When constructed facilities are used for storm water management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation districts.
         (d)   New constructed storm water outfalls to public waters must
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
   (O)   Use standards.
      (1)   Commercial, industrial, public, and semipublic use standards.
         (a)   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public,
or semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public
waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those
uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
            1.   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks,
and other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures, where appropriate.
            2.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
            3.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards:
               a.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff.
               b.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
               c.   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore
impact zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate
potential safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent
direct illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
         (b)   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
      (2)   Agriculture use standards.
         (a)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture,
truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in permanent
vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan (Resource Management
Systems) consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts or the United States Soil Conservation
Service, as provided by a qualified individual or agency. The shore impact zone
for parcels with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel
to and 50 feet from the ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Animal feedlots must meet the following standards:
            1.   New feedlots must not be located in the shoreland of
watercourses or in bluff impact zones and must meet a minimum setback of 300
feet from the ordinary high water level of all public waters basins; and
            2.   Modi cations or expansions to existing feedlots that are
located within 300 feet of the ordinary high water level or within a bluff
impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the existing
ordinary high water level setback or encroachment on bluff impact zones.
      (3)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and
associated reforestation must be conducted consistent with the provisions of
the Minnesota Nonpoint Source Pollution Assessment Forestry and the provisions
of Water Quality in Forest Management "Best Management Practices in Minnesota."
      (4)   Extractive use standards.
         (a)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved, and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation, and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion, and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
         (b)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
      (5)   Mining of metallic minerals and peat. Mining of metallic minerals
and peat, as defined in M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51, shall be a permitted use
provided the provisions of M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51 are satisfied.
   (P)   Water; sewage.
      (1)   Water supply. Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the Minnesota
Department of Health and the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency. All properties
requesting a subdivision, new construction, living area expansion or properties
whose private supply of water needs to be replaced, shall be required to
connect to city public water, if available, within six months of the issuance
of a building permit.
      (2)   Sewage treatment. Any premises used for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment. All shoreland properties
requesting a subdivision, new construction, living area expansion or properties
whose private treatment system needs to be replaced, shall be required to hook-
up to the city's central sewer, if reasonably available. Private sewage
treatment shall be as follows:
         (a)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
standards outlined by §§
51.03 et seq.
         (b)   On-site sewage treatment systems must be set back from the
ordinary high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in §§
51.03 et seq.
         (c)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated and
upgraded in accordance with §§
51.03 et seq.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.054 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Authorization and purpose.
      (1)   Authorization. This section is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in M.S. Chapter 103F; Minnesota Rules,
Parts 6120.5000 – 6120.6200; the rules and regulations of the National Flood
Insurance Program (NFIP) in 44 CFR § 59 to 78; and the planning and zoning
enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter 462.
      (2)   Purpose.
         (a)   This section regulates development in the flood hazard areas of
the City of Saint Michael. These flood hazard areas are subject to periodic
inundation, which may result in loss of life and property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base.
It is the purpose of this section to promote public health, safety, and general
welfare by minimizing these losses and disruptions.
         (b)   This section is adopted in the public interest to promote sound
land use practices, and floodplains are a land resource to be developed in a
manner which will result in minimum loss of life and threat to health, and
reduction of private and public economic loss caused by flooding.
         (c)   This section is adopted to maintain eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program.
         (d)   This section is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
      (3)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
other private agreements. The standards in this section take precedence over
any less restrictive, conflicting local laws, ordinances, or codes. All other
ordinances inconsistent with this subchapter are hereby repealed to the extent
of the inconsistency only.
      (4)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. Not all flood risk is
mapped. Larger floods do occur and the flood height may be increased by man-
made or natural causes, such as ice jams or bridge openings restricted by
debris. This section does not create liability on the part of the City of Saint
Michael or its officers or employees for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this section or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
      (5)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this section shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
   (B)   Jurisdiction and districts.
      (1)   Lands to which this section applies. This section applies to all
lands within the jurisdiction of the City of Saint Michael within the
boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts.
         (a)   The Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts are
overlay districts. The standards imposed in the overlay districts are in
addition to any other requirements. In case of a conflict, the more restrictive
standards will apply.
         (b)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits
illustrated on the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the
Base Flood Elevation (BFE) shall be the governing factor in locating the outer
boundaries of the one-percent annual chance floodplain.
         (c)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will
be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and to submit technical evidence.
      (2)   Incorporation of maps by reference. The following maps together
with all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of the official zoning map and this section. The attached material
includes the Flood Insurance Study for Wright County, Minnesota, and
Incorporated Areas, and the Flood Insurance Rate map panels enumerated below,
all dated June 20, 2024, all prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency. These materials are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
               27171C0335D               27171C0360D
               27171C0345D               27171C0365D
               27171C0355D               27171C0370D
               27171C0358D               27171C0380D
               27171C0359D               27171C0385D
      (3)   Districts.
         (a)   Floodway District. Those areas within Zone AE delineated within
floodway areas as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps referenced in §
155.054(B)(2) above.
         (b)   Flood Fringe District. Those areas within Zone AE located
outside of the delineated floodway, as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps
referenced in §
155.054(B)(2) above. This district shall be extended laterally to the 0.2-
percent annual chance floodplain, where mapped.
         (c)   General Floodplain District. Those areas within Zone A areas
that do not have a floodway delineated as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps referenced in §
155.054(B)(2) above.
      (4)   Annexations. The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels referenced in §
155.054(B)(2) may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the City of Saint Michael at the time of adoption of this
section. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the City of
Saint Michael after the date of adoption of this section, the newly annexed
floodplain lands will be subject to the provisions of this section immediately
upon the date of annexation. Annexations into panels not referenced in §
155.054(B)(2) require ordinance amendment in accordance with §
155.054(M).
   (C)   Requirements for all Floodplain Districts.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator to verify compliance with all applicable standards outlined in
this section prior to the following uses or activities:
         (a)   The erection, addition, modi cation, rehabilitation, repair, or
alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance
requires a permit to determine if such work, either separately or in
conjunction with other planned work, constitutes a substantial improvement, as
specified in §
155.054(K) and §
155.054(L).
         (b)   The construction of a fence, pool, deck, or placement of
anything that may cause a potential obstruction. Farm fences, as defined in §
155.015(D) of this chapter, are not considered to be an obstruction, and as
such, do not require a permit.
         (c)   The change or expansion of a nonconforming use.
         (d)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
         (e)   The placement of fill, excavation, utilities, on-site sewage
treatment systems, or other service facilities.
         (f)   The storage of materials or equipment, in conformance with
provision (3)(b) below.
         (g)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including
stabilization projects or the construction of new or replacement dams, culverts
and bridges). A local permit is not required if a public waters work permit has
been obtained from the Department of Natural Resources, unless a significant
area above the ordinary high water level is also to be disturbed.
         (h)   Any other type of "development," as defined in §
155.015(D) of this chapter.
      (2)   No permit required. Certain uses or activities may be exempt from
obtaining a permit, such as planting a garden, farming, or other obviously
insignificant activities such as putting up a mailbox or flagpole. The
continuation of existing uses, when the associated activities do not encroach
further on the regulatory floodplain or trigger associated standards in this
section, do not require a permit.
      (3)   Minimum development standards.
         (a)   All development must:
            1.   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
            2.   Be constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood
damage;
            3.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
            4.   Be constructed with heating, ventilation, duct work, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities elevated at least up to the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE). Water, sewage, electrical, and
other utility lines below the RFPE shall be constructed so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within them during conditions of flooding;
            5.   Be reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need
to minimize flood damage;
            6.   Be assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
            7.   Not be detrimental to uses in adjoining areas; and
            8.   Not adversely affect the efficiency or restrict the flood
carrying capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system.
            9.   Ensure that any fill or other materials are protected from
erosion, discharge, and sediment entering surface waters by the ese of
vegetative cover or other methods as soon as possible.
         (b)   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE),
floodproofed, or protected by other measures as approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters,
such as sewage; sand; rock; wrecked and discarded equipment; dredged spoil;
municipal, agricultural or industrial waste; and other wastes as further
defined in M.S. § 115.01, are prohibited unless adequate safeguards approved by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency are provided. For projects not requiring
approvals by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, adequate safeguards must
be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
         (c)   Critical facilities shall be located so that the lowest floor is
not less than two feet above the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), or the 0.2% annual
chance flood elevation, whichever is higher.
   Table 5.1 Summary of Permitting Requirements for Structures
Structure Type Floodway Flood Fringe Standards*
Structure Type       Floodway            Flood Fringe        Standards*
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- on fill            and types allowed - Allowed with permit 155.369(3)(d)(ii)
                     with CUP
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- alt. elevation     and types allowed - Allowed with permit 155.369(3)(d)(iii)
methods              with CUP
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- wet floodproofing  and types allowed - Allowed with permit 155.369(3)(d)(i)
                     with CUP
Accessory structures Only specific uses                      §
- dry (watertight)   and types allowed - Allowed with permit 155.369(3)(d)(iv)
floodproofing        with CUP
                                                           
Residential - on     Not allowed         Allowed with permit §
fill                                                         155.369(B)(1)(a)
Residential - alt.   Not allowed         Allowed with CUP    §
elevation methods                                            155.369(D)
Residential - dry
(watertight)
floodproofing and/or Not allowed         Not allowed         N/A
basement
construction below
RFPE
                                                           
Non-residential -on  Not allowed         Allowed with permit §
fill                                                         155.369(B)(2)(a)
Non-residential -                                            §
alt. elevation       Not allowed         Allowed with permit 155.369(B)(2)(b)
methods
Non-residential -
dry (watertight)
floodproofing and/or Not allowed         Allowed with permit §
basement                                                     155.369(B)(2)
construction below
RFPE
 
   (D)   Floodway District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in floodway. Development allowed in the floodway
district is limited to that which has low flood damage potential and will not
obstruct flood flows, increase velocities, or increase the water surface
elevations of the one-percent annual chance flood. The following uses and
activities may be allowed with a permit, subject to the standards in division
(2) below:
         (a)   Agricultural uses, recreational uses, parking lots, loading
areas, airport landing strips, water control structures, navigational
facilities, as well as public open space uses.
         (b)   Roads, driveways, railroads, trails, bridges, and culverts.
         (c)   Public utility facilities and water-oriented industries which
must be in or adjacent to watercourses.
         (d)   Grading, filling, land alterations, and shoreline stabilization
projects.
         (e)   No structures, as defined in §
155.015(D) are allowed in the Floodway District, except structures accessory to
the uses detailed in divisions (1) and (3), and requires a CUP under (3)(b) of
this division (D).
         (f)   Levees or dikes intended to protect agricultural crops, provided
the top of the dike does not exceed the 10% annual chance flood event.
      (2)   Standards for permitted uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in §
155.054(C):
         (a)   The applicant must demonstrate that the development will not
result in any of the following during the one-percent annual chance flood:
cause a stage increase of 0.00 feet or greater, obstruct flood flows, or
increase velocities. This shall be demonstrated through hydrologic and
hydraulic analysis performed by a professional engineer or using other standard
engineering practices (e.g. projects that restore the site to the previous
cross-sectional area). This is commonly documented through a "no-rise
certification."
         (b)   Any development that would result in a stage increases greater
than 0.00 feet may only be allowed with a permit if the applicant has applied
for and received approval for a Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) in
accordance with 44 CFR § 65.12. Map revisions must follow the procedures in §
155.054(J)(1)(e) and §
155.054(M).
         (c)   Any development resulting in decreases to the water surface
elevation of the base flood identified in the Flood Insurance Study requires a
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) following the procedures in §
155.054(J)(1)(e) and §
155.054(M).
         (d)   Any development in the beds of public waters that will change
the course, current or cross section is required to obtain a public waters work
permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245 or a utility crossing license in
accordance with M.S. § 84.415, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit.
         (e)   Fill and other land alteration activities must offer minimal
obstruction to the flow of flood waters and be protected from erosion and
sediment entering surface waters by the use of vegetative cover, riprap or
other methods as soon as possible.
      (3)   Conditional uses in floodway. The following uses and activities may
be permitted as conditional uses, subject to the standards detailed in division
(4) below and following the procedure in §
155.094 Conditional Use Permit:
         (a)   Commercial extractive uses, and storage and stockpiling yards.
         (b)   Structures accessory to uses detailed in divisions (1)(a) and
(3)(a) of this division (D).
      (4)   Standards for conditional uses in floodway. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in §
155.054(C), §
155.054(C)(2) and §
155.054(J)(2):
         (a)   Extractive uses and storage of materials require the completion
of a site development and restoration plan, to be approved by the City of Saint
Michael.
         (b)   Accessory structures. Structures accessory to the uses detailed
in §
155.054(C)(1) and division (3)(a) above must be constructed and placed so as to
offer a minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters, and are subject to the
standards in division (E)(2)(c) of this section.
   (E)   Flood Fringe District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in flood fringe. Any uses or activities allowed in
any applicable underlying zoning districts may be allowed with a permit,
subject to the standards set forth in division (2) below.
      (2)   Standards for permitted uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed
in §
155.054(C):
         (a)   Residential structures.
            1.   Elevation on fill. Structures erected, constructed,
reconstructed, altered, or moved on fill within the Flood Fringe District shall
be placed so that the lowest floor, as defined in §
155.015(D) of this chapter, is elevated at least one foot above the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE). The finished fill elevation shall be at or
above the elevation associated with the base flood plus any stage increases
that result from designation of a floodway. Fill must extend at the same
elevation at least 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
Elevations must be certified by a registered professional engineer, land
surveyor or other qualified person designated by the Zoning Administrator.
Elevation methods alternative to these fill standards are subject to a
conditional use permit, as provided in division (3)(a) of this division (E)
(Figure 5.1). Construction of this type shall only be permitted in locations
where the natural ground is no lower than three feet below the base flood
elevation.
   Figure 5.1 Overview of Fill Standards For Residential Structures
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2168.png]
 
         (b)    Nonresidential principal structures. Nonresidential principal
structures must meet one of the following construction methods:
            1.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill, meeting
the standards in division (2)(a)1 above. Fill for nonresidential structures is
not required to be extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
            2.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may be elevated
using methods alternative to the fill standards in division (2)(a)1 above. Such
methods include the use of blocks, pilings (Figure 5.2), filled stem walls
(Figure 5.3), or internally-flooded enclosed areas (Figure 5.4) such as crawl
spaces, attached garages, or tuck under garages. Designs accommodating for
internally-flooded enclosed areas must be certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect, or meet or exceed the standards detailed in
FEMA Technical Bulletin 1, as amended, as well as the following standards:
               a.   The lowest floor, as defined in §
155.015(D) of this chapter, shall be elevated at or above the Regulatory Flood
Protection Elevation (RFPE).
               b.   The floor of the enclosed area must be at or above the
exterior grade on at least one side of the structure.
               c.   To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure,
there shall be a minimum of two openings below the base flood elevation on at
least two sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher
than one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not
less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, have a net area of not less than one square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and
exit of oodwaters without human intervention.
               d.   Internally flooded enclosed areas shall only be used for
the parking of vehicles, building access, or storage. Bathrooms and toilet
rooms shall not be allowed.
Figure 5.2. Blocks or pilings.         Figure 5.3. Filled stem walls.
      Figure 5.4. Internally flooded enclosed
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2170.png]
 
            3.    Dry floodproofing. Structures having watertight enclosed
basements or spaces below the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) must
meet the following standards:
               a.   Walls must be substantially impermeable to the passage of
water, with structural components having the capacity of resisting hydrostatic
and hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy, at least up to the Regulatory
Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE);
               b.   Must meet the standards of FEMA Technical Bulletin 3, as
amended; and
               c.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall be
required to certify that the design and methods of construction meet the
standards detailed in this division.
         (c)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures must meet the
following standards:
            1.   Structures shall not be designed or used for human habitation.
            2.   Structures will have a low flood damage potential.
            3.   Structures with fewer than two rigid walls, such as carports,
gazebos, and picnic pavilions, may be located at an elevation below the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation.
            4.   Structures with two or more rigid walls, must meet one of the
following construction methods:
               a.   Wet floodproofing. Structures may be floodproofed in a way
to accommodate internal flooding. Such structures shall constitute a minimal
investment not to exceed 576 square feet in size, one-story in height, and
shall only be used for parking and storage. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of two openings on at least two
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than
one foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less
than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and exit of floodwaters without human
intervention.
               b.   Elevation on fill. Structures may be elevated on fill,
meeting the standards in division (2)(a)1 of this division (E). Fill is not
required to be extended 15 feet beyond the outside limits of the structure.
               c.   Alternative elevation methods. Structures may have their
lowest floor elevated above the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE)
through methods alternative to the fill standards in divisions (2)(c)4.b and
(2)(b)2 of this division (E).
               d.   Dry floodproofing. Structures may be dry-floodproofed, or
watertight, meeting the standards in division (2)(b)3 of this division (E).
         (d)   All new principal structures must provide vehicular access no
lower than one foot below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE), unless a flood
warning/emergency evacuation plan has been approved by the City of Saint
Michael.
         (e)   Any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system acceptable to the City of Saint Michael
that provides adequate time for evacuation, or be designed to ensure that
within the area inundated during the base flood event, the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) is less than four.
         (f)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must meet the
standards of §
155.054(I) of this section.
      (3)   Conditional uses in flood fringe. The following uses and activities
may be permitted as conditional uses, subject to the standards in division (4)
below:
         (a)   Alternative elevation methods – residential structures.
Residential structures with their lowest floor elevated at least one foot above
the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) using methods alternative to
the fill requirements in division (2)(a)1 of this division (E).
      (4)   Standards for conditional uses in flood fringe. In addition to the
applicable standards detailed in §
155.054(C), §
155.054(E)(2) and §
155.054(J)(2):
         (a)   All residential structures with lowest floors elevated through
alternative elevation methods must meet the standards in division (2)(b)2 of
this division (E).
   (F)   General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Permitted uses in General Floodplain District.
         (a)   Until the floodway is delineated, allowable uses will be
restricted to those listed in the Floodway District, §
155.054(C).
         (b)   All other uses are subject to a floodway/flood fringe
determination as provided in division (4) below, in addition to the standards
provided in divisions (2) and (3) below. Permitted uses shall be determined as
follows:
            1.   If the development is determined to be in the Floodway
District, §
155.054(C) applies.
            2.   If the development is determined to be in the Flood Fringe
District, §
155.054(E) applies.
      (2)   Determining flood elevations.
         (a)   All development requires a determination of the Base Flood
Elevation (BFE). Exceptions to this requirement include projects that restore
the site to the previous cross-sectional area, such as shore stabilization or
culvert replacement projects. Base Flood Elevations (BFE) may be found using
best available data from any Federal, State, or other source (including MNDNR's
Lake & Flood Elevations Online (LFEO) Viewer).
         (b)   The Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) can be
determined by assuming a one- half (0.5) foot stage increase to accommodate for
future cumulative impacts. A stage increase does not need to be assumed along
lakes, wetlands, and other basins that are not a affected by velocities.
      (3)   Encroachment analysis.
         (a)   Encroachments due to development may not allow stage increases
more than one-half (0.5) foot at any point, unless through a map revision
following the procedures in §
155.054(J)(1)(e) and §
155.054(M). This evaluation must include the cumulative effects of previous
encroachments and must be documented with hydrologic and hydraulic analysis
performed by a professional engineer, or using other standard engineering
practices. A lesser water surface elevation increase than one-half (0.5) foot
is required if, due to the water surface level increase, increased flood damage
would potentially result.
         (b)   Alterations or changes that result in stage decreases are
allowed and encouraged.
      (4)   Standards for the analysis of floodway boundaries.
         (a)   Requirements for detailed studies. Any development, as requested
by the Zoning Administrator, shall be subject to a detailed study to determine
the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) and the limits of the Floodway
District. This determination must be consistent with the minimum standards for
hydrologic and hydraulic mapping standards and techniques, as detailed in
Minnesota Rules, part 6120.5600, Subp. 4 and FEMA Guidelines and Standards for
Flood Risk Analysis and Mapping, as revised. Additionally:
            1.   A regulatory floodway necessary to carry the discharge of the
one-percent annual chance flood must be selected without increasing the water
surface elevation more than one-half (0.5) foot at any point. This
determination should include the cumulative effects of previous encroachments.
A lesser water surface elevation increase than one-half (0.5) foot is required
if, due to the water surface level increase, increased flood damages would
potentially result; and
            2.   An equal degree of encroachment on both sides of the stream
within the reach must be assumed in computing floodway boundaries, unless
topography, existing development patterns, and comprehensive land use plans
justify a modi ed approach, as approved by the Department of Natural Resources.
         (b)   Other acceptable methods. For areas where a detailed study is
not available or required:
            1.   Development prohibited in floodways (e.g. most buildings)
requires a floodway/ flood fringe determination to verify the development is
within the flood fringe. This determination must be done by a professional
engineer or utilize other accepted engineering practices. The Department of
Natural Resources may also provide technical assistance and must approve any
alternative methods used to determine floodway boundaries.
            2.   For areas where the floodway has not been determined in and
along lakes, wetlands, and other basins, the following methodology may be used
as an alternative to division 1 above, provided these areas are not affected by
velocities and the lot is able to accommodate a building site above the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE):
               a.   All areas that are at or below the ordinary high water
level, as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 14, will be considered floodway,
and all areas below the Base Flood Elevation (BFE) but above the ordinary high
water level will be considered flood fringe, provided that within 25 feet of
the ordinary high water level, or within the Shore Impact Zone as identified in
the community's Shoreland ordinance, whichever distance is greater, land
alterations shall be restricted to:
               b.   The minimum required to accommodate beach areas, access
areas, and accessory structures as permitted, not to exceed a volume greater
than ten cubic yards; projects involving volumes exceeding ten cubic yards
require floodway/flood fringe determination in accordance with the procedures
in division (4)(b)1 of this division (F); and
               c.   The minimum required to accommodate shoreline stabilization
projects to correct an identified erosion problem as verified by a qualified
resource agency or the zoning administrator.
   (G)   Subdivision standards.
      (1)   Subdivisions. All subdivided land must meet the following
requirements. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this division.
         (a)   All lots within floodplain districts must be suitable for a
building site outside of the Floodway District.
         (b)   Subdivision of lands within the floodplain districts may not be
approved if the cost of providing governmental services would impose an
unreasonable economic burden on the City of Saint Michael.
         (c)   All subdivisions must have vehicular access both to the
subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below
the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE), unless a flood warning/
emergency evacuation plan has been approved by the City of Saint Michael.
         (d)   The Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries, the
Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE) and the required elevation of all
access roads must be clearly identified on all required subdivision drawings
and platting documents.
   (H)   Public and private utilities, service facilities, roads, bridges, and
railroads.
      (1)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges must be elevated to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE)
where such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area, or
where failure or interruption would result in danger to public health or
safety. Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower
elevation where failure or interruption of transportation services would not
endanger the public health or safety. All public transportation facilities
should be designed to minimize increases in flood elevations.
      (2)   Public utilities. All utilities such as gas, electrical, sewer, and
water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be elevated and/or
floodproofed to the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE), be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage and be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters. All public utilities should be designed to minimize
increases in flood elevations. New solid waste management facilities, as
defined in Minnesota Rules, part 7035.0300, are prohibited in the one-percent
annual chance floodplain. Water supply systems are subject to the provisions in
Minnesota Rules, part 4725.4350.
      (3)   Private on-site water supply, individual sewage treatment systems,
and other service facilities. Private facilities shall be subject to applicable
provisions detailed in division (2) above. In addition, new or replacement on-
site sewage treatment systems are to be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during times of flooding, shall not be located in a
designated floodway, and are subject to the provisions in Minnesota Rules,
parts 7080.2270.
   (I)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles.
      (1)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
are subject to applicable standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
         (a)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be placed and
elevated in compliance with §
155.054(E) of this section and must be securely anchored to a system that
resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors.
         (b)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing
manufactured home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in
division (G) of this section.
      (2)   Recreational vehicles. New recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds and expansions to existing recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain district. Recreational vehicles
placed in existing recreational vehicle parks, campgrounds, or lots of record
in the floodplain must either:
         (a)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in division (1)
above; or
         (b)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
            1.   The vehicle must be fully licensed.
            3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
            4.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe
District, provided they do not hinder the removal of the vehicle should
flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in §
155.054(C) and §
155.054(E)(2)(c).
   (J)   Administration.
      (1)   Duties. A Zoning Administrator or other official must administer
and enforce this chapter.
         (a)   Permit application requirements. Permit applications must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The permit application must include the
following, as applicable:
            1.   A site plan showing all existing or proposed buildings,
structures, service facilities, potential obstructions, and pertinent design
features having an influence on the permit.
            2.   Location and detail of grading, fill, or storage of materials.
            3.   Copies of any required local, state or federal permits or
approvals.
            4.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
         (b)   Recordkeeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain applicable
records in perpetuity documenting:
            1.   All certifications for dry floodproofing and alternative
elevation methods, where applicable.
            2.   Analysis of no-rise in the Floodway District, as detailed in §
155.054(C)(2)(a), and encroachment analysis ensuring no more than one-half foot
of rise in the General Floodplain District, as detailed in divisions (G)(2)(b)
and (G)(3)(a) of this section.
            3.   Final elevations, as applicable, detailing the elevation to
which structures and improvements to structures are constructed or
floodproofed. Elevations shall be determined by an engineer, architect,
surveyor or other qualified individual, as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            4.   Substantial damage and substantial improvement determinations,
as detailed in §
55.054(K)(1)(c), including the cost of improvements, repairs, and market value.
            5.   All variance actions, including justification for their
issuance, and must report such variances as requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
         (c)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or
nonconforming use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in
any manner until a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the
Zoning Administrator stating that the finished fill and building floor
elevations or other flood protection measures are in compliance with the
requirements of this section.
         (d)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing
any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator
must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to
work in public waters in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as
adequate notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to FEMA.
         (e)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. Where physical changes affecting flooding conditions may
increase or decrease the water surface elevation of the base flood, the City of
Saint Michael must notify FEMA of the changes in order to obtain a Letter of
Map Revision (LOMR), by submitting a copy of the relevant technical or
scientific data as soon as practicable, but no later than six months after the
date such supporting information becomes available. Within the General
Floodplain District, a map revision is only required if development results in
stage increases greater than 0.5 feet.
      (2)   Conditional uses and variances.
         (a)   Process.
            1.   An application for a conditional use permit will be processed
and reviewed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
            2.   An application for a variance to the provisions of this
subchapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with M.S. § 462.357,
Subd. 6(2) and this section.
         (b)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria must be satisfied:
            1.   Variances must not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
            2.   Variances from the provisions of this subchapter may only be
issued by a community upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               c.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization
of the public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances from the provisions in this section may only be
issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
            4.   Variances must be consistent with the general purpose of these
standards and the intent of applicable provisions in state and federal law.
            5.   Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood
protection, but no variance shall permit a lesser degree of flood protection
than the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE).
            6.   The Zoning Administrator must notify the applicant for a
variance in writing that:
               a.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below
the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance
up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
               b.   Such construction below the base flood level increases
risks to life and property. Notification must be maintained with a record of
all variance actions.
         (c)   Considerations for approval. The City of Saint Michael must
consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this chapter in
granting variances and conditional use permits, including the following:
            1.   The potential danger to life and property due to increased
flood heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
            2.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
            3.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         (d)   Conditions of approval. The City of Saint Michael may attach
such conditions to the granting of variances and conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this section. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
            1.   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
            2.   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
            3.   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction.
            4.   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
      (3)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
         (a)   All notices of public hearings to consider variances or
conditional uses under this section must be sent via electronic mail to the
Department of Natural Resources respective area hydrologist at least ten days
before the hearings. Notices of hearings to consider subdivisions/plats must
include copies of the subdivision/plat.
         (b)   A copy of all decisions granting variances and conditional uses
under this section must be sent via electronic mail to the Department of
Natural Resources respective area hydrologist within ten days of final action.
   (K)   Nonconformities.
      (1)   Continuance of nonconformities. A use, structure, or occupancy of
land which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this section, but
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this section, may be
continued subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Within the floodway and general floodplain districts when a site
has been determined to be located in the floodway following the procedures in §
155.054(F)(3), or when the floodway has not been delineated, any expansion or
enlargement of uses or structures is prohibited.
         (b)   Within all districts, any addition, modi cation, rehabilitation,
repair, or alteration shall be in conformance with the provisions of this
section, shall not increase the flood damage potential or increase the degree
of obstruction to flood flows, and where applicable, must be protected to at
least the Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation (RFPE).
         (c)   If any nonconforming structure is determined to be substantially
damaged or substantially improved based on the procedures in division (2) below
it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
section. Any structures located outside the one-percent annual chance
floodplain are exempt from this provision.
         (d)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming
structure, is discontinued for more than one year, any future use of the
premises must conform to this section.
         (e)   If any nonconforming structure has utilities, electrical, or
mechanical equipment damaged due to flooding, it must be rebuilt in conformance
with the elevation requirements in §
155.054(C)(3)(a)4 to the greatest extent practicable. This requirement shall
apply regardless of the determinations made in division (2) below.
      (2)   Substantial improvement and substantial damage determinations.
Prior to issuing any permits for additions, modifications, rehabilitations,
repairs, alterations, or maintenance to nonconforming structures, the Zoning
Administrator is required to determine if such work constitutes substantial
improvement or repair of a substantially damaged structure. A determination
must be made in accordance with the following procedures:
         (a)   Estimate the market value of the structure. In the case of
repairs, the market value of the structure shall be the market value before the
damage occurred and before any restoration or repairs are made.
         (b)   Estimate the cost of the project. The property owner shall
accommodate for inspection, and furnish other documentation needed by the
zoning administrator to evaluate costs.
            1.   Improvement costs shall be comprised of the market rate of all
materials and labor, as well as the costs of all ordinary maintenance and
upkeep carried out over the past one year.
            2.   Costs to repair damages shall be comprised of the market rate
of all materials and labor required to restore a building to its pre-damaged
condition regardless of the work proposed, as well as associated improvement
costs if structure is being restored beyond its pre-damaged condition.
      (3)   Compare the cost of the improvement, repairs, or combination
thereof to the estimated market value of the structure and determine whether
the proposed work constitutes substantial improvement or repair of a
substantially damaged structure, as defined in §
155.015(D) of this chapter.
         (a)   For the purposes of determining whether the proposed work would
constitute substantial improvement, the evaluation shall also include all
rehabilitations, additions, or other improvements completed since the community
has adopted oodplain standards impacting this structure.
         (b)   If any nonconforming structure experiences a repetitive loss, as
defined in §
155.015(D) of this chapter, it shall be considered substantially damaged and
must not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this
section.
      (4)   Based on this determination, the Zoning Administrator shall prepare
a determination letter and notify the property owner accordingly. Structures
determined to be substantially damaged or substantially improved may not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this section.
   (L)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Uses in violation of the section. Every structure, fill, deposit,
or other use placed or maintained in the floodplain in violation of this
section shall be considered a public nuisance.
      (2)   Civil remedies. The creation of a public nuisance may be enjoined
and the maintenance of a public nuisance under this section may be abated by an
action brought by the City of Saint Michael or the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
      (3)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this subchapter
constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. The Zoning
Administrator may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to it
including but not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-fact
permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance. The City of Saint Michael must
act in good faith to enforce these official controls and to correct section
violations to the extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (M)   Amendments.
      (1)   Amendments. Any revisions to the floodplain maps by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or annexations of new map panels require an
ordinance amendment to update the map references in §
155.054(B)(2) of this section.
      (2)   Required approval. All amendments to this section must be submitted
to the Department of Natural Resources for review and approval prior to
adoption, for compliance with state and federal rules and requirements. The
floodplain ordinance shall not be considered valid until approved.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
§ 155.061 PRINCIPAL RESIDENTIAL USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Assisted living facility; long-term or transitional care facility.
      (1)   The site shall be served by an arterial or collector street of
sufficient capacity to accommodate traffic which will be generated.
      (2)   Side yards shall be double the minimum requirements established for
the applicable zoning district and shall be screened in compliance with §
155.076.
   (B)   Dwelling, attached townhouse or rowhouse.
      (1)   No single structure shall contain more than eight dwelling units.
      (2)   Individual units shall be at least 20 feet wide.
      (3)   No garage shall extend the full width of any individual unit. The
front façade of a townhouse or rowhouse unit shall include a window and/or
door.
      (4)   Documents shall be recorded on all properties abutting a common lot
line which:
         (a)   Provide access to the abutting property for the adjacent
property owner and/or his or her representative for the purpose of
construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of either side of the
property; and
         (b)   Provide for necessary encroachments for footings, eaves, and
special structures.
   (C)   Dwelling, single-unit detached.
      (1)   Single-unit detached dwellings shall have a minimum width of 24
feet.
      (2)   All single-unit detached dwellings shall be erected upon a full
foundation except for post frame construction in the A-1, General Agriculture
Zoning District. This foundation shall be located underneath the entire
structure including any attached garage and shall comply with the State
Building Code.
         (a)   A foundation is not required under the following elements which
may be placed on pier footings:
            1.   Open decks;
            2.   Covered porches, provided that floor height is three feet or
less above ground level;
            3.   Covered porches with a floor height exceeding three feet above
ground level, provided that such porch does not exceed 300 square feet in area
or if larger than 300 square feet, engineering documentation is required; and
         (b)   Additionally, the perimeter foundation need not be continuous in
the area of an elevated breezeway or similar architectural feature that
connects the home to a garage or similar structure.
      (3)   Garage requirements. Within the residential zoning districts, the
following requirements for garages shall apply:
         (a)   The maximum garage width facing a public right-of-way shall not
exceed 45 feet.
         (b)   The first floor living area of the principal structure facing
the front yard shall be at least 50% of the width of the attached garage.
Portions of an attached garage may be excluded from this garage frontage
calculation if designed to appear as living area and not directly accessible to
the outside, as reviewed and approved by the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   For lots less than 65 feet wide within the R-1A District, the
minimum width of the first floor living area of the principal structure as
stated in division (b) above may be decreased if all of the following standards
are met:
            1.   No two homes located directly next to one another, directly
across the street, or within the same cul-de-sac shall be of the same design,
design detail, or have the same color scheme on the exterior.
            2.   The first floor roofline shall be interrupted by architectural
features such as a dormer or second floor living space.
            3.   The garage door height shall not exceed a height of eight
feet.
            4.   A maximum of 20 square feet of living space above the garage
may extend further forward than the garage.
            5.   The garage shall be alley-loaded or shall utilize three of the
following architectural features:
               a.   Entryways and/or indoor or exterior living space shall not
be recessed more than four feet behind the front of the garage;
               b.   The dwelling shall be constructed with multiple roof
planes;
               c.   Front-facing gables shall be a minimum roof pitch of 7/12.
All other roof types excluding dormers and porch roofs shall be a pitch of at
least 6/12;
               d.   The entryway shall be marked by an architecture feature
such as columns, arches, or accent windows; or
               e.   At least two types of building materials shall be used on
the front façade. These building materials may include stone, stucco, brick,
lap siding, shakes, and board and batten.
   (D)   Dwelling, twinhome.
      (1)   Individual units shall be at least 20 feet wide.
      (2)   No garage shall extend the full width of any individual unit. The
front façade of a townhouse or rowhouse unit shall include a window and/or
door.
      (3)   Documents shall be recorded on all properties abutting a common lot
line which:
         (a)   Provide access to the abutting property for the adjacent
property owner and/or his or her representative for the purpose of
construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance of either side of the
property; and
         (b)   Provide for necessary encroachments for footings, eaves, and
special structures.
   (E)   Manufactured home park.
      (1)   Manufactured homes shall comply with the applicable State of
Minnesota laws and regulations on manufactured housing and manufactured home
parks, including but not limited to, M.S. Chapter 327 and any applicable rules
and regulations of the Minnesota Department of Health.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Uses permitted within the park shall include only manufactured
homes, storm shelters, recreational facilities, and accessory uses to the
manufactured homes, including common laundering facilities and activities
necessary for the operation and maintenance of the park.
         (b)   Accessory uses not listed in division (1) may be allowed by
conditional use permit.
         (c)   There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere in the manufactured
home park.
      (3)   No manufactured home shall be located closer than 50 feet to the
right-of-way line of an arterial or collector street or 25 feet from the right-
of-way line of all other public highways, roads, or streets. A manufactured
home shall be located no closer to the park boundary than 20 feet. A landscaped
buffer shall be provided along any collector or arterial roadway as specified
in §
155.034(C).
      (4)   Only one manufactured home shall be located on an individual lot or
space. An open area shall be provided on each manufactured home lot to ensure
privacy, adequate natural light and ventilation to the home and to provide
sufficient area for outdoor uses essential to the manufactured home. The
maximum lot coverage for the manufactured home, accessory structures, and
driveway shall be 50%.
      (5)   Except for public, community, and utility structures, the maximum
height of principal and accessory structures shall not exceed one and one-half
stories or 20 feet, whichever is less.
      (6)   All streets, utilities, stormwater, and sidewalks shall be designed
to meet the specifications of the City Engineering Guidelines.
      (7)   A suitable storm shelter facility shall be constructed completely
below ground level and outside all flood prone areas and shall provide a
minimum of ten square feet of shelter floor area for each lot in the park.
      (8)   The park shall provide at least 400 square feet of open space per
manufactured home that is available for the exclusive use of park residents.
The open space areas shall be of appropriate design and provided with
appropriate recreational equipment.
      (9)   All manufactured homes shall be kept in good repair, shall remain
in a sanitary and structurally sound condition, and shall conform to the
requirements of Minnesota Statutes and U.S. HUD.
      (10)   No manufactured home shall be erected on a lot except upon a
manufactured home pad that shall meet all applicable Uniform Building Code
(city building code) standards. Each pad shall have a minimum dimension equal
to the dimensions of the manufactured home to be placed on the lot.
      (11)   All manufactured homes shall be equipped with an anchoring system
approved by the Minnesota Department of Administration (Building Code
division). The frame, wheels, crawl space, storage areas, and utility
connections of all manufactured homes shall be concealed from view by skirting
made of durable all-weather construction material that is consistent with the
exterior of the manufactured home. Installation of the skirting must be
completed within 60 days of the placement of the manufactured home on the pad.
No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection of plumbing and
electrical facilities.
      (12)   Dwelling units of conventional construction shall not be permitted
on a manufactured home site, except for a manager's office and residence.
      (13)   Off-street parking spaces shall be provided to minimize the
disruption of traffic movement. Driveway area shall not be located on the lot
such that the remaining open space area of each lot is substantially reduced in
size. Each lot shall be required to have two off-street parking spaces. These
spaces may be provided on the individual lot or in parking bays within 100 feet
of the lot they are intended to serve. Parking bays shall not be permitted to
be located on any public street within the park. On-lot spaces may be provided
in tandem.
   (F)   Open space development.
      (1)   The development shall be at least 30 acres in size.
      (2)   At least 25% of the development shall be preserved/established as
open space or park ("Open Space") as follows:
         (a)   An emphasis is placed on preserving lakeshore, creeks, wooded
areas, linking open space/trail corridors, and prominent views/entry points;
         (b)   Wetlands and right-of-way areas shall not count towards the
required open space;
         (c)   All open space is to be owned by a Homeowner's Association
(HOA). In special circumstances, the city may, at its discretion, choose to own
the open space within an open space development;
         (d)   There shall be no park dedication credit for any of the open
space owned by the HOA. Park dedication credit shall be given to any land
dedicated to the city over and above the minimum requirement; and
         (e)   Permanent conservation or use easements must be recorded against
open space to be owned by the HOA in a form approved by city, to ensure proper
maintenance and protection, including providing the city the right to maintain
and assess said costs to all lots in the subdivisions.
      (3)   All lots within the development shall be part of a private
community septic system (PCSS) with the following requirements:
         (a)   Developer shall enter into an agreement with city allowing,
among other things, the city to conduct regular inspections of the PCCS, and to
repair or replace the PCCS as determined necessary by the city and assess the
costs to each contributing lot in the subdivision;
         (b)   Designed to accommodate future central sanitary sewer in terms
of layout, location of PCCS, establishment of easements, and other factors as
determined by the city; and
         (c)   Agree to hook up to city sanitary sewer when available and pay
standard assessments and fees.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.062 PRINCIPAL INSTITUTIONAL USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adult education and training facility.
      (1)   The land area containing such use must abut a commercial or
industrial use or district.
      (2)   Driveway access shall be directly from a road designated as a
collector or arterial road in the city's comprehensive plan.
      (3)   The land area containing such use must be at least five acres and
no more than ten acres.
      (4)   Building, driveway and parking setback dimensions shall be double
those of the underlying zoning district where abutting a residentially planned
area.
      (5)   When abutting a residential use or residential district, the site
shall be screened and landscaped in compliance with §
155.076 of this chapter.
      (6)   A minimum of 50% of the site shall be landscaped in compliance with
§
155.076.
      (7)   Buildings shall be designed to reflect a residential character.
      (8)   There shall be no accessory structures permitted.
      (9)   No overhead doors shall face any public right-of-way.
      (10)   There shall be a maximum of one overhead/garage door for each
10,000 square feet of land area of the parcel containing such use.
      (11)   Buildings and uses with the potential for noise, air, odor, smoke
or vibration impacts, as determined by the city, must be set back a minimum of
250 feet from any residential use or district.
      (12)   Retail or commercial operations shall be conducted in association
with the facility.
      (13)   Outdoor storage is prohibited.
      (14)   For uses with capacity for greater than 250 persons in the
assembly area(s) utilized at the same time - with capacity based on the
Building Code adopted by the city - a traffic impact study shall be conducted
by the city's traffic consultant at the expense of the applicant. The traffic
impact study shall assess the potential short-term and long-term traffic
impacts associated with the proposed use on the site itself and on adjacent
roadways. The traffic impact study shall identify appropriate mitigation and/or
recommendations to offset projected impacts, which the user shall be
responsible for implementing at its sole cost.
      (15)   The user operates the assembly consistent with an operations plan
approved by the city that shall prescribe typical start and end times for the
primary activity or activities constituting the use, in addition to accessory
and auxiliary uses. The operations plan shall be based on the traffic impact
study, nearby land uses and other related factors, and incorporated into a
conditional use permit agreement.
      (16)   Any modification of an existing use which intensifies the use and/
or surpasses the 250-person occupancy threshold shall require an amended
conditional use permit and shall be subject to provisions (A)(14) and (15)
above.
   (B)   Assembly uses.
      (1)   The minimum size site is three acres.
      (2)   The use shall be located along an improved (i.e. blacktop or
concrete) collector or arterial roadway as identified in the city's
comprehensive plan, but in no case shall it have direct access to an arterial
roadway.
      (3)   When adjacent to or across the street from a property zoned
residential or designated residential in the comprehensive plan, the following
apply:
         (a)   Side, rear and parking setbacks shall be double the standard
requirement, but no less than 30 feet.
         (b)   Screening shall be provided in compliance with §
155.076.
         (c)   A minimum of 25% green space shall be provided.
      (4)   All service areas and loading docks shall be located behind the
front facade line of the principal structure and regulated where applicable by
§
155.074.
      (5)   For assembly uses with capacity for greater than 250 persons in the
assembly area(s) utilized at the same time - with capacity calculated according
to the Building Code adopted by the city - a traffic impact study shall be
conducted by the city's traffic consultant at the expense of the applicant.
         (a)   The traffic impact study shall assess the potential short-term
and long-term traffic impacts associated with the proposed use on the site
itself and on adjacent roadways.
         (b)   The traffic impact study shall identify appropriate mitigation
and/or recommendations to offset projected impacts which the user shall be
responsible for implementing at its sole cost.
      (6)   The user shall operate the use consistent with an operations plan
approved by the city that shall prescribe typical start and end times for the
primary activity or activities constituting the use (e.g. worship service
times), in addition to accessory and auxiliary uses. The operations plan shall
be based on the traffic impact study (if any), nearby land uses and other
related factors, and incorporated into a conditional use permit agreement.
      (7)   Any modification of an existing use which intensifies the use and/
or surpasses the 250-person occupancy threshold shall require an amended
conditional use permit and shall be subject to provisions (B)(5) and (6) above.
   (C)   Cemetery.
      (1)   The use shall abut an arterial or collector street as designated in
the city's comprehensive plan and access shall be achieved without conducting
significant traffic on local residential streets.
      (2)   Any crematory shall be set back at least 600 feet from any lot
line.
      (3)   Direct views from all abutting residential property shall be
buffered in accordance with §
155.076.
      (4)   All accessory buildings used for maintenance purposes shall match
in color and material.
   (D)   Day care center.
      (1)   In zoning districts where single-unit dwellings are permitted, a
licensed day care facility serving 12 or fewer people is allowed.
      (2)   In zoning districts where multi-unit dwellings (two or more units
in one structure) are permitted, a licensed day care facility serving 13-16
people is allowed.
      (3)   Day care centers with a licensed capacity to serve more than 250
persons at one time:
         (a)   The use shall be located along an improved (i.e. blacktop or
concrete) collector or arterial roadway as identified in the city's
transportation plan, but in no case shall it have direct access to an arterial
roadway.
         (b)   When adjacent to, or across the street from, a property zoned
residential or designated residential in the comprehensive plan, the following
apply:
            1.   Side, rear and parking setbacks shall be double the standard
requirement, but no less than 30 feet.
            2.   Screening is provided in compliance with §
155.076.
            3.   A minimum of 25% green space shall be provided.
         (c)   A traffic impact study shall be conducted by the city's traffic
consultant at the expense of the applicant. The traffic impact study shall
assess the potential short-term and long-term traffic impacts associated with
the proposed use on the site itself and on adjacent roadways. The traffic
impact study shall identify appropriate mitigation and/or recommendations to
offset projected impacts, which the user shall be responsible for implementing
at its sole cost.
         (d)   The user operates the day care center consistent with an
operations plan approved by the city that shall prescribe typical start and end
times for the primary activity or activities constituting the use (e.g. motion
picture showings, worship service times, or other assembly function), in
addition to accessory uses. The operations plan shall be based on the traffic
impact study, nearby land uses and other related factors, and incorporated into
a conditional use permit agreement.
   (E)   Government administrative or service use.
      (1)   Utility buildings and structures shall be screened from view of the
public right-of- way and adjacent properties.
   (F)   Pre-schools with a licensed capacity to serve more than 250 persons at
one time.
      (1)   The use shall be located along an improved (i.e. blacktop or
concrete) collector or arterial roadway as identified in the city's
transportation plan, but in no case shall it have direct access to an arterial
roadway.
      (2)   When adjacent to, or across the street from, a property zoned
residential or designated residential in the comprehensive plan, the following
apply:
         (a)   Side, rear and parking setbacks shall be double the standard
requirement, but no less than 30 feet.
         (b)   Screening is provided in compliance with §
155.076.
         (c)   A minimum of 25% green space shall be provided.
      (3)   A traffic impact study shall be conducted by the city's traffic
consultant at the expense of the applicant. The traffic impact study shall
assess the potential short-term and long-term traffic impacts associated with
the proposed use on the site itself and on adjacent roadways. The traffic
impact study shall identify appropriate mitigation and/or recommendations to
offset projected impacts, which the user shall be responsible for implementing
at its sole cost.
      (4)   The user operates the pre-school consistent with an operations plan
approved by the city that shall prescribe typical start and end times for the
primary activity or activities constituting the use (e.g. motion picture
showings, worship service times, or other assembly function), in addition to
accessory uses. The operations plan shall be based on the traffic impact study,
nearby land uses and other related factors, and incorporated into a conditional
use permit agreement.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.063 PRINCIPAL COMMERCIAL USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Adult uses.
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241 are
prohibited.
      (2)   Adult uses shall be prohibited from locating in any building which
is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (3)   Adult uses shall be prohibited from locating in any place which is
also used to dispense or consume alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   The lot upon which a principal adult use is located shall be a
minimum of 300 feet, measured in a straight line, from the property line of any
of the following:
         (a)   Residentially zoned property or residential uses;
         (b)   A licensed day-care center;
         (c)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high, or senior high school;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A public park;
         (f)   Another principal adult use;
         (g)   An on-sale liquor, wine, or beer establishment; or
         (h)   A place of worship.
      (5)   Principal adult use activities shall be classified as one use. No
two principal adult uses shall
be located in the same building or upon the same property.
      (6)   A principal adult use shall adhere to the following signing
regulations:
         (a)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the type of business which is being conducted;
         (b)   Signs shall not contain material classified as advertising; and
         (c)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of size and number for
the district in which they are located.
      (7)   Principal adult use activities shall be prohibited at any public
show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical, or other performance or
exhibition presented to the general public where minors are permitted.
   (B)   Auto repair, major.
      (1)   In the case of the premises adjoining a residential zoning
district, required side and rear yard setbacks shall be not less than 50 feet
for a structure and 20 feet for any parking or storage area.
      (2)   All waste materials, debris, refuse, junk or damaged vehicles and
parts shall be either kept entirely within an enclosed building, or completely
screened from public streets and adjacent properties in accordance with §§
155.071 through
155.078.
      (3)   No unlicensed or inoperable vehicles may be stored on the property.
   (C)   Cannabis business.
      (1)   Any cannabis business must provide evidence of a state license
under M.S. § 342.14 and all applicable state laws and regulations.
      (2)   Any cannabis retail business must be registered with the city in
accordance with the City Code.
      (3)   No cannabis business shall be located within 1,000 feet of a school
or within 500 feet of a daycare, residential treatment facility, or public park
with an attraction that is regularly used by minors. This distance shall be
measured from property line to property line.
      (4)   Cannabis businesses are limited to the retail sale of cannabis,
cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m., seven days a
week.
      (5)   Cannabis manufacturing, wholesale, and transportation facilities
shall install and maintain enhanced ventilation systems designed to prevent
detection of cannabis odor from adjacent properties and the public right-of-
way. Such systems shall include the following features:
         (a)   Installation of activated carbon filters on all exhaust outlets
to the building exterior;
         (b)   Location of exhaust outlets a minimum of 30 feet from the
property line and ten feet above finished grade; and
         (c)   Maintenance of negative air pressure within the facility; or
         (d)   An alternative odor control system approved by the Building
Official based on a report by a mechanical engineer licensed in the State of
Minnesota, demonstrating that the alternative system will control odor equally
or better than the required activated carbon filtration system.
   (D)   Off-site service business.
      (1)   The maximum size building occupancy is 5,000 square feet.
      (2)   At least 50% of the floor area specific to the off-site business
must be dedicated to office, retail, or showroom uses and be open to the public
a minimum of 40 hours per week.
      (3)   The office, retail, and showroom uses and principal building
entrance shall be oriented to the highest classification road in a manner
similar to nearby commercial users.
      (4)   All other business activities within the building shall be limited
to storage and assembly and shall not create any noise audible from the
exterior of the building.
      (5)   All service and delivery vehicles shall be parked in the rear of
the lot or, for corner or through lots, locate on the opposite side of the
building from the higher classification road.
      (6)   Service and delivery vehicles are limited in number to no more than
one per 400 square feet of building occupancy, rounded to the nearest whole
number.
      (7)   All service and delivery vehicles shall fit within standard parking
stall dimensions.
      (8)   Service and delivery vehicle parking areas shall be screened with
landscaping if adjacent to an existing or planned residential use or a public
roadway.
      (9)   The height of the building shall be limited to no more than the
height of the tallest structure on any adjacent properties, or no more than 18
feet if no adjacent property has a structure at the time of application.
   (E)   Pawn shops as regulated by
Chapter 115.
   (F)   Pet stores, provided that:
      (1)   All activity shall be within a completely enclosed building with
soundproofing and odor control.
      (2)   Animals shall not cause annoyance or disturbance to another person
by frequent howling, yelping, barking or other kinds of noise. This division
shall only apply when the noise has continued for a ten-minute period. This
requirement shall apply to the cumulative barking from the kennel, including
one or several dogs.
      (3)   Outdoor kennels are prohibited.
      (4)   The owner of the pet store shall maintain a valid city commercial
kennel license and shall comply with all applicable city and state building,
health and maintenance standards.
      (5)   The pet store shall be subject to a reasonable limitation on the
total number of animals for the size of the facilities. This limitation shall
be determined by the city based on the size of the property upon which the use
occurs, the uses of adjoining properties, and the existence of buffering and
other applicable factors as determined by the city.
   (G)   Vehicle fuel, service, or wash.
      (1)   Stacking space is constructed to accommodate that number of
vehicles which can be washed during a maximum 30-minute period; and
      (2)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise.
      (3)   No full service car wash may be located adjacent to or within 300
feet of any residential use or residentially zoned or guided property, unless
completely screened by an intervening building or located across an arterial or
major collector roadway from residentially zoned or guided property.
      (4)   Canopy signage associated with this use shall follow the
requirements in §§
155.081 through
155.087.
   (H)   Vehicle sales and rental.
      (1)   A minimum lot area of two acres is required.
      (2)   The ratio of the building footprint to the sales lot size shall be
a minimum ratio of 1:2.
      (3)   All outdoor sales areas shall be in the side and/or rear yards, and
no closer to the front setback than the main structure on the site.
      (4)   Side and rear setbacks:
         (a)   In the case of a premises adjoining an agricultural and/or
residential zoning district, side and rear yard building setbacks shall be not
less than 50 feet.
         (b)   In the case of premises adjoining a commercial, industrial, and/
or public/institutional
zoning district, side and rear yard building setbacks shall be not less than 30
feet.
      (5)   Land along all public street areas shall be maintained as
landscaped green areas.
      (6)   No outdoor speakers may be used at any time.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.064 PRINCIPAL INDUSTRIAL USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Self-storage facility.
      (1)   The following standards shall apply for any parcel of land
abutting, or within 100 feet of State Highway 241 or the northwest corner of
C.S.A.H. 36/Ogren Avenue NE (St. Michael 194 Business Park):
         (a)   The self-storage facility must be a multi-story building.
         (b)   The self-storage facility must be climate controlled.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.065 PRINCIPAL AGRICULTURAL USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Animal-related uses.
      (1)   Any building in which animals are kept, whether a roofed shelter or
enclosed structure, shall be located a distance of 100 feet or more from any
lot line.
      (2)   The animals shall, at a minimum, be kept in an enclosed pen or
corral of sufficient height and strength to retain such animals. Said pen or
corral may not be located closer than 100 feet from a lot.
      (3)   The regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency are
complied with.
      (4)   In all residential districts, domestic animal enclosures shall not
be permitted in the front yard or in the case of a corner lot, the area between
the street right-of-way and the minimum required building side yard setback
line. Any domestic animal enclosure shall not be located closer than ten feet
to any property line and not closer than 25 feet to any dwelling unit other
than on the owner's property. No such enclosure shall exceed 120 square feet.
   (B)   Feedlots.
      (1)   Title. This section shall be known, cited and referred to as the
St. Michael Feedlot Ordinance.
      (2)   Statutory authority. This section is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in M.S. §§ 103B.301 through 103B.335,
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules, Parts 7020.0100 through 7020.1900,
and M.S. § 412.221, Subd. 32.
      (3)   Intent and purpose.
         (a)   The production of farm animals and other agricultural products
is an important part of the history, environment, and economy of the city.
Livestock, poultry, dairy products, and other agricultural commodities are
produced within the city for consumption in the state, the United States, and
foreign countries. The continued health of the agricultural community and the
production of these products are essential to the economic well-being of the
city and its residents.
         (b)   The city also contains a wealth of natural resources including
an abundance of surface and ground water. These resources must be protected
from pollution to ensure the health of the public and to maintain safe, high-
quality water for recreational, residential, agricultural, and commercial use.
The following regulations have been established to protect natural resources
and the quality of life in the city while recognizing the importance of animal
agriculture and the beneficial uses of animal manure in the production of
agricultural crops.
         (c)   It is the intent and purpose of this section to allow for the
continued production of agricultural commodities and to maintain a healthy
agricultural community within the city while ensuring that animal feedlots and
animal wastes are properly managed to protect the health of the public and the
city's natural resources.
         (d)   Therefore, this section is adopted for the purpose of:
            1.   Establishing a procedure for the permitting of feedlots.
            2.   Regulating the location, development, operation and expansion
of feedlots.
            3.   Promoting best farm management practices.
            4.   Protecting ground and surface water resources.
            5.   Minimizing environmental problems.
      (4)   General provisions.
         (a)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this section shall apply to
all the areas within the corporate limits of the city.
         (b)   Scope.
            1.   From and after the effective date of this section and
subsequent amendments, the use of all land and every building or portion of a
building used for a feedlot or as part of a feedlot in the city shall be in
conformity with the provisions of this section. Pre-existing structures which
are not in conformity with the setback and area provisions of this section, but
were in conformity with the standards established by the Zoning Ordinance and
the County Zoning Ordinance, when applicable, shall be allowed if a potential
pollution hazard does not exist and the registration procedures in division (G)
are complied with.
            2.   A feedlot that is non-conforming because of excessive animal
unit numbers, which exists at the time of adoption of this section, may be
continued, provided that the number of animal units does not increase. Whenever
a non-conforming feedlot has reduced its animal unit numbers over a period of
more than one year to a lesser number of animal units, such animal unit numbers
shall not thereafter be increased.
         (c)   Application.
            1.   In the city's interpretation and application, the provisions
of this section shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion
of the public health, safety, and welfare.
            2.   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this section
are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by any other applicable law, ordinance, statute, resolution, or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive or which
impose higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
         (d)   Measurements. All stated and measured distance shall be taken to
the nearest integral foot. If a fraction is one-half foot or less, the integral
foot next below shall be taken.
         (e)   Compliance. The use of any land for the establishment,
expansion, or management of an animal feedlot shall comply with the provisions
of this section, the Zoning Ordinance, and the provisions of Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency Rules, Chapter 7020.
      (5)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. Except for those words and phrases defined below, the words
and phrases used in this section shall be interpreted to be given the meaning
in common usage, so as to give this section its most reasonable application.
         AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency as established in
Minnesota Statutes, also sometimes referred to as the MPCA.
         ANIMAL MANURE. Poultry, livestock or other animal excreta or a mixture
of excreta with feed, bedding or other materials.
         ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal manures which has as a standard the amount of manure
produced on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer. For purposes of
this section, the definition and units of measure contained in Minnesota Rules
Part 7020.0300, Subpart 5 shall apply.
         BLUFF. Defined as set forth in §
155.015 of this chapter.
         BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. Bluff impact zone means a bluff and land located
within 20 feet from the top of a bluff.
         BUILDING. Any structure having a roof which may provide shelter or
enclosure of persons, animals, chattel, or property of any kind and when said
structures are divided by party walls without openings, each portion of such
building so separated shall be deemed a separate building.
         BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL. All buildings, other than dwellings, which are
incidental to a farming operation.
         CITY OF ST. MICHAEL, MINNESOTA. City, municipal corporation, or
municipality.
         CITY COUNCIL. The governing body for the City of St. Michael.
         COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency whose duties are defined in Minnesota Statutes.
         CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit specifically and individually granted
by the City Council pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
         CONSTRUCTION SHORT FORM PERMIT. A permit giving permission for
construction or expansion of a feedlot or manure storage area when, as
determined by the city, there is not a pollution hazard.
         COUNTY. Wright County, Minnesota.
         DOMESTIC FERTILIZER. An animal manure that is put on or injected into
the soil to improve the quality or quantity of plant growth; or animal manure
that is used as compost, soil conditioners, or specialized plant beds.
         DRAINAGE WAY. Any natural or artificial water course, including but
not limited to streams, rivers, creeks, ditches, channels, canals, conduits,
culverts, waterways, gullies, ravines, or washes, in which waters flow in a
definite direction or course, either continually or intermittently; and
including any area adjacent thereto which is subject to inundation by reason of
over flow or floodwater.
         FAMILY. One or more persons each related to the other by blood,
marriage, adoption, or foster care, or a group of not more than three persons
not so related, maintaining a common household and using common cooking and
kitchen facilities.
         FAMILY, IMMEDIATE. Persons related by blood, marriage, or certified
legal instrument.
         FEEDLOT ADMINISTRATOR. The city's Zoning Administrator, or other staff
as directed by the Zoning Administrator, which may include a county employee,
appointed by the County Board of Commissioners, working with the city to
administer the provisions of this section. The Feedlot Administrator shall have
the same duties and powers as a Feedlot Officer as defined by Minn. Rule 7020.
         FEEDLOT, ANIMAL. A lot or building or combination of lots and
buildings intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of
animals and specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may
accumulate, or where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative
cover cannot be maintained within the enclosure. Pastures shall not be
considered animal feedlots under these rules. Fish farms [aquaculture] shall be
considered feedlots for the purposes of this section.
         FEEDLOT, NEW ANIMAL. An animal feedlot constructed and operated at a
site where no animal feedlot existed previously or where a pre-existing animal
feedlot has been abandoned or unused for a period of five years or more.
         FEEDLOT, OPERATOR. A person, corporation, group of individuals,
partnership, joint venture, owner or any other business entity having charge or
control of one or more animal feedlots, poultry lots or other animal lots.
         FEEDLOT PERMIT. A document issued by the agency, city, or county which
contains requirements, conditions, and compliance schedules relating to the
discharge of animal manure pollutants.
         FEEDLOT, RUNOFF. The movement of water from a feedlot, either in the
form of rainfall, snow melt, or as water from a waterway, ditch, drainage way,
and the like passing over a feedlot, carrying particles of manure into a body
of water or to a channelized flow environment and thereby constituting a
potential pollution hazard.
         FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the
stage of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry
areas.
         FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a
specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
         FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the Flood
Insurance Study for the city.
         FLOOD PLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake,
or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional
flood and as defined in §
155.365.
         HOLDING POND. A storage facility, usually earthen, where feedlot
runoff and other diluted wastes are stored before final disposal. It is not
designed for treatment of waste.
         IMMEDIATELY INCORPORATED. Manure or process wastewaters tilled into
the soil within 24 hours of application and prior to rainfall.
         INTERIM PERMIT. A permit identifying the necessary corrective measures
to abate potential pollution hazards and defining a length of time to correct
the problem.
         LAGOON, ANIMAL. An impoundment made by excavation of earth fill and/or
construction of an earthen berm for the biological treatment of animal or other
agricultural waste.
         MAJOR GROWTH AREAS. Areas within the city where a combination of uses
in an urban or near-urban environment is likely to develop over the long term,
as designated in the City Land Use Plan.
         MANURE STORAGE AREA. An area where animal manure or runoff containing
animal manure is stored or placed until it can be utilized as domestic
fertilizer or removed to a permitted animal manure disposal site.
         NRCS. The Natural Resource Conservation Service of the USDA, a federal
agency.
         OWNER. Any person having possession, control or title to an animal
feedlot.
         PARCEL. Lot of record as defined by the St. Michael Zoning Ordinance.
         PASTURES. Areas where grass or other growing plants are used for
grazing and where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative ground
cover is maintained during the growing season except in the immediate vicinity
of temporary supplemental feeding or watering devices.
         PERSON. Includes a firm, association, organization, partnership,
trust, company, corporation, as well as an individual.
         PLANNING COMMISSION. The St. Michael Planning Commission, except when
otherwise designated.
         POTENTIAL POLLUTION HAZARD. A condition which indicates a potential
for pollution of land and/or waters including, but not limited to:
            1.   An animal feedlot or manure storage area whose construction or
operation will allow a discharge of pollutants to surface water or ground water
of the state in excess of applicable standards, including, but not limited to,
Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7050, during a rainstorm event of less magnitude than
the 25 year, 24-hour event, or will violate any city, state or county rules or
ordinances.
            2.   An animal feedlot or manure storage area located within shore
land or flood plain.
         PROCESS WASTEWATERS. Waters and/or precipitation, including rain or
snow, which comes into contact with manure, litter, bedding, or other raw
material or intermediate or final material or product used in or resulting from
the production of animals, poultry, or direct products, such as milk or eggs.
         SHORELAND. Any area contained within the Shoreland Overlay District of
the St. Michael Zoning Ordinance.
         SPECIAL PROTECTION AREA. Land within 300 feet of all:
            1.   Protected waters and protected wetlands as identified on the
Department of Natural Resources Protected Waters and Wetlands Map for Wright
County; and
            2.   Intermittent streams and ditches identified on United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps, excluding drainage ditches with berms and
segments of intermittent streams which are grassed waterways.
         SWCD. The Wright Soil and Water Conservation District.
         USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
         WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portions thereof.
         WETLANDS. Defined as set forth in §
155.015 of this chapter.
      (6)   Administration.
         (a)   Administrator. This section shall be administered by the Feedlot
Administrator, with assistance from the county and the Wright Soil and Water
Conservation District.
         (b)   Duties and powers. The Feedlot Administrator shall have the
following duties and powers:
            1.   Administer and enforce this section.
            2.   Issue construction short form permits and interim permits.
            3.   Receive and forward applications for state administered
permits together with city and/or county recommendations to the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
            4.   Supervise the keeping of all necessary records including those
related to feedlot and manure management and construction of manure storage and
runoff control structures and/or practices.
            5.   Consult with county, SWCD, NRCS, MPCA and private consultants
as necessary to ensure construction standards are followed on manure handling
and runo control structures.
            6.   Maintain a record of all permits and registration material.
            7.   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to
this section.
            8.   Educate the public and feedlot operators to issues of this
section such as potential feedlot pollution problems.
            9.   Oversee the inspection of feedlot operations to ensure
compliance with this section.
            10.   Consult with other city and county departments, state and
federal agencies, and private consultants as needed to discharge these duties.
            11.   Fulfill the requirements of a county feedlot pollution
control officer as set out in Minnesota Rules Part 7020.1600, Subpart 2.
         (c)   Administered by the city. The Feedlot Administrator shall review
applications and process as follows:
            1.   All permit applications shall be processed in accordance with
Minnesota Rules Part 7020.1600, Subpart 4a.
            2.   Applications for state administered feedlots shall be first
submitted to the Feedlot Administrator. After review, the application and
comments shall be forwarded to the agency.
            3.   No building permits directly related to the confined feeding,
breeding, raising or holding of animals, or the handling or storage of manure
shall be issued until a construction short form permit or interim permit, if
required, has been issued by the agency or city.
         (d)   Administered by the state. The Feedlot Administrator shall
forward to the Commissioner, with recommendations and comments, all animal
feedlot permit applications which fall within one or more of the following
categories:
            1.   Animal feedlots that are required to obtain a permit under
Minnesota Rules 7020.0405, Subpart 1A and B. This includes all feedlots of
1,000 animal units or more;
            2.   Animal feedlots where manure is not used as a domestic
fertilizer; or
            3.   Animal feedlots for which further technical review is desired
by the Feedlot Administrator.
         (e)   Variances.
            1.   A variance from this section may be granted when the city
determines that granting the variance would not result in adverse environmental
effects and if the criteria for granting variances under §
155.096 are met.
            2.   Any person seeking a variance shall comply with those
requirements as set forth in§
155.096 of this chapter.
      (7)   Registration and permits.
         (a)   Registration. Registration shall be required for all animal
feedlots of ten animal units or more on a four-year cycle following the
guidelines contained in Minnesota Rules Part 7020.0350, Subpart 4, including:
            1.   A registration form shall be made available by the Feedlot
Administrator and will include the information required under Minnesota Rules,
Part 7020.0350, Subpart 1.
            2.   Any person owning or operating an existing animal feedlot
without a current registration or feedlot permit from the city, county or the
agency shall register the feedlot operation with the Feedlot Administrator.
            3.   A registered animal feedlot shall secure city, county and/or
state permits when required under this section.
         (b)   Permit required. Any person owning or operating a proposed or
existing animal feedlot having ten animal units or more in a shoreland area, or
50 animal units or more anywhere else, shall make application to the Feedlot
Administrator for a feedlot permit if any of the following conditions exist:
            1.   A new animal feedlot is proposed.
            2.   A change in operation of an existing animal feedlot is
proposed; a change in operation includes:
               a.   A change in the construction or operation of an animal
feedlot that would significantly or adversely affect the storage, handling,
utilization, or disposal of animal manure;
               b.   An increase beyond the registered number of animal units;
               c.   Any construction of a building or the expansion of a dirt
or concrete lot that contains livestock; or
               d.   An increase in the number of animal units to ten or more
which are confined at an unregistered animal feedlot;
            3.   A National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit application is required under state or federal rules and regulations; or
            4.   An inspection by agency staff or the Feedlot Administrator
determines that the animal feedlot creates or maintains a potential pollution
hazard, and the feedlot has not signed up for the 2005 to 2010 (and as amended
from time to time) Open Lot Certification under Minnesota Rules, Part
7020.2003, Subparts 4 through 6.
         (c)   Shoreland review required. Any animal feedlot of ten animal
units or less, which is located within the Shoreland Zoning District as
designated under §
155.053, may be reviewed by the Feedlot Administrator to determine if a
potential pollution hazard exists. The Feedlot Administrator may place
conditions upon the operations of such animal feedlots to limit their impact on
surface water quality.
         (d)   Permit application. A permit application shall include the
following:
            1.   Owner's and operator's name and address.
            2.   Location, or proposed location, of the animal feedlot
including quarter, section, range and township.
            3.   Animal types and maximum number of animals of each type which
will be confined at the feedlot.
            4.   A scale drawing clearly indicating the dimensions of the
feedlot and showing all existing homes, buildings, existing manure storage
areas and/or structures, lakes, ponds, water courses, wetlands, dry-runs, rock
outcroppings, roads and wells within 1,000 feet of the proposed feedlot.
            5.   Descriptions of the soil types, ground water elevations,
topography, and drainage pattern of the site and surrounding area.
            6.   Plans for buildings and structures as required by this section
and/or other city, county and state ordinances and regulations.
            7.   A manure and waste management plan including:
               a.   Manure handling and application techniques;
               b.   Acreage available for manure application;
               c.   Run-off potential;
               d.   Plans for proposed manure storage or pollution abatement
structures; and
               e.   Plans for the proper disposal of dead livestock;
            8.   Leases or agreements allowing the applicant to dispose of
manure on land other than his own.
            9.   Application fees, permit fees, and such other fees as
established by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
            10.   Persons applying for a new animal feedlot or animal feedlot
expansion with a capacity of 500 animal units or more shall provide evidence of
compliance with the notice requirements contained in M.S. § 116.07, Subd. 7a.
         (e)   Duration of construction short form permits and interim permits.
All construction short form permits and interim permits expire within 24 months
of the date of issuance, and may be extended only under the provisions
contained in Minnesota Rules Part 7020.0535, Subpart 5.
      (8)   Minimum standards.
         (a)   Minimum area and animal density. A minimum area of four acres,
or such greater area, required to meet all setbacks set forth by zoning
ordinance shall be required for animal feedlot operations. On lots larger than
four acres in the A-1, AP, RR, R-1, R-1a, R-2, R-3, R-4, and I-1 zoning
districts, animals shall be allowed at a maximum density of one-half animal
unit per acre, with the following conditions:
            1.   Any new animal feedlot or animal feedlot expansion, which is
required to register under this section, must be located in an A-1 or AP Zoning
District and may not be located in any other Zoning District.
            2.   An interim use permit, issued under §
155.043 (Uses) and §
155.095 (Interim Use Permit), and in accordance with the process established in
Minnesota Rules 7020.0505D, shall be required for the following:
               a.   Any new animal feedlot, up to a maximum of 300 animal
units, of which any part is located in an area not designated for agriculture
use in the city's comprehensive plan.
               b.   An animal feedlot expansion, up to a maximum of 500 animal
units, of which any part is located in an area not designated for agriculture
use in the city's comprehensive plan.
               c.   Any animal feedlot expansion within an area designed for
agriculture use in the city's comprehensive plan which causes the facility to
meet or exceed 500 animal units.
               d.   These restrictions shall not apply to farm operations
existing prior to the adoption of this section, but shall apply to any
expansion of an existing farm operation. Parcel size in all districts is
determined using all adjoining parcels under common ownership.
            3.   Additional land. The animal feedlot owner shall own or have
sufficient additional land under contract to meet the manure utilization
requirement for spreading of manure produced in their feedlot. The Feedlot
Administrator shall retain copies of all written agreements between the feedlot
operators and lessors or any person who permits land application of manure. No
land area may be subject to more than one such agreement.
         (b)   Building, holding basin, lagoon, and manure storage area
setbacks. No permits shall be issued for the construction of an open-air clay,
earthen, or flexible membrane lined swine waste lagoon or holding pond. This
prohibition does not apply to repair or modification related to an
environmental improvement of an existing lagoon or holding pond, nor does it
apply to containment basins constructed to handle runoff only from existing
animal feedlots, as necessary to correct a potential pollution hazard.
Livestock buildings, manure holding basins, lagoons, and manure storage areas
shall be constructed, operated and maintained so as to minimize the aesthetic,
health, odor and pollution concerns associated with neighboring properties and
land uses. The following setbacks shall apply:
            1.   Property lines.
               a.   100 feet: All buildings housing livestock, open feedlots
and solid manure storage areas, including short term stockpiling sites.
               b.   200 feet: Liquid manure storage areas in compliance with
Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2100.
            2.   Neighboring properties.
               a.   Pre-ordinance feedlots. The modi cations and/or expansion
of existing animal feedlots and/or permanent manure storage areas that are
located within 500 feet of an existing dwelling unit may be allowed, if they do
not further encroach on the established setback. Existing feedlots that are
within 1,000 feet of an existing dwelling may not expand to more than 499
animal units, unless a Conditional Use Permit (CUP) is obtained. When an
expansion requires a CUP, the City Council shall consider the impact on pre-
existing dwelling units within 1,000 feet and may require that the expansion
meet the standards of a new feedlot.
               b.   Post-ordinance feedlots.
                  i.   No permits for a new dwelling unit shall be issued
within 500 feet of an existing registered and/or permitted animal feedlot or
permanent manure storage area of ten to 499 animal units, nor within 1,000 feet
of an existing registered and/or permitted animal feedlot or permanent manure
storage area of 500 or more animal units unless a variance is obtained under §
155.096 of this chapter.
                  ii.   No permits shall be issued for the construction and/or
creation of a new animal feedlot or permanent manure storage area requiring
registration and/or a permit of ten to 499 animal units that is located within
500 feet of an existing dwelling, nor for the construction and/or creation of a
new animal feedlot or permanent manure storage area of 500 or more animal units
within 1,000 feet of an existing dwelling unless a variance is obtained under §
155.096 of this chapter.
                  iii.   An animal feedlot that currently does not need to
register and is located within 500 feet of a dwelling owned by a person other
than an immediate family member may not expand to such a number of animal units
that would require registration and/or a permit.
               c.   Commercial/industrial/public/institutional activity. Five
hundred feet from any area zoned B-1, B-2, B-3, I-1, or P/I under the St.
Michael Zoning Ordinance.
               d.   Owners and operators. Owners and/or operators of an
existing feedlot, a proposed feedlot, or a feedlot modification or expansion,
and their immediate family, shall be exempt from the setback requirements set
forth in this section, with respect to any dwellings or feedlot improvements
owned by them.
         (c)   Valid minimum standards and existing operation setbacks. The
standards set above are minimum standards that may be increased by the City
Council during the conditional use permit issuance process due to concerns or
circumstances unique to a specific feedlot permit application. Animal feedlots
in active operation prior to the adoption of this section shall comply with the
standards of this section whenever possible when a change in operation, animal
numbers, or new livestock facility is proposed.
         (d)   Wetland setback. The provisions of this section apply only to
those areas which are not designated as Shoreland Overlay District under the
St. Michael Zoning Ordinance.
            1.   No new animal feedlots or manure storage areas shall be
located within 300 feet of any protected waters or wetlands identified on the
Department of Natural Resources Protected Water and Wetlands Map for the
county.
            2.   Modifications or expansions to existing animal feedlots or
manure storage areas that are located within 300 feet of any protected waters
or wetlands identified on the Department of Natural Resources Protected Water
and Wetlands Map for the county are allowed as long as the expansion does not
further encroach into the wetland or pose a potential pollution hazard.
            3.   No new animal feedlot or manure storage areas shall be allowed
within 100 feet of a wetland of types 3, 4, or 5.
            4.   Modifications or expansions to existing animal feedlots or
manure storage areas that are located within 100 feet of a wetland of types 3,
4 or 5 are allowed as long as the expansion does not further encroach into the
wetland or pose a potential pollution hazard.
         (e)   Well setback.
            1.   New animal feedlots or manure storage areas shall not be
located within 100 feet of a private well.
            2.   Modifications or expansions to existing animal feedlots or
manure storage areas that are located within 100 feet of a private well are
allowed if the expansion does not further encroach into the well setback.
         (f)   Well head protection areas. Feedlot and manure management
practices may be further regulated within Well Head Protection Zones
established by the city or Joint Powers Water Board (JPWB).
         (g)   Shoreland.
            1.   New animal feedlots or manure storage areas shall not be
located within any area classified as the Shoreland Overlay Zoning District
under §
155.053 of this chapter, nor in the bluff impact zones.
            2.   Modifications or expansions to animal feedlots that existed as
of October 16, 2000, and that are located within any area classified as the
Shoreland Overlay District under §
155.053 of this chapter or within a bluff impact zone are allowed, if they do
not further encroach into the shoreland setback, do not further encroach on
bluff impact zones, if all identified pollution hazards are corrected, and if
they obtain a feedlot permit.
         (h)   Disposal of animal carcasses. The animal feedlot owner shall
provide a plan indicating
the method to be used for the disposal of animal carcasses.
            1.   The plan for dead animal disposal shall be consistent with the
Minnesota Board of Animal Health Regulations Minnesota Rules Chapter 1719.
            2.   The disposal plan shall include the name and location of any
rendering service to be used and methods for protecting carcasses from
scavengers.
            3.   Animal carcasses, either whole, partial, or ground-up, shall
not be disposed of in the manure storage structure.
         (i)   Coordination with the City of St. Michael Zoning Ordinance. All
provisions of this section shall be coordinated with and referenced to the St.
Michael Zoning Ordinance to ensure the compatibility and comprehensive coverage
of the feedlot and other requirements of Zoning Ordinance.
      (9)   Prohibited locations of feedlots. No new animal feedlot shall be
constructed within any 100-year flood plain.
      (10)   Land application of manure. All land application of manure or
process wastewater shall comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2225.
      (11)   Restrictions of land application sites.
         (a)   Soil loss in shoreland areas. Land application of manure or
process wastewater shall not be allowed on soils within shoreland that exceed
allowable soil loss as set by the NRCS with assistance from the SWCD unless a
conservation plan that will reduce soil loss to the allowable level is
developed and is showing progress towards implementation within one year of
issuance of a feedlot permit or interim permit.
         (b)   Right-of-way. Manure or process wastewater shall not be applied
to the right-of-way of public roads.
         (c)   Frozen or snow-covered soils. Manure or process wastewater shall
not be applied to frozen or snow-covered soils in special protection areas.
         (d)   Lakes and perennial streams. A minimum distance of 300 feet
shall be maintained between surface applications of manure or process
wastewaters and all lakes and perennial streams on unfrozen soils. In cases
when manure is injected or immediately incorporated, or if there is at least a
100-foot perennial buffer, the separation distance may be reduced to 100 feet
on unfrozen soils.
         (e)   Other special protection areas. A minimum distance of 300 feet
shall be maintained between surface applications of manure or process
wastewaters and all other special protection areas on unfrozen soils. In cases
where manure is injected or immediately incorporated, or if there is at least a
50-foot perennial buffer, the separation distance may be reduced to 75 feet on
unfrozen soils.
         (f)   Flood plain. Manure or process wastewater applications in the
Flood Plain Overlay District as defined by §
155.365 of this chapter shall comply with the following requirements:
            1.   No application to frozen or snow covered soils in the flood
plain.
            2.   Any application to unfrozen soils in the flood plain shall be
immediately incorporated into the soil.
         (g)   Drainage ditches. If no potential pollution hazard exists, a
minimum distance of one rod or 16.5 feet shall be maintained between surface
applications of manure or process wastewater and drainage ditches or grassed
waterways unless classified as a wetland or protected water.
         (h)   Private wells. If no potential pollution hazard exists, a
minimum distance of 100 feet shall be maintained between all applications of
manure or process wastewater and any private water supply well.
         (i)   Public wells. If no potential pollution hazard exists, a minimum
distance of 300 feet shall be maintained between all application of manure or
process wastewater and any public water supply well.
         (j)   Residences. Manure or process wastewater shall not be applied
within 100 feet of a residence without injecting or immediate incorporation
into the soil unless permission in the form of a written agreement is granted
by the resident. When determining the distance between a residence and manure
application, the distance shall be measured from the residence, not property
lines, to manure application.
         (k)   Treatment or disposal. Any manure or process wastewater not
utilized as domestic fertilizer shall be treated or disposed of in accordance
with applicable state laws and regulations.
         (l)   Irrigation of liquid manure. The application of liquid manure or
process wastewater by irrigation is prohibited unless a liquid manure
irrigation plan for the feedlot has been submitted to and approved by the
Feedlot Administrator. The liquid manure irrigation plan must contain a
description of the specific irrigation process proposed, amounts and frequency
of application, analysis of the nutrient content of the manure or a proposed
sampling schedule for the manure, a description of the land to be used, and a
description of the methods to be used to limit aesthetic and odor problems with
neighbors. The Feedlot Administrator shall provide the SWCD with copies of
liquid manure irrigation plans for review and comment before approval is given.
      (12)   Manure storage and transportation.
         (a)   Compliance with state and local standards. All animal manure
shall be stored and transported in conformance with Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency Rules 7020 and the Feedlot Ordinance.
         (b)   Potential pollution hazard prohibited. No manure storage area
shall be constructed, located, or operated so as to create or maintain a
potential pollution hazard unless a certificate of compliance or a permit has
been issued by the MPCA.
         (c)   Vehicles, spreaders. All vehicles used to transport animal
manure on public roads shall
be leak proof. Manure spreaders with end gates shall be in compliance with this
provision provided the end gate works effectively to restrict leakage and the
manure spreader is leak proof.
         (d)   Utilization as domestic fertilizer. Animal manure, where
utilized as domestic fertilizer,
shall not be stored for longer than one year.
         (e)   Run-off control structures. All manure storage areas shall have
run-off control structures to contain the liquid if the storage area is located
where a potential pollution hazard exists.
         (f)   Storage capacity. A manure utilization plan specifying storage
capacity adequate for the type and quantity of manure generated by the animal
feedlot shall be developed as part of the permit process.
         (g)   Liquid manure storage areas. All liquid manure storage areas
must comply with the provisions of Minnesota Rules Part 7020.2100.
         (h)   Steel tanks. No steel tanks shall be used for underground manure
storage.
      (13)   Violations and enforcement.
         (a)   Violations. Any person who shall violate any of the provisions
of this section or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of this
section or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions of this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
         (b)   Enforcement.
            1.   Stop work orders. Whenever any construction or animal feedlot
activities are being done contrary to the provisions of this chapter, the
Feedlot Administrator may order the work stopped by written notice personally
served upon the owner or operator of the feedlot. Such construction or animal
feedlot activities shall cease and desist until subsequent authorization to
proceed is received from the Feedlot Administrator, or its designee.
            2.   Revocation or suspension. Whenever any animal feedlot is
operated in violation of the conditions set forth on the permit, interim permit
or certificate of compliance, said permit may be subject to revocation or
suspension upon written notice personally served upon the owner or operator of
the feedlot.
            3.   Interference prohibited. No person shall hinder or otherwise
interfere with the Feedlot Administrator in the performance of duties and
responsibilities required pursuant to this section.
            4.   Access to premises. Upon the request of the Feedlot
Administrator, the applicant, permittee or any other person shall allow access
at any reasonable time to the affected premises for the purposes of
administering and enforcing this section. Refusal to allow reasonable access to
the Feedlot Administrator shall be deemed a violation of this section, whether
or not any other specific violations are cited.
            5.   Injunctive relief and other remedies. In the event of a
violation of this section, the Feedlot Administrator may institute appropriate
actions or proceedings, including the seeking of injunctive relief, to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations. All costs, including reasonable
attorney fees, incurred for such enforcement action may be recovered by the
city in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. These remedies
may be imposed upon the owner, operator, applicant, permittee, installer, or
other responsible person either in addition to or separate from other
enforcement actions.
         (c)   Reporting of spills and accidental discharges. Owners and
operators of animal feedlots shall immediately report to the Feedlot
Administrator any accidental discharge of animal manure from a lagoon or
holding pond.
      (14)   Abandonment/accidental discharge. Owners and operators of animal
feedlots shall have joint and several liability for clean-up, closure or
remediation of abandoned animal feedlot sites as well as for the clean up or
remediation of the effects of spills and accidental discharges. At the
discretion of the city, such costs may be certified to the County Auditor as a
special tax against the real property involved.
   (C)   Retail nurseries, greenhouses, and tree farms.
      (1)   The site accesses onto a major collector;
      (2)   Adequate off-street parking and access is provided on the site or
on lots directly abutting or directly across a public street or alley to the
principal use in compliance; and
         (3)   Adequate off-street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by §§
155.074 et seq.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.066 PRINCIPAL UTILITY USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Parking facility.
      (1)   The parking lot area shall be located adjacent to the businesses it
is intended to serve.
      (2)   If access to the parking lot is through an adjacent parcel, the
applicant shall be required to obtain a permanent access easement from the
adjacent parcel before the use may commence.
   (B)   Towers and wireless facilities as regulated by
Chapter 153.
   (C)   Wind energy conversion systems.
      (1)   Purpose. Health, safety, welfare, compatibility, functionality of
turbines in urban areas.
      (2)   Zoning district regulations. A WECS is permitted only if the WECS
complies with the requirements set forth in §
155.095 and those requirements set forth below.
         (a)   In reviewing an application for an interim use permit for a
WECS, the Planning Commission and Council may attach whatever reasonable
conditions they deem necessary to mitigate anticipated adverse impacts
associated with the use, to protect the value of property within the zoning
district and to achieve the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
Such conditions may include increasing setbacks, relocating the WECS, or
landscaped screening in order to protect views, reduce noise or other negative
characteristics.
         (b)   A roof or building-mounted WECS is not permitted.
         (c)   Only a WECS utilizing horizontal axis wind turbines (OHWT) is
permitted. The OHWT must have the main rotor shaft and electrical generator at
the top of the tower and must be pointed into the wind.
         (d)   Number. Only one WECS shall be permitted per lot of record.
         (e)   Height. A WECS shall have a total height, including tower and
rotor at its highest point, of no more than 150 feet.
         (f)   Yard requirements. In no case shall a WECS be located closer to
the public right-of-way than any principal structure existing on the property
at the time of construction of the WECS.
         (g)   Setbacks. A WECS shall be setback from all property lines,
overhead electrical power lines, or planned right-of-way identified in the
city's transportation plan a minimum of 1.1 times the total height of the WECS.
A WECS located in the Shoreland Overlay District shall be setback a minimum of
500 feet from the ordinary high water level.
         (h)   Safety design standards.
            1.   Engineering certification. An applicant seeking to install a
WECS must provide engineering certification that the turbine, foundation, and
tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional standards given site
soil and climate conditions. Certification may be demonstrated by the WECS'
manufacturer's engineer or another qualified engineer acceptable to the City
Building Official.
            2.   Rotor safety. Each WECS shall be equipped with both a manual
and automatic braking device capable of stopping the WECS' operation in winds
40 mph or greater.
         (i)   Equipment design and performance standards.
            1.   Each WECS must be mounted on a tubular, monopole type tower.
            2.   Color and finish. All wind turbines and towers that are part
of a WECS shall be white or grey, or a similar color approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Finishes shall be matt or non-reflective.
            3.   Rotor clearance. Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a
minimum of 30 feet of clearance over any structure or tree located within a 200
foot radius of the WECS.
            4.   Rotor diameter. The rotor diameter of a WECS shall not exceed
50 feet.
            5.   Technology standards. A WECS must meet the minimum standards
of a WECS certification program recognized by the American Wind Energy
Association, such as AWEA's Small Wind Turbine Performance and Safety Standard,
the Emerging Technologies program of the California Energy Commission, or other
third party standards acceptable to the city.
            6.   Established wind resource. A WECS shall only be installed
where there is an established wind resource. An established wind resource may
be documented in the following ways:
               a.   The proposed site for the WECS has a minimum 11 MPH average
wind speed at the designed hub height, as documented on the Minnesota
Department of Commerce statewide wind speed maps.
               b.   The proposed WECS turbine has a minimum hub height of 80
feet and the blade arc is 30 feet higher, on a vertical measurement, than all
structures and trees within 300 feet of the tower.
               c.   Providing to the city an analysis conducted by a certified
wind energy installer or site assessor (North American Board of Certified
Energy Professional, NABCEP, or equivalent) that includes estimates of wind
speed at the WECS turbine height based on measured data, estimated annual
production, and compliance with the WECS manufacturer's design wind speed.
         (j)   Lighting. A WECS shall not be artificially lighted, except to
the extent required by the Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or
state law or regulation that preempts local regulations.
      (3)   Plans required. Plan applications shall be accompanied by to-scale
horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings of the entire WECS and a scaled
site plan. At the city's sole discretion, a current survey may be required. The
site plan must show the location of the WECS tower and accessory equipment and
any structures or improvements (on or offsite) located within 500 feet of the
proposed WECS tower location.
      (4)   Noise. Each WECS shall comply with Minnesota Rules 7030, and shall
not exceed 50 dB(A) when measured from the outside of the nearest residence,
business, school or other inhabited structure. The audible noise from a WECS
may periodically exceed allowable noise levels when wind exceeds 30 mph.
      (5)   Compliance with other codes. Each WECS must comply with the
Minnesota State Electrical Code and must be approved by the Federal Aviation
Administration and the City Building Official.
      (6)   Utility notification. A WECS may not be installed until the Zoning
Administrator has determined that the owner of the land upon which the WECS is
to be located has submitted notification to the utility company of the owner's
intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems
are exempt from this requirement.
      (7)   Abandonment. A WECS shall be considered abandoned after one year
without energy production. A WECS and its accessory facilities shall be removed
to ground level within 60 days after the city has notified the owner of the
land upon which the WECS is located that the city has declared the WECS
abandoned.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.067 ACCESSORY USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
   (A)   Accessory retail.
      (1)   The use shall be located within the structure whose principal use
is not retail sales.
      (2)   The use shall be conducted in a clearly defined area of the
principal building.
      (3)   The area devoted to the use shall not occupy more than 25% of the
gross building area.
      (4)   Hours of operation shall be limited from 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
unless specifically modified by the City Council.
      (5)   No internal advertising or display shall be visible from the
exterior of the building.
      (6)   Off-street parking shall be provided for both the principal and
accessory uses in compliance with §
155.074.
      (7)   Signage may occupy up to 25% of the monument sign area in
compliance with §§
155.081 through
155.087. Wall signs are prohibited.
   (B)   Accessory structure.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Accessory structures are a permitted use where applicable; they
may not work on all lots given the location of other structures, topography, or
any other conditions.
         (b)   No accessory structure shall be constructed upon a lot until the
construction of the principal structure has commenced.
         (c)   An accessory structure shall be considered attached if it is
connected to the principal building by a covered passageway, i.e. garage,
patio.
         (d)   Detached accessory structures shall have not less than a 4:12
roof pitch.
         (e)   Any accessory structure in which livestock, poultry, and farm
animals are kept, shall be detached on the lot and conform to the setbacks
listed in §
155.065.
         (f)   In all districts except A-1 (see division (7) below), any door
opening over eight feet in height shall be oriented perpendicular to the front
lot line so as not to face any public street. If facing a public street, the
door shall be set back an additional ten feet beyond the minimum front yard
setback required, plus an additional one-foot setback for every one-foot of
height of the door opening over eight feet.
      (2)   Number of accessory structures.
         (a)   Within the A-1, AP, and PI districts, there is no limit to the
number of accessory structures on a lot. Within the PI District, accessory
structures shall only be used for storage of supplies and maintenance equipment
used solely on the premises.
         (b)   Within any residential district, a residential lot, other than a
river riparian lot, may have no more than two accessory structures.
      (3)   Accessory structure size.
         (a)   Maximum building area shall be calculated using outside wall
dimensions, except where a roof projects greater than two feet from the
sidewall, then the roof area will be used to determine maximum building area.
         (b)   Except for agricultural buildings in the A-1 Zoning District,
accessory structures, individually and combined, either attached or detached to
the principal structure, shall be subject to the following maximums in Table
6.1 below.
   Table 6.1 Accessory Structure Size
                 Total Maximum Building Area (sq. Maximum Sidewall Height -
Lot Size (Acre)1 ft.)2                            Detached Accessory Structure
                                                  (ft.)
                 Total Maximum Building Area (sq. Maximum Sidewall Height -
Lot Size (Acre)1 ft.)2                            Detached Accessory Structure
                                                  (ft.)
Less than 1.00   1,200                            10
1.00 to 1.99     1,600                            12
2.00 to 2.99     2,000                            14
3.00 to 3.99     2,400                            14
4.00 to 4.99     2,800                            14
5.00 or more     3,200 + 400 additional sq. ft.   14
                 for each whole acre over 5 acres
The following criteria shall be used to determine the maximum square footage
for accessory structures:
1   Lot size is the area of the horizontal plan within the lot lines. For
purposes of determining accessory space, except in the A-1 zoning district, the
lot area shall exclude all property within the ordinary high water level or
boundary of all wetlands, streams, lakes, rivers, storm water ponds.
2   On parcels one acre or greater in size located in the A-1, RR, and R-
2 zoning districts, 780 square feet of the attached garage shall not be counted
towards the maximum accessory building square footage.
3   Lean-tos, open wall structures, gazebos, and play houses are to be included
in the calculation of total square footage.
 
      (4)   Accessory structure placement.
         (a)   Attached. All accessory structures or buildings physically
attached to the principal structure or building by means of a common foundation
and which is constructed of the same building materials as the principal
structure shall meet the setback standards for principal structures identified
in their respective zoning district.
         (b)   Detached. All detached accessory structures shall meet the
minimum setbacks listed in the Table 6.2 below.
                                       Structure Setbacks by Zoning District1
Size of Individual Accessory Structure RR, R-1 through R-4, PI A-12
                                       Side Rear               Side Rear
Size of Individual     Structure Setbacks by Zoning District1
Accessory Structure    RR, R-1 through R-4, PI A-12
                       Side Rear               Side Rear
Up to 120 sq. ft.      5    5                  5    5
121 to 240 sq. ft.     10   10                 10   10
241 to 360 sq. ft.     10   15                 10   15
261 to 1,200 sq. ft.   10   30                 20   30
1,201 to 1,300 sq. ft. 11   31                 21   31
1,301 to 1,400 sq. ft. 12   32                 22   32
1,401 to 1,500 sq. ft. 13   33                 23   33
1,501 to 1,600 sq. ft. 14   34                 24   34
Greater than 1,600 sq. Continue to add 1 foot for each additional 100 sq. ft.
ft.                    of area
1   Accessory structures shall not be located within designated drainage and
utility easements.
2   Any agricultural accessory structure which houses livestock, farm animals
or poultry shall conform to the setbacks listed in § 155.065.
3   Any pole and post frame building being used as a dwelling unit shall
conform to the setbacks listed in § 155.044.
 
         (c)   No accessory structure shall be located in a drainage or utility
easement.
         (d)   Seasonal porches, as defined in §
155.015 of the city code, shall maintain the designated front, side, and rear
yard setbacks for the zoning district in which they are located.
         (e)   Decks and pools are permitted 15 feet from a rear property line,
provided they are not within an easement.
         (f)   Front yard.
            1.   Accessory structures are prohibited in the front yard of a
lot.
            2.   In the A-1 District, accessory structures may be allowed in
the front yard of a lot if the following conditions are met:
               a.   The accessory structure color must match the existing
principal structure and be architecturally designed.
               b.   Accessory structure doors must be perpendicular to the road
(or to the existing principal structure).
               c.   The maximum sidewall height of the accessory structure
shall not exceed 12 feet.
               d.   The maximum garage door height of the accessory structure
shall not exceed 11 feet.
               e.   Accessory structures must be setback no less than 75 feet,
or half the distance from the principal structure to a public right-of-way or
road easement, whichever is greater.
               f.   The principal structure and the accessory structure must
share a common driveway.
            3.   Accessory structures may be located within the front yard of a
corner lot in the RR, R-1 and R-2 zoning districts subject to the following
requirements:
               a.   The subject parcel must be at least 1.01 acres in area
excluding stormwater ponds, wetlands, lakes, and rivers.
               b.   The front setback of the accessory structure shall be
located no closer than the principal structure front setback or frontage
whichever is more restrictive.
               c.   The accessory structure must be designed to architecturally
match the existing principal structure including roof pitch, windows, trim,
shingles, color and side materials.
               d.   The maximum sidewall height of the accessory structure
shall not exceed 12 feet.
               e.   The maximum garage door height of the accessory structure
shall not exceed ten feet.
               f.   The square footage of the accessory building shall not
exceed 720 square feet.
               g.   The accessory structure must have a 12 inch minimum and 30
inch maximum roof overhang and roof eaves.
               h.   A detached accessory structure may not be located more than
20 feet from the principal structure and the location of the accessory
structure may not traverse a line from the public road to the nearest corner on
either side of the principal structure in a manner that would place the
accessory structure between the road and principal structure.
               i.   The principal structure and the accessory structure must
share a common driveway. The driveway to the accessory structure may not
traverse in front of the principal structure and must have the required hard
surface within six months of final inspection of the accessory structure.
      (5)   Design and materials.
         (a)   All accessory structures of any size shall be constructed of
durable, finished materials and shall be compatible in color to the principal
structure.
         (b)   Accessory structures over 120 square feet in area shall be
compatible with the principal structure in terms of design, roof style, roof
pitch, overhang, eaves, color, and exterior finish materials.
         (c)   Within the A-1 District, vertical siding, including steel, is
permitted under the following conditions:
            1.   Wainscoting is required on all four sides of the structure, at
least 42 inches from ground level. Wainscoting may be in the form of a
different color paint or material such as brick or stone;
            2.   The accessory structure shall have a minimum one-foot gable
overhang;
            3.   The accessory structure shall have a minimum two-foot eave
overhang except on gambrel roofs as approved by the Zoning Administrator; and
            4.   All fascia and soffits shall be finished.
      (6)   Multiple level accessory structures. All multiple level accessory
structures, whether attached to or detached from the principal structure, shall
be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   All multiple level accessory structures, whether attached to or
detached from the principal structure, shall be subject to the following
conditions:
            1.   The square footage of multiple level accessory structures
shall be calculated by adding the area of each floor of the structure. Floors
which are exposed above the finished grade for less than 50% of the total
building perimeter may be excluded from the square footage calculation.
            2.   The height of multiple level accessory structures shall be
calculated by measuring the height from the finished grade to the top of the
sidewall. Floors which are exposed above the finished grade for less than 50%
of the total building perimeter may be excluded from the height calculation.
            3.   When the exposed area of any lower-level exterior wall that is
excluded from the square footage calculation in provision (6)(a) exceeds 30
feet in length architectural elements must be added to elevations visible to
public right-of-way or adjacent properties as approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
            4.   Multiple level accessory buildings and structures are
prohibited in the front yard of a lot.
            5.   The natural topography and existing grade of the ground
surface, existing prior to manmade alterations, must be utilized when
constructing a multiple level accessory building as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
            6.   The lower level of any multiple level accessory building shall
be located directly beneath the footprint of the building located above grade.
      (7)   Agricultural buildings. For properties that qualify as agricultural
under the criteria and definitions set forth in M.S. § 273.13 (Classification
of Property), and are ten acres or larger, all farming and agricultural related
accessory structures shall be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Number. There is no limit to the number of agricultural related
accessory structures.
         (b)   Area. Agricultural buildings are limited to 2,000 square feet
per contiguous acre of the property under common ownership.
         (c)   Setbacks. All detached accessory structures shall conform to
setbacks as listed in the "Accessory Building Setback Table" in provision (B)
(4) above and as found in §
155.065 Principal Agricultural Use-Specific Standards.
         (d)   Height. There is no maximum agricultural related accessory
structure height.
         (e)   On lots at least ten acres or more, there shall be no limit on
the height of door openings for garages or other accessory structures.
   (C)   Adult use, accessory.
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241 are
not permitted and are prohibited.
      (2)   Adult uses are prohibited from locating in any building which is
also utilized for residential purposes.
      (3)   Adult uses are prohibited from locating in any place which is also
used to dispense or consume alcoholic beverages.
      (4)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use shall be
classified as a principal adult use and shall follow the standards in §
155.063.
      (5)   An accessory adult use shall:
         (a)   Comprise no more than 5% of the floor area of the establishment
in which it is located;
         (b)   Comprise no more than 10% of gross receipts of the entire
business operation; and
         (c)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
      (6)   An accessory adult use shall be restricted from and prohibit access
to minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of general public
access. The business owner shall take every reasonable precaution to limit
access to minors.
      (7)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general view
and shall be situated in such a fashion as to prohibit access and visibility to
minors, the access of which is in clear view and under the control of the
persons responsible for the operation.
      (8)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall not be accessible to minors and shall be covered with a wrapper or other
means to prevent display of any material other than the publication title.
      (9)   Accessory adult uses shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
      (10)   Other uses. Accessory adult uses not specifically cited shall
comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (D)   Communication device.
      (1)   In all residential districts, only one type of the following are
permitted per lot:
         (a)   Satellite dish;
         (b)   Amateur radio tower; or
         (c)   Ground-mounted satellite vertical antenna.
      (2)   Communication devices shall be ground mounted or mounted to a
principal or accessory structure.
      (3)   Communication devices shall be located at least ten feet from a
side or rear property line, shall not be located within the front yard setback,
and may not be located within a drainage and utility easement.
      (4)   Communication devices shall comply with the setback requirements
for accessory structures.
      (5)   No communication device may exceed 12 feet in height above grade,
unless mounted to the principal structure.
      (6)   Communication devices shall be adequately screened, with
landscaping or fencing, from any adjacent residential district, right-of-way,
or private street easement at a horizontal grade level satisfactory to the
Zoning Administrator. Any communication device with a diameter measuring less
than three feet is not required to be screened if it is attached to the
principal structure.
      (7)   No more than two satellite dish antennas, no greater than three
feet in diameter, shall be permitted per lot and no more than one amateur radio
tower or ground-mounted satellite vertical antenna shall be permitted per lot.
      (8)   Satellite dish antennas shall be used for private, noncommercial
purposes.
      (9)   A building permit shall be required for any ground mounted antenna
larger than three feet in diameter.
   (E)   Construction-related temporary use.
      (1)   All model homes and temporary real estate and construction offices
shall meet the required building setbacks when located within or adjacent to a
residential district.
      (2)   Temporary parking facilities equal to two spaces per model home
dwelling unit or temporary real estate office shall be provided.
      (3)   The model home or temporary real estate and construction offices
are permitted for a period of three years or until such time as 85% of the lots
are occupied, whichever occurs first.
      (4)   At no time may a model home or temporary real estate and
construction office be used as a residence.
      (5)   A building permit shall be obtained for any model home or
construction-related trailer.
      (6)   The applicant for a model home may be required to submit a cash
bond to guarantee the conversion of the model home to a single-family home in a
timely manner if alterations to the site have occurred such as the provision of
paved parking, removal of lighting, and similar uses. Such conversion includes,
but is not limited to, the provision of landscaping, turf restoration and the
removal of parking lots, signage and lighting.
      (7)   No residential Certificate of Occupancy shall be issued for a model
home until such time as the structure has been fully converted to a residence.
   (E)   Drive-through establishment.
      (1)   Multi-lane drive-through establishments.
         (a)   A conditional use permit shall be required for all multi-lane
drive-through establishments.
         (b)   A traffic impact study shall be conducted by the city's traffic
consultant at the expense of the applicant. The traffic impact study shall
assess the potential short-term and long-term traffic impacts associated with
the proposed use on the site itself and on adjacent roadways. The traffic
impact study shall identify appropriate mitigation and/or recommendations to
offset projected impacts, which the user shall be responsible for implementing
at its sole cost.
      (2)   Food-related drive-through establishments.
         (a)   Food-related drive-through establishments shall be prohibited in
the B-2 District.
         (b)   The drive-through lane shall be designed to accommodate stacking
of at least five vehicles from the point of ordering, exclusive of required
parking and driveway areas.
         (c)   Audio equipment associated with drive-through lanes must be
designed and oriented in a manner not to be audible from adjacent properties.
   (G)   Enclosed accessory processing or manufacturing activity other than
that allowed if compliant with both of the following requirements:
      (1)   Such use(s) are allowed as a permitted use in an industrial
district; and
      (2)   Such use(s) do not constitute more than 25% of the gross floor area
of the principal use.
   (H)   Home occupation; home occupation – special; home extended business.
      (1)   This section shall not be interpreted to apply to home occupations
accessory to farming.
      (2)   General provisions. All three types of home occupations shall
comply with the following general provisions and the applicable requirement
provisions for the defined type of home occupation.
         (a)   No home occupation shall produce light, glare, noise, odor, or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property.
         (b)   No home occupation shall be conducted outside.
         (c)   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
         (d)   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the primary residential use of the premises. The residential principal
structure shall not change in character, result in incompatibility or
disturbance to the surrounding residential uses.
         (e)   No home occupation shall require alterations of the principal
structure or involve construction features not customarily found in dwellings
except where required to comply with local and state fire and police
recommendations.
         (f)   Home occupations shall not be located so as to prevent the
provision of required enclosed parking space for residential dwellings per §
155.074(B).
         (g)   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials
used for the home occupation, except personal automobiles used for the home
occupation may be parked on the site.
         (h)   The home occupation shall meet all applicable fire and building
codes.
         (i)   Exterior signage may be displayed identifying the presence of a
permitted home occupation on the property, provided it complies with the
regulations of §
155.087.
         (j)   All home occupations shall comply with the provisions of the
Chapter 91: Health and Safety; Nuisances of the city code.
         (k)   No deliveries, business related vehicle traffic, or parking
related to the home occupation use shall take place between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
         (l)   Customer visits to the home occupation shall be arranged by
appointment with no more than one customer scheduled to be on the premises at
any given point in time.
         (m)   Nonconforming uses. Existing home occupations lawfully existing
on the date of this chapter may continue as nonconforming uses. They shall,
however, be required to obtain permits for their continued operation. Any
existing home occupation that is discontinued for a period of more than 30
days, or is in violation of the ordinance provisions under which it was
initially established, shall be brought into conformity with the provisions of
this section.
         (n)   Inspection. As a condition of any home occupation application
and approval, the property owner shall grant license to the city to enter the
property for periodic inspection. The city hereby reserves the right upon
issuing any home occupation permit to inspect the premises in which the
occupation is being conducted to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
section or any conditions additionally imposed.
      (3)   Permitted home occupation.
         (a)   Permitted home occupations include, but are not limited to: art
studios, dressmaking, secretarial services, professional offices, teaching with
musical instruments, dancing, and other instructions which consist of no more
than one pupil at a time.
         (b)   The permitted home occupation shall not involve any
manufacturing which requires equipment other than found in a dwelling; teaching
which customarily consists of more than one pupil at a time; or over-the-
counter sale of merchandise produced off the premises, except for those brand
name products that are not marketed and sold in a wholesale or retail outlet.
         (c)   Permitted home occupations are allowed if the following
conditions are met:
            1.   The home occupation shall only employ persons who constantly
reside on the premises.
            2.   All permitted home occupations shall not be conducted within
any detached accessory structure.
            3.   Permitted home occupations shall not create a parking demand
in excess of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway.
         (d)   Any permitted home occupation shall be registered with the city.
This registration shall remain in effect until the home occupation is
discontinued for more than one year or violates the provisions in this section.
      (4)   Special home occupation.
         (a)   Special home occupations include uses involving frequent
clientele visits such as barber
and beauty services, photography studios, and group lessons.
         (b)   The home occupation may involve any of the following: stock-in-
trade incidental to the performance of the service, repair, or manufacturing
which requires equipment other than customarily found in a home.
         (c)   Special home occupations are allowed if the following conditions
are met:
            1.   The home occupation shall employ persons who constantly reside
on the premises, except where the applicant can satisfactorily prove unique
conditions or need for non-residential assistance and that this exception would
not compromise the intent of this chapter.
            2.   All special home occupations shall be conducted entirely
within the principal dwelling and may not be conducted in accessory buildings.
         (d)   Special home occupations may accommodate parking demands through
utilization of on-street parking if the need exceeds the space within the
existing driveway. City Council shall maintain the right to establish the
maximum number of on-street spaces permitted and increase or decrease that
maximum number when and where changing conditions require additional review.
      (5)   Home extended business.
         (a)   The minimum requirements for a home extended business shall be:
            1.   Home extended businesses shall be located on the homestead
property of the business operator.
            2.   There shall be no more than five employees in addition to the
owner/operator.
            3.   There shall be no outside storage of supplies, equipment, or
maintenance items; all work and work-related items shall be kept in an enclosed
structure.
            4.   The number of parking spaces per employee shall be set by the
City Council.
            5.   The combined area of attached and detached accessory space
utilized for a home extended business shall not exceed 10,000 square feet.
            6.   The site must be capable of supporting on-site sanitary sewer
and water facilities adequate to service the home extended business.
            7.   Working hours shall be set by the City Council.
            8.   If located on a city road, a letter of agreement containing
any dust control measures determined necessary by the city shall be provided
prior to issuance of the interim use permit and renewed annually (January 1 of
every year).
            9.   After four founded nuisance or permit violation complaints
have been made and verified with written notice to the holder of the interim
use permit, a hearing shall be called to reconsider the interim use permit
within 60 days.
   (I)   Nursery or greenhouse (retail or wholesale).
      (1)   The property must have a principal residential use.
      (2)   The land area containing such use must be a minimum of five acres
and a maximum of ten acres.
      (3)   No more than 10% of the land area shall be covered by the related
retail/wholesale buildings.
      (4)   All activities associated with this use must be set back at least
20 feet from all property lines adjacent to properties used or planned for
residential purposes, and the setback area must be maintained as green space.
      (5)   All accessory structures must be setback a minimum of 30 feet from
all property lines.
      (6)   The property must be located on a county or state road and must
maintain at least 300 feet of frontage on the road.
      (7)   The property may not access directly onto a county or state road
unless the access is at a location identified as a major intersection on the
city's comprehensive plan (usually ½ mile intersection spacing).
      (8)   The property must be connected to public sanitary sewer and water
services.
      (9)   At the sole discretion of the city, provisions for eventual
urbanization must be made in the placement of all buildings and structures. The
property owner may be required to prepare, at the owner's expense, a concept
plan illustrating how the property and adjacent properties may be developed
consistent with the city's comprehensive plan and with the zoning regulations
in Chapter 155 of the city code. The city may also require the dedication of
road or utility easements in conjunction with the issuance of the conditional
use permit if, in the determination of the city, the easements may be necessary
to serve adjacent or distant parcels with urban services (sanitary sewer,
water, roads, storm sewer) in the future or if the conditional use could serve
as a potential obstacle to the efficient provision of those services.
      (10)   If the approved commercial use is discontinued for six consecutive
months, the commercial building and all accessories to the commercial use must
be removed by the owner from the subject property; and the conditional use
permit for the commercial use shall thereafter be null and void.
      (11)   If the property has an existing greenhouse, retail or wholesale
nursery commercial use, and such commercial use is continued, a residential use
may be added only if a conditional use permit for the commercial use is issued
by the city subject and according to all the conditions set forth in this
subsection.
   (J)   Keeping of animals.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ANIMAL UNIT.
            1.   A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal waste which has as a standard the amount of waste produced
on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer.
            2.   For purposes of these regulations, the following equivalents
apply. Equivalents for other animals shall be defined by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency.
Animal Animal Units
Animal                                     Animal Units
One slaughter steer or heifer (all cattle) 1.0
One mature dairy cow                       1.4
One swine over 55 pounds                   0.4
One sheep                                  0.1
One turkey                                 0.018
One chicken                                0.01
One duck                                   0.02
One horse                                  1.0
 
      (2)   Livestock and other animals.
         (a)   Livestock, poultry, and farm animals shall only be kept on
residential lots at least four acres in size or in an agricultural district of
the city. Animals shall be allowed at a maximum density of .50 animal unit per
acre. These restrictions shall not apply to normal farm operations existing
prior to the adoption of this chapter. Livestock shall include those animals
listed in provision (J)(1) above under the definition of "agricultural use."
         (b)   The permitted animal density shall be governed by any applicable
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency regulation and the city's feedlot ordinance.
         (c)   Any building where livestock, farm animals, and poultry are
kept, open feedlots, and solid manure storage areas, including short term
stockpiling sites, shall be setback a distance of 100 feet from the property
line or road easement and shall conform to the setbacks listed in §
155.065.
         (d)   Setbacks from dwelling units shall be maintained as outlined in
§
155.065. For regulations regarding pre-ordinance feedlots and post-ordinance
feedlots, see §
155.065(B)(8)(b)(2).
         (e)   The manure from livestock and domestic pets shall be properly
treated and disposed of with best management practices and shall not be allowed
to accumulate in any manner which may cause public health problems.
         (f)   The keeping of more than two dogs on any parcel for any reason
shall be deemed a kennel. Kennels are permitted only to those holding a kennel
license.
   (K)   Open or outdoor storage.
      (1)   The city shall determine the height and type of outdoor storage
that is compatible with the principal structure.
      (2)   The use shall meet the following criteria:
         (a)   The storage area shall be fenced and/or screened from view of
adjacent properties and public right-of-way in compliance with §
155.076.
         (b)   The storage area shall be improved according to §
155.074.
         (c)   The storage area shall not take up parking space(s) as required
for conformity to this chapter.
         (d)   The area used for outdoor storage shall be limited to 20% of the
lot.
         (e)   On properties adjacent to State Highway 241 and Ogren Avenue NE,
the outdoor storage use shall be located on the opposite side of the building
from these roadways and between the outside walls of the principal building.
   (L)   Outdoor dining.
      (1)   The outdoor dining area shall be delineated by a fence, barriers,
or landscaping approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Pedestrian access shall comply with all ADA accessibility
regulations.
      (3)   Garbage and debris shall be cleaned up and disposed of daily.
      (4)   Outdoor storage of items in the dining area is prohibited.
   (M)   Outdoor temporary seasonal sales.
      (1)   No portion of this use shall take place within any public right-of-
way or landscaped areas.
      (2)   Parking and display areas associated with the sale shall not
distract or interfere with existing business operations or traffic circulation
patterns.
      (3)   The site shall be kept in a neat and orderly manner and display of
items shall be as compact
as possible so as to not interfere with existing businesses, parking or
driveway operations.
      (4)   Sales merchandise trailers, temporary stands, etc., shall be
located on an asphalt or concrete surface.
      (5)   One temporary sign not to exceed 24 square feet in area and not
more than six feet in height shall be allowed.
      (6)   The owner/operator of the outdoor temporary/seasonal sales shall
have the written permission of the current property owner to locate on the
site.
      (7)   The owner/operator of the outdoor temporary/seasonal sales shall
comply with a daily clean-up program approved by the city.
   (N)   Open sales lot.
      (1)   Open sales lots are limited to 30% of the gross oor area of the
principal use.
      (2)   Outside sales lots shall be fenced or screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or any abutting residential district in compliance
with §
155.076.
   (O)   Seasonal storage.
      (1)   The property on which the seasonal storage use is located shall be
owner-occupied.
      (2)   All seasonal storage shall be indoors.
      (3)   Hours of operation are limited to 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m.
      (4)   There shall be no storage of commercial vehicles and/or equipment.
      (5)   No additional signage is permitted for this use.
   (P)   Solar energy system.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (2)   Height. A solar energy system must comply with the following height
requirements:
         (a)   A building- or roof-mounted solar energy system shall not exceed
the maximum allowed height for the zoning district in which the system is
located.
         (b)   A ground- or pole-mounted solar energy system shall not exceed
ten feet in height when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (3)   Setbacks and yard requirements.
         (a)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems.
            1.   Any roof-mounted solar energy system shall comply with all
building setback requirements in the applicable zoning district.
            2.   The collector surface and mounting devices for each roof-
mounted solar energy system shall be set back from the edge of the roof of the
structure upon which the system is located a minimum distance as required by
the Building Official.
            3.   Exterior piping for a solar hot water system may extend beyond
the perimeter of the building on a side or rear yard exposure.
      (b)   Ground- or pole-mounted solar energy systems.
            1.   Any ground- or pole-mounted solar energy system shall comply
with all accessory structure setbacks in the applicable zoning district.
            2.   No system shall extend into the setbacks when oriented at
minimum design tilt.
            3.   In addition to the accessory structure setbacks, residential
systems located within the residential zoning districts shall be located in the
rear yard.
            4.   Residential systems located within the agricultural zoning
districts shall be setback not less than 75 feet, or half the distance from the
principal structure to a public right-of-way or road easement, whichever is
greater, and meet the required side and rear yard setbacks for accessory
structures.
            5.   Solar energy systems shall not be included in the calculation
of total square footage of accessory space allowed, as found in §
155.067(3)(B).
         (c)   Solar energy systems located in the shoreland district shall
meet the minimum structure setbacks as required in §
155.053. Solar panels no larger than four square feet on boat lifts shall be
permitted.
      (4)   Aesthetics. A roof-mounted solar energy system shall incorporate
the following design requirements:
         (a)   Equipment. Solar energy equipment (i.e. boxes, wiring, and
conduit) shall be installed inside walls and attic spaces where feasible to
reduce their visual impact. If solar equipment is visible from the public
right-of-way, it shall match the color of the materials of the structure to
which it is affixed.
         (b)   Pitched roofs. Panels must be mounted flush with the roof pitch
and be no higher than six inches above the roof plane they are attached to.
         (c)   Flat roofs. Solar panels affixed to a flat roof shall be placed
below the line of sight from a public right-of-way.
      (5)   Coverage. The surface area of a pole- or ground-mount system shall
not exceed the requirements set forth in the following table:
   Table 6.3 Maximum Surface Area Coverage of Pole- or Ground-Mounted Solar
Systems
 
Lot Size (Acre) Maximum Surface Area (sq. ft.)
Less than 1.00  400 sq. ft.
1.00 to 1.99    600 sq. ft.
2.00 to 2.99    800 sq. ft.
3.00 to 3.99    1,000 sq. ft.
4.00 to 4.99    1,200 sq. ft.
5.00 or greater 1,400 sq. ft.
 
      (6)   Application materials required.
         (a)   Application. An application for a solar energy system shall be
accompanied by to-scale horizontal and vertical (elevation) drawings. The
drawings must show the location of the system on the building for a roof
mounted system or the location of the system upon the property for a ground-
mount system, including the property lines.
            1.   Pitched roof-mounted solar energy system. The drawings for a
roof-mounted system upon a pitched roof must show the elevation of the highest
finished slope of the solar collector and the slope of the finished roof
surface on which it is mounted.
            2.   Flat roof-mounted solar energy system. The drawings for a
roof-mounted system upon a flat roof must show the distance to the roof edge
and any parapets on the building and shall identify the height of the building
on the street frontage side, the shortest distance of the system from the
street frontage edge of the building, and the highest finished height of the
solar collector above the finished surface of the roof.
      (7)   Compliance with other codes. All solar energy systems shall comply
with requirements imposed by the City Building Official and with requirements
set forth in the Minnesota State Electrical Code.
      (8)   Utility notification. No solar energy system shall be installed
until written evidence has been given to the Zoning Administrator establishing
that the owner of the property upon which the system is located has notified
the utility company of the intent to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Off-grid systems are exempt from this requirement.
      (9)   Abandonment. A ground- or pole-mounted solar energy system shall be
considered abandoned after one year without energy production. A solar energy
system and its related accessory facilities shall be removed within 60 days
after written notice by the city that the solar energy system has been deemed
abandoned.
   (Q)   Swimming pools.
      (1)   No person shall construct, alter or renovate a swimming pool
without an approved building permit. The application for a permit must include
the following:
         (a)   Complete plans and specifications for the construction of the
pool.
         (b)   A site plan showing the distance of the proposed swimming pool
from the property lines, existing structures on the lot, including the house,
garage, and fences, retaining walls, trees, overhead and underground wiring,
utility easements; any on-site sewer system and other significant features.
         (c)   The proposed location of pumps, filters, motors, electrical
power source, if any, ushing and drainage outlets, and other operational
features.
         (d)   Location and specifications of protective fencing, including a
construction fence.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Swimming pools shall not be located beneath utility lines nor
over underground utility lines of any type.
         (b)   Swimming pools shall be set back at least ten feet from any side
property line, 15 feet from any rear property line, and ten feet from any
principal structure, excluding uncovered decks.
         (c)   Swimming pools shall not be located in the front yard or closer
to the front property line than the principal structure. On corner lots, the
swimming pool is permitted to be located in the side front yard and must meet
the required front setback.
         (d)   No swimming pool shall be located within ten feet of any portion
of a septic tank or within 20 feet of an area designated as a drain field,
alternate drain field, or well.
         (e)   No pool shall be located within any public or private utility
easement, ingress or egress easement, swale, or existing drainage areas which
may be affected by 100-year rain event levels, wetlands, floodplains or other
location in which it will represent a threat to the natural environment.
      (3)   Fence requirements.
         (a)   All swimming pools shall be completely enclosed by a type of
fence meeting the following general requirements:
            1.   The fence shall be of the non-climbing type, so as not to be
penetrable by toddlers and afford no external handholds or footholds.
            2.   The bottom of the fence shall be no higher than four inches
above grade at any given point.
            3.   All fence openings or points of entry into the pool area
enclosure shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching gates. The
self-latching device must be placed at the top of the gate or so it is
inaccessible to small children.
            4.   All swimming pool fences shall meet the regulations set forth
in §
155.075.
         (b)   Construction fence. A construction fence shall completely
enclose any in-ground pool preceding the erection of a permanent fence
described in division (3)(a) above. The construction fence shall be a minimum
of six feet in height, made of snow fence-like or similar design and be
securely anchored in place with its base flush to the ground. It must have
supportive posts placed no more than eight feet apart and remain in place until
a permanent fence completely enclosing the swimming pool is installed. No
swimming pool, even though containing water for construction purposes, shall be
occupied or used at any time prior to the installation of a permanent fence.
         (c)   Alternative fencing for in-ground pools. A safety fence at least
six feet in height shall completely enclose any in-ground swimming pool. As an
alternative to a safety fence, an automatic pool cover may be utilized if it
meets the standards of F1346-91 (reapproved 1996) of American Society of
Testing and Materials (ASTM), as such standards may be modified, superseded, or
replaced by ASTM, if all of the following requirements are met:
            1.   The property on which the in-ground pool is located is zoned
A-1 Agricultural;
            2.   The property upon which the in-ground pool is located does not
abut a residential zoning district;
            3.   The property upon which the in-ground pool is located is five
acres or larger in area; and
            4.   The in-ground pool is set back a minimum of 150 feet from the
side and rear property lines and 300 feet from an existing non-owner-occupied
dwelling. The 150- foot setback may be waived if the side or rear lot line of
the parcel upon which the in-ground pool is located is adjacent to a public
body of water as identified on the Minnesota DNR Public Water Inventory Map and
the required minimum shoreland setbacks are met.
         (d)   Above-ground pools. A fence at least four feet in height shall
completely enclose any above-ground swimming pool.
         (e)   Above-ground pools with accessory decks. If an accessory deck is
constructed within three feet of any part of the above-ground swimming pool,
the deck shall be required to install a minimum 36-inch-high guard rail. The
guard rail shall be constructed so no space within it is wider than four
inches. All openings or points of entry into the above-ground pool shall be
equipped with self-closing and self-latching gates.
         (f)   Outdoor spas and hot tubs. Outdoor spas and hot tubs of any size
must be covered when not in use and shall have a latchable cover or be
surrounded by a four-foot non-climbing fence. The cover should be constructed
of a material not to be penetrable by toddlers and is subject to the inspection
by the Building Official or designee.
      (4)   Miscellaneous requirements.
         (a)   Conduct. The conduct of persons and the operation of pools is
the responsibility of the owner or the tenant thereof, and such conduct of
persons and operation of the pool shall be done in such a manner so as to avoid
any nuisance or breach of peace, and it shall be unlawful to allow loud noise
to go beyond the boundaries of the property upon which the pool is located to
adjacent property.
         (b)   Drainage. All back flushing water or pool drainage water shall
be directed onto the property of the owner or onto approved drainage ways, such
as street curb, ditches, storm sewers, and storm water ponds.
         (c)   Lighting. Any outdoor lighting of the pool may not spill or
shine upon adjacent properties. For all underground pool lights and above
ground plug-in motors, compliance with the Electrical Code is required.
   (R)   Unsurfaced parking lot.
      (1)   Fire lanes shall be protected from parked vehicles.
      (2)   Grading and erosion control shall be reviewed and approved by City
Engineer.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.071 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Dust. The emission of dust, fly ash, or other particulate matter by
any use shall be in compliance with and regulated by the State of Minnesota
Pollution Control Standards, as amended.
   (B)   Odors. The emission of odor by any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, as amended.
   (C)   Noise. The emission of noise by any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota
Rules Chapter 7030, as amended.
   (D)   Smoke. The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the State of Minnesota Pollution Control Standards as amended.
   (E)   Junk or refuse. Any scrap, waste, reclaimable material, or debris,
whether or not stored or used in conjunction with dismantling, processing,
salvaging, baling, disposal, or other use or disposition, is considered junk
and shall be disposed of. The piling of junk in yards in all districts shall be
considered to be a nonconforming use and shall be removed within a period of
three months after the effective date of this chapter.
   (F)   Waste.
      (1)   All waste material shall be disposed of in a manner consistent with
all Minnesota State Fire Marshal and Pollution Control Agency rules. No waste
shall be washed into the public storm sewer system nor the sanitary sewer
system.
      (2)   Waste material resulting from or used in commercial servicing,
processing, or trimming shall not be washed into the public storm sewer system
nor the sanitary sewer system, but shall be disposed of in a manner approved by
the Minnesota State Fire Marshal and the Pollution Control Agency.
   (G)   Bulk storage (liquid). All uses associated with the bulk storage of
all gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemical, flammable, and similar liquids,
shall meet all requirements identified by the City Building Official and Fire
Marshal.
   (H)   Radiation emission. All activities that emit radioactivity shall
comply with the minimum requirements of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (I)   Electrical emission. All activities which create electrical emissions
shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Federal Communications
Commission.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.072 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY.
   (A)   On corner lots, no structure or planting in excess of 30 inches above
the street center line grade shall be permitted within a triangular area
defined as the greater of the following:
      (1)   Within 30 feet of any corner formed by the intersection of two
streets (public or private) as measured from the intersecting curb lines; or
      (2)   Within 15 feet of any corner formed by the intersection of two
streets (public or private) as measured from the intersecting property lines.
   Figure 7.1 Corner Lot Visibility
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2172.png]
 
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.073 ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Prohibited construction. No building shall be constructed of steel
(except horizontal steel lap siding), iron, sheet aluminum, corrugated aluminum
or plain, flat, unpainted concrete block (walls or roofs), except in the A-
1 Zoning District.
   (B)   Compatibility with surrounding property. Buildings in all zoning
districts shall maintain a high
standard of architectural and aesthetic compatibility with surrounding
properties to ensure that they will not adversely impact the property values of
the abutting properties or adversely impact the community's public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (C)   Exterior finish materials.
      (1)   Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials comparable in
grade and quality to the following:
         (a)   Brick;
         (b)   Natural stone;
         (c)   Decorative concrete block;
         (d)   Professionally designed pre-cast concrete units if the surfaces
have been integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture,
block and if incorporated in a building design which is compatible with other
development throughout the district;
         (e)   Wood, vinyl, steel, or aluminum or fiber cement lap siding,
provided the surfaces are finished for exterior use and proven to have exterior
durability;
         (f)   Glass curtain wall panels;
         (g)   Stucco, cementitious coating; and
         (h)   Architectural standing-seam metal panels for accents and roofs
only.
      (2)   If any of the following materials are used, they may constitute no
more than 80% of the building elevation facing a roadway or other planned
roads. The remaining 20% must be of a different color, material, or
architectural relief provided that the visual effect of this relief is deemed
substantially similar to a change in color or material.
         (a)   Decorative concrete block whose color and texture is integral to
the material; and
         (b)   Textured or architecturally treated concrete masonry units, or
panels, if either sealed or painted in a manner guaranteed by the manufacturer
against blistering, peeling, cracking, flaking, checking or chipping for a
minimum of five years.
      (3)   Acceptable accent materials. To satisfy the requirements of the
remaining 20% of a building's surface area, the following accent materials are
acceptable:
         (a)   Any of the permitted materials listed in (C)(1) above; and
         (b)   Wood, if sealed or treated in a manner guaranteed for a minimum
of five years.
      (4)   The City Council may approve additional building materials on a
case-by-case basis, provided that such materials exhibit the structural
strength and permanency desired, contain sufficient architectural relief, and
do not detract from the desired aesthetic character of the building and the
surrounding area.
   (D)   Non-residential buildings.
      (1)   Evaluation of the appearance of a project shall be based on the
quality of its design and the relationship to its surroundings.
      (2)   Buildings shall have good scale and be in harmonious conformance
with permanent neighboring development.
      (3)   Materials shall have good architectural character and shall be
selected for harmony with adjoining buildings.
      (4)   Materials shall be of durable quality.
      (5)   Building components, such as windows, doors, eaves and parapets
shall have good proportions and relationships to one another.
      (6)   Colors shall be harmonious and shall only use compatible accents.
      (7)   Exterior lighting shall be part of the architectural concept.
Fixtures, standards, and all exposed accessories shall be harmonious with
building design.
      (8)   Monotony of design in single or multiple building projects shall be
avoided. Variation of detail, form, and siting shall be used to provide visual
interest. In multiple building projects, variable siting or individual
buildings may be used to prevent monotonous appearance.
      (9)   Subsequent minor additions shall be constructed of materials
comparable in quality and appearance to those used in the original construction
and shall be designed in a manner conforming with the original architectural
design and general appearance, except when facing a public right-of-way. When a
subsequent addition faces a public right-of-way, the sides facing public right-
of-way shall be constructed of materials listed in provision (C) above, or a
combination of these materials and existing building materials as determined
satisfactory by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Illuminated architectural features. All illuminated architectural
features ("Features") or portions thereof, not defined as signage or a canopy
sign, shall not count towards overall signage and shall meet the following
standards:
      (1)   Features shall include, but not be limited to, wall, roof and
window mounted linear lighting, the wall surface between multiple rows of
linear lighting, illuminated sign bands, backlit canopies, awnings or wall
banding features.
      (2)   The color, illumination or intensity of these features shall not
change. No scrolling, ashing, continuous movement or other motion shall be
permitted.
      (3)   Features may only be illuminated during business hours or until 11:
00 p.m., whichever is later.
      (4)   No feature shall exceed a maximum illumination of 0.3 (3/10th)
candelas above ambient light levels, measured from a distance of 50 feet.
      (5)   Each feature must have a light sensing device that will adjust the
brightness of the display as the natural ambient light conditions change.
      (6)   Features are not permitted on sides of buildings immediately
adjacent to residential properties, unless across the street.
   (F)   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment, solar panels, vents, and stacks
shall be minimized and positioned so that they will not be seen from public
rights-of-way or adjacent residential properties. If the city determines that
is not feasible, and the equipment is visible from public rights-of-way or
adjacent residential properties, the equipment shall be screened with parapet
walls or encasements colored similar to the building in a manner that
eliminates reflections.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.074 DRIVEWAYS, PARKING, AND LOADING.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Exemptions from parking requirements. All existing business uses
located within the B-2 District shall be exempt from the off-street parking and
loading requirements of this section; the city may reduce required parking for
new business uses downtown if in the city's sole determination there is
sufficient public parking available.
      (2)   Change of use or occupancy.
         (a)   Change of use or occupancy of land. Any change of use or
occupancy of land already dedicated to a parking area, parking spaces, or
loading spaces shall not be made, nor shall any sale of land, division, or
subdivision of land be made which reduces area necessary for parking, parking
stalls, or parking requirements below the minimum prescribed by this chapter.
Off-street parking and loading spaces shall not be reduced in number or size
unless the number or size of remaining parking spaces exceed the requirements
set forth herein for a similar new use.
         (b)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. Any intensification,
change of use, or occupancy of any building or buildings, including additions
thereto, requiring more parking area shall not be permitted until there is
furnished such additional parking spaces as required by this chapter.
      (3)   All property shall be entitled to at least one driveway access.
Residential dwelling units shall be limited to one driveway access per
property.
      (4)   Use of required area. Required off-street parking spaces in any
district shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or rental of goods,
storage of inoperable vehicles, and/or storage of snow.
      (5)   There shall be no off-street parking within 15 feet of any street
surface.
      (6)   Parking of vehicles. No unlicensed or nonfunctioning motor,
delivery, or service vehicle(s) shall be parked or stored outside of any
building. Only licensed and operable delivery and service vehicles may be
parked overnight outside of a building on any lot and in the rear yard.
   (B)   Driveways and parking for single-unit detached, twinhome, duplex, and
attached townhouse or rowhouse dwellings
      (1)   One enclosed garage at least 440 square feet in area, with a
minimum interior width of 18 feet, shall be provided for each unit. Two single
stall garages with each stall at least 220 square feet in area with minimum
width of ten feet, excluding stairways, landings, and utility areas, shall also
be considered as meeting this requirement.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   Required off-street parking shall be on the same lot under the
same ownership as the principal use being served, except under the provisions
of division (H) below.
         (b)   All residential parking and driveway areas shall maintain a
minimum setback of five feet from side property lines, except the driveway
access. A zero-foot setback is permitted on the shared wall property line for
twinhomes and attached townhouse or rowhouse dwellings.
         (c)   Turn-around pads must be set back a minimum of ten feet from a
front property line and five feet from a side property line.
         (d)   All parking shall be prohibited in any portion of the front yard
except that part of a designated driveway leading directly into a garage or to
an off-drive parking area (as defined in provision (B)(2)(e) below, that is not
located between the front of the principal structure and the front property
line.
         (e)   Off-drive parking area. One off-drive parking area is permitted
adjacent to the garage, away from the principal use, except on the street side
of a corner lot. The off-drive parking area may begin to transition to full
width at a 45-degree angle outside of the driveway access (curb cut) area. The
off-drive parking area must meet the setbacks in provision (B)(2)(b) above.
         (f)   Within the first 30 feet of any residential lot adjacent to the
right-of-way, the maximum driveway angle from the street shall be no greater
than 45 degrees, with the exception of a ten-foot by 20-foot turn-around pad
for lots with direct access onto any collector or principal/minor arterial
roads, as identified in the city's transportation plan.
         (g)   The diagrams below are only intended to depict driveway and
parking that complies with the requirements set forth in provisions (B)(2) (a)
through (B)(2)(f) above.
   Figure 7.2 Residential Driveway Requirements
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2174.png]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bfb59530a25aa41c6d071dff3eed5c1627a9e96d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2176.png]
      (3)   Driveway access (curb cuts).
         (a)   No residential driveway access shall be located less than 40
feet from the intersection of two or more street rights-of-way. This distance
shall be measured from the intersection of lot lines.
         (b)   No driveway width shall exceed the following:
   Table 7.1 Maximum Driveway Width Within the Street Right-of-Way
 
Street Type                          Maximum Driveway Width within ROW
Public Street                         
   - Lots less than 55 feet wide  25 feet
   - Lots 55 feet wide or greater 30 feet
Culs-de-sac                           
   - 2 or fewer driveway accesses 30 feet
   - 3 or more driveway accesses  25 feet
 
      (4)   Surfacing.
         (a)   Designated driveways leading directly into a garage or off-
street parking area shall be surfaced with brick, concrete, or bituminous
material from the public road to the front of the garage or off-street parking
area.
         (b)   Any additional areas permitted for off-street parking shall be
surfaced with brick, concrete, or bituminous material. In the R-2 Zoning
District, driveway areas that transition from the designated surfaced driveway
at a 45-degree angle leading to an off-street parking area may be surfaced with
rock material.
         (c)   All surfacing must be completed within one year of building
permit issuance and prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
      (5)   Passenger vehicles and commercial vehicles of a gross capacity of
15,000 pounds or less.
         (a)   The following vehicles may be parked on an established driveway
or parking area that is surfaced in compliance with provision (B)(4) above:
            1.   Off-street parking of licensed passenger automobiles/trucks;
and
            2.   No more than one commercial vehicle or trailer not exceeding
15,000 pounds gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) or a length of 24 feet from
front to back or a height of nine feet from top to bottom, may be permitted on
an established driveway or parking area that is surfaced in compliance with
[text missing].
         (b)   These restrictions shall not apply to recreational vehicles.
         (c)   For the purposes of the measurement of vehicle dimensions, the
"height" of a vehicle shall be the vertical distance between the lowest part of
the tires of the measured vehicle to the top of the highest part of the
vehicle. The "length" of a vehicle shall be the horizontal distance between the
front edge of the vehicle to the rear edge of the vehicle. For purposes of
these measurements, accessories, attachments, and materials fixed or carried
upon such vehicle shall be considered part of the vehicle, with the exception
of aerial antennas.
         (d)   Exceptions. Off-street parking of one commercial vehicle with no
restriction on the gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) and of one commercial
trailer (enclosed or unenclosed) may temporarily occur in conjunction with a
temporary service including, but not limited to, a construction or remodeling
project benefitting the premises, provided they are parked on an established
driveway or parking area that is surfaced in compliance with provision (B)(4)
above.
   (C)   Driveways and parking for multi-unit residential, commercial,
industrial, and public/institutional uses.
      (1)   Location. All off-street parking facilities required by this
chapter shall be located and restricted as follows:
         (a)   Required off-street parking shall be on the same lot under the
same ownership as the principal use being served, except under the provisions
of division (H) below.
         (b)   A setback of ten feet from all lot lines shall be maintained,
except in the following circumstances:
            1.   A shared parking arrangement has been established.
            2.   For commercial and industrial properties, the combined parking
areas and drive aisles adjacent to collector or arterial street frontage shall
be set back an average of 20 feet, but no less than ten feet.
            3.   Parking shall be set back a minimum of 20 feet from properties
planned residential.
      (2)   Stall, aisle, and driveway design.
         (a)   Surfacing. Off-street parking, storage, and loading areas shall
have a brick, concrete, or bituminous surface, and poured-in-place curb and
gutter, graded and drained to dispose of all surface water. Storage areas that
provide screening according to §
155.076 may be allowed an aggregate surface, but the area must have curb and
gutter. Weather permitting; all surfacing should occur prior to an occupancy
permit. Plans for surfacing and drainage of driveways and stalls for five or
more vehicles shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and written
approval.
         (b)   Parking space size. Each parking space shall not be less than
the following:
   Table 7.2 Minimum Parking Space Size
 
Parking Type      Stall Width (ft.) Stall Depth (ft.) Aisle Width (ft.)
Standard Parking* 9                 20                N/A
Parallel Parking  9                 18                12
Diagonal Parking  10                20                22
Handicap Parking                                     
Parallel          12                18                12
Diagonal          12                20                22
* Stall depth may be reduced down to 18 feet where parking is adjacent to
the curb and a vehicle can overhang, as approved by the City Engineer.
 
         (c)   Circulation in parking areas. Parking areas shall be designed so
that circulation between parking bays or aisles occurs within the designated
parking lot and does not depend upon a public street or alley. Parking area
design which requires backing into the public street is prohibited.
         (d)   No driveway access shall be located less than 60 feet from the
intersection of two or more street rights-of-way. This distance shall be
measured from the intersection of lot lines.
         (e)   The maximum driveway width within the right-of-way for attached
townhouses shall be equal to the width of the garage, up to 30 feet.
         (f)   Parking lots containing 20 or more spaces shall be landscaped
according to §
155.076.
      (3)   Striping. All parking stalls shall be marked with white or yellow
paint lines not less than four inches wide.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining property,
abutting residential uses, and public rights-of- way and be in compliance with
§
155.033.
      (5)   Signs. No sign shall be so located as to restrict the sight lines
and orderly operation and traffic movement within any parking lot.
      (6)   Landscaping. Grass, plantings, or surfacing material shall be
provided in all locations bordering the off-street parking area, including
required setback areas.
      (7)   Required screening. All open, off-street parking areas of five or
more spaces shall be screened and landscaped from abutting residential
districts in compliance with §
155.076.
      (8)   Maintenance. It shall be the joint and several responsibility of
the lessee and owner of the principal use, uses, or building to maintain in a
neat and adequate manner the parking space, accessways, striping, landscaping,
and required screening.
   (D)   Driveways and parking in Agricultural Districts (A-1, AP).
      (1)   Location. All off-street parking facilities required by this
chapter shall be located and restricted as follows:
         (a)   Required off-street parking shall be on the same lot under the
same ownership as the principal use being served.
         (b)   All parking, driveway, and turn-around areas shall maintain a
minimum setback of five feet from any property line.
         (c)   For residential properties, no more than 40% of the area of the
front yard shall be covered by impervious surfaces (driveway, sidewalk, and
patios).
   (E)   Parking spaces required.
      (1)   Calculating spaces.
         (a)   When determining the number of off-street parking spaces results
in a fraction, each fraction of one-half or more shall constitute another
space.
         (b)   In places of public assembly in which patrons or spectators
occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating facilities, each 22 inches of
seating facilities shall be counted as one seat for the purpose of determining
requirements.
         (c)   Except as hereinafter may be provided, should a structure
contain two or more types of use, each use shall be calculated separately for
determining the total off-street parking spaces required.
         (d)   Except as hereinafter may be provided, the term "floor area" for
the purpose of calculating the number of off-street parking spaces required
shall be determined on the basis of the exterior floor area dimensions of the
building, structure, or use times the number of floors, minus 10%.
      (2)   The following minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be
provided and maintained by ownership, easement and/or lease for and during the
life of the respective uses hereinafter set forth. When computing total number
of parking spaces required for a use, individual activities within the use
shall be calculated separately and added together to arrive at the total
required parking spaces for each specified use proposed.
   Table 7.3 Parking Spaces Required for Residential Uses
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use          Parking Spaces Required
Single-unit
detached
dwelling,
manufactured 2 enclosed spaces per unit1
home,
twinhome, or
duplex
Dwelling,
three- to    2 enclosed spaces per unit plus ½ space per unit for visitor parking1
four-unit
Dwelling,
attached     2 enclosed spaces per unit plus ½ space per unit for visitor parking1
townhouse or
rowhouse
             1.25 space per studio or 1 bedroom unit
Dwelling,    1.75 spaces per 2 bedroom unit
apartment    2 spaces for 3+ bedroom unit
             At least 1 space per unit shall be enclosed. An additional ½ space per unit
             shall be provided for visitor parking.
Senior (55+)
exclusive    1.5 space per unit
independent
living
Residential
facilities
(including
assisted
living,
long-term    1 space per 3 client rooms
care,
transitional
care, and
residential
care)
Hotel or     1.25 spaces per guest room
motel
1   Enclosed parking spaces shall meet the following standards:
   (a)   If a single garage provides all required enclosed spaces for one unit, the
garage shall be at least 440 square feet in size, with a minimum interior width of 18
feet.
   (b)   If multiple single-stall garages are used to provide all required enclosed
spaces for one unit, single-stall garage be at least 220 square feet in area with a
minimum interior width of 10 feet.
   (c)   Stairways, landings, and utility areas shall not count toward the minimum garage
size required.
 
Table 7.4 Parking Spaces Required - Non-Residential Units
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        1 space for each 5 students based on
Adult education and training facility   design capacity plus 1 space for each
                                        classroom
Adult use                               1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
                                        1 space for each 3 people in the
                                        assembly area(s) - which shall be
                                        calculated based on fixed seats (one
                                        seat equals 22 inches of bench space)
                                        or if there are no fixed seats, then
Animal-related use (commercial stable,  the capacity of the assembly area(s)
kennel)                                 shall be calculated according to the
                                        Building Code as adopted by the city,
                                        plus parking calculated separately for
                                        additional uses such as offices,
                                        classrooms, daycares, meeting rooms and
                                        others that are used simultaneously
                                        with the main assembly area(s)
                                        1 space for each 400 square feet of
Auto repair, major or minor             gross floor area. This parking shall be
                                        in addition to repair bays
Brewpub                                 1 space per 200 square feet of gross
                                        floor area
                                        6 spaces per doctor/dentist/therapist,
Clinic                                  plus 1 space per 200 square feet of
                                        floor area
                                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor area. If more than 50% of
Commercial center                       the building is a restaurant use, the
                                        square footage must be calculated as
                                        individual uses
                                        50 spaces per field or sports court
Commercial recreation - outdoor         plus 1 space per 3 fixed seats for
                                        spectator area
                                        1 space per classroom, plus additional
                                        spaces necessary to accommodate the
Day care center                         parking of vans and buses used for
                                        client transport by the center and 1
                                        off-street loading space per 5 children
Government administrative or service    1 space for each 200 square feet of
use                                     gross floor area
Hospital                                1 space for every 400 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Laboratory, research, and/or            1 space for each 200 square feet of
development facility                    gross floor area
                                        1 space for each 500 square feet of
Manufacturing                           gross floor area, plus 1 space for each
                                        company-owned truck (if not stored
                                        inside principal building)
Microbrewery & taproom                  1 space for each 150 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
                                        1 space for each 200 square feet of
Off-site service business               office space plus 1 space for each
                                        company-owned truck stored outdoors
Pawn shop                               1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Pet store                               1 space for each 200 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Pre school                              1 space per 3 children of licensed
                                        capacity of the facility
Professional office/services            3 space plus at least 1 space for each
                                        200 square feet of floor area
                                        1 space for each 15 square feet of
                                        counter area, 1 space for each 40
Restaurant                              square feet of sit-down dining area,
                                        and 1 space for each 80 square feet of
                                        kitchen area
Retail mixed use                        Uses calculated separately
Retail nursery, greenhouse, or tree     1 space for each 200 square feet of
farm                                    retail area
Retail sales and service business with  1 space for each 200 square feet of
50% or more of gross floor area devoted retail area plus 1 space for each 500
to storage and/or warehouses            square feet of storage area
Retail sales and service, standalone    1 space for each 200 square feet of
store                                   gross floor area
                                        K-8: 1 space for each classroom plus 1
                                        additional space for each 50 student
                                        capacity, in addition to other uses
                                        which shall be calculated separately
School                                  9-college and private schools without
                                        bussing: 1 space for each 5 students
                                        based on design capacity plus 1 space
                                        for each classroom, in addition to
                                        other uses which shall be calculated
                                        separately
Self-storage facility                   1 space per 1,000 square feet of
                                        storage space
                                        4 spaces plus 2 space for each service
Vehicle fuel, service, or wash          stall
                                        Car washes shall provide at least 5
                                        space per each wash stand
Vehicle sales and rental                1 space for each 40 0square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Veterinary clinic                       3 spaces plus at least 1 space for each
                                        200 square feet of floor area
Warehousing - non explosive materials/  1 space for each 2,000 square feet of
equipment                               gross floor area
Wholesale trade establishment           1 space for each 1,250 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
 
      (3)   Conversion of parking spaces. No building permit shall be issued to
convert any parking structure or space into a dwelling unit or living area or
other activity until other adequate provisions are made to comply with the
required off-street parking provisions of this section.
   (F)   Proof of parking. If it is clearly demonstrated by the owner that the
required parking is in excess of the actual demand, and the City Council
approves, all of the required parking need not be initially constructed. The
remainder of the parking spaces not initially needed, as shown on the site
plan, are to be constructed by the owner when the city determines that the
additional parking spaces are needed. The area of future parking must be sodded
and kept free of buildings, shrubs and trees.
   (G)   Joint facilities. The City Council may allow for one or more uses to
provide the required off-street parking facilities by joint use of one or more
sites where the total number of spaces provided is less than the sum of the
total required for each use should they provide them separately.
      (1)   When considering a request for such a permit, the Council shall not
approve such a permit except when the following conditions are found to exist:
         (a)   The building or use for which application is being made to
utilize the off- street parking facilities provided by another building or use
shall be located within 300 feet of such parking facilities.
         (b)   The applicant shall show that there is no substantial conflict
in the principal operating hours of the two buildings or uses for which joint
use of off-street parking facilities is proposed.
         (c)   A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off-street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the City Attorney, shall be filed with the City
Administrator and recorded with the County Recorder's Office.
      (2)   The setback for a joint off-street parking facility may be reduced
to zero if immediately adjacent to the shared lot line.
   (H)   Off-site parking.
      (1)   Any off-site parking which is used to meet the requirements of this
chapter shall be a conditional use as regulated by §
155.094 and shall be subject to the conditions listed below.
      (2)   Off-site parking shall be developed and maintained in compliance
with all requirements and standards of this chapter.
      (3)   Reasonable public access from off-site parking facilities to the
use being served shall be provided.
      (4)   The site used for meeting the off-site parking requirements of this
chapter shall be under the same control as the principal use being served or
under public ownership. Any use which depends upon off-site parking to meet the
requirements of this chapter shall maintain ownership or leasehold control and
parking utilization of the off-site location until such time as on-site parking
is provided or a site in closer proximity to the principal use is acquired and
developed for parking.
      (5)   Off-site parking for non-residential uses shall not be located more
than 300 feet from the main entrance of the principal use being served. No more
than one main entrance shall be recognized for each principal building.
   (I)   Loading.
      (1)   Off-street loading required. Any structure erected or substantially
altered for a use which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles shall provide off-street loading
space as required for a new structure.
      (2)   Number of loading areas required. The number of required off-street
loading areas shall be as follows:
         (a)   Non-residential buildings and uses, except when located in any
residential or public-institutional zoning district: For each building one
loading area and one additional area for each additional 10,000 square feet of
gross floor area or fraction thereof is required.
      (3)   Size. Unless otherwise specified in this chapter, the first loading
area shall be not less than 70 feet in length and additional berths required
shall be not less than 30 feet in length and all loading berths shall be not
less than ten feet in width and 14 feet in height, exclusive of aisle and
maneuvering space. Variation to this standard may be allowed based on, but not
limited to, documented evidence of need, site character, structure use, lot
size, etc.
      (4)   Location.
         (a)   All required loading areas shall be off-street and located on
the same lot as the building or use to be served.
         (b)   All loading area curb cuts shall be located at a minimum of 50
feet from the intersection of two or more street rights- of-way. This distance
shall be measured from the property line.
         (c)   Unless otherwise approved by the city, loading docks serving
commercial or industrial buildings shall not be located on the same side and be
visible from principal roads, collector roads or residentially zoned
properties. For buildings with visibility on two or more sides, the loading
dock areas shall not be placed adjacent to the highest classification road.
         (d)   No loading berth shall be located closer than 30 feet to a
residential district unless within a structure.
      (5)   Surfacing. All loading areas and accessways shall have a brick,
concrete, or bituminous surface graded and drained to dispose of all surface
water.
      (6)   Screening. All loading areas shall be screened and landscaped from
abutting and surrounding residential uses in compliance with §
155.076.
      (7)   Accessory use, parking, and storage. Any space allocated as a
required loading berth or access drive so as to comply with the terms of these
zoning regulations shall not be included as part of the space requirements to
meet the off-street parking area.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.075 FENCES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Building permits are not required to construct fences if six feet
or less in height.
      (2)   Fences shall be located entirely upon the private property of the
owner for whom the fence is constructed. The city may require the owner of the
property with an existing fence to establish the boundary line of his or her
property by a survey.
      (3)   Fencing materials.
         (a)   All fences shall be constructed of steel or wood posts properly
supported and braced by top rails that shall be located on the inside of the
fenced enclosure.
         (b)   Fences shall be constructed of cut lumber, brick, fieldstone,
wrought iron, maintenance free PVC (Poly Vinyl Chloride), chain link (with a
minimum thickness of gauge 11 and a required top rail support), stockade,
board-on-board wood, or similar materials. Temporary mesh fencing shall not be
permitted.
         (c)   No fence shall be constructed of used or discarded materials in
disrepair, including, but not limited to, pallets, tree trunks, trash, tires,
junk or other similar items. Materials not specifically manufactured for
fencing, such as railroad ties, wooden doors, landscape timbers or utility
poles shall not be used for, or in the construction of a fence.
         (d)   Except as specified in division (C) below, all wire fences,
including barbed wire fences, electrical fences, and chicken and hog wire
fences, shall only be permitted in the A-1 District when related to farming or
hobby farms, and on farms in other districts when related to farming, but not
as boundary line fences.
      (4)   Every fence shall be maintained on both sides in a condition of
good repair and shall not be allowed to become or remain in a condition of
disrepair or danger or constitute a nuisance, public or private. Any fence
which is or has become dangerous to the city health and welfare is a public
nuisance, and the city may commence proper proceedings for the abatement
thereof.
      (5)   The most aesthetic or appealing side of the fence must face the
adjacent properties in all districts.
      (6)   Swimming pool fences shall comply with additional regulations set
forth in §
155.067(Q).
   (B)   Fencing for residential and public/institutional uses. For fencing on
lots with residential or public/institutional uses, the following restrictions
shall apply:
      (1)   Except as provided herein, fences outside the buildable area of a
lot may not exceed six feet in height.
      (2)   Except as provided herein, fences within the buildable area of a
lot may not exceed eight feet in height.
      (3)   No fence may extend closer to the street than the principal
building, except as follows:
         (a)   Decorative fencing is allowed in the required front yard if not
designed or serving as an enclosure and subject to the requirements of §
155.072. Decorative fencing includes such things as split rail, picket, and
wrought iron fences, but not such things as chain link fences. The allowed
height for a decorative fence in the front yard is three and one-half feet (42
inches), at its tallest point.
         (b)   A fence may be erected upon any portion of a corner side lot
line. This fence may not extend beyond the front of the principal building.
         (c)   Fences for athletic and recreational fields and playground areas
in the Public-Institutional District.
   (C)   Fencing for business and industrial uses.
      (1)   Fencing for business or industrial uses may be erected up to eight
feet in height. Fences in excess of eight feet shall require a conditional use
permit. In no case shall a fence exceed 12 feet.
      (2)   Fences may be erected in the side and rear yard. Fences in the
front yard shall follow the principal building setback requirements for their
respective districts. Fences may be erected within a corner side yard so long
as the fence does not extend beyond the front of the principal building.
      (3)   Property owners in the Crow River Industrial Park, Quam Area
Industrial Park, and Oakwood Parkway Industrial Area may submit a security
fence site plan to the Zoning Administrator proposing fencing taller than those
permitted by this section or proposing the use of barbed wire atop a fence for
security reasons. The Zoning Administrator may approve the site security
fencing plan and its proposed exemption of fences from the standards of the
section, upon making the nding described in division (3)(a) below and imposing
the requirements set forth in division (3)(b) below.
         (a)   Fence height exemption for security or safety reasons. The
condition, location, or use of the property or the history of activity in the
area, indicates the land or any materials stored or used on it are in
significantly greater danger of theft or damage than surrounding land, or
represent a significant hazard to public safety without a taller fence or the
use of barbed wire atop a fence.
         (b)   Security fences with barbed wire atop must meet the following
conditions:
            1.   Shall be a minimum of six feet in height (measured without the
security arm).
            2.   The security arm shall be angled in such a manner that it
extends only over the property of the permit holder and does not endanger the
public.
            3.   Increased landscaping shall be installed to screen the fence
to lessen any potential adverse effect on the appearance or value of adjacent
properties.
   (D)   Special purpose fences and fences differing from standards.
      (1)   Fences for special purposes and fences differing in construction,
height, or length may be permitted in any district in the city by written
approval of the Zoning Administrator. Findings shall be made that the fence is
necessary to protect, buffer, or improve the premises for which the fence is
intended and shall not negatively impact adjacent properties.
      (2)   Chain link fences (without slat screens) used for the enclosure of
tennis courts or other such recreational purposes shall not exceed ten feet in
height and shall be located in a rear yard only.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-0-24)
§ 155.076 LANDSCAPING AND SCREENING.
   (A)   Landscaping required.
      (1)   All open areas of a lot shall be landscaped with a combination of
deciduous trees, ornamental trees, coniferous trees, shrubs, owers, ground
cover materials, and other site design features to ensure soil stabilization
(see §
91.38 of city code). This requirement shall not apply to undisturbed areas
retained in a natural state.
      (2)   Single-unit detached, twinhome, and duplex residential lots shall
maintain vegetation in the city's right-of-way and within five feet of the
perimeter of the property. This requirement shall not include areas where the
required driveway access is located and a three-foot wide strip of land
adjacent to the driveway.
   (B)   Landscaping plan. A landscaping plan prepared by a licensed landscape
architect or other qualified professional licensed by the State of Minnesota
shall be submitted at the time of site plan/preliminary plat review for any:
      (1)   New development or new building construction. Construction of
individual single-unit, twinhome, or duplex dwellings shall not require a
landscaping plan.
      (2)   Modification or expansion of a building or improvements to a site,
and/or when there is a change in land use. Landscaping requirements shall be
applied to those portions of the site that are directly affected by the
proposed improvements, or change in land use, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator. In all cases, appropriate screening and buffering shall be
provided for the entire site.
   (C)   No building permit for any construction shall be issued until a
landscape plan is approved and a security is obtained by the city. Guidelines
for the security are found in division (D)(11) below.
   (D)   Design standards and guidelines. Landscaping for all lots shall be
designed to meet the following standards:
      (1)   Number of trees. The minimum number of deciduous and coniferous
trees on any given site shall be as indicated below. These are the minimum
substantial plantings, in addition to other ornamental trees, shrubs, owers,
and ground cover deemed appropriate for a complete quality landscape treatment
of the site.
         (a)   Single-unit detached, twinhome, and duplex dwellings.
            1.   Lot width 65 feet or greater. Lots 65 feet in width or greater
shall contain two or more trees with four inches of combined diameter in the
front yard. Each tree must be at least one inch in diameter and at least one of
the trees must be a deciduous tree.
            2.   Lot width less than 65 feet. Lots less than 65 feet in width
shall contain trees with four inches of combined diameter. A minimum of one
deciduous tree at least one and a half inches in diameter shall be located in
the front yard.
            3.   Coniferous equivalent. A coniferous tree at least five feet in
height shall be deemed equivalent to two inches of tree diameter.
            4.   Tree location exception. The Zoning Administrator may
authorize the placement of some of the required trees within the side or rear
yard if the Zoning Administrator determines that due to the shape of the lot
there are unique circumstances.
         (b)   All other uses.
            1.   A minimum one tree per 40 lineal feet of site perimeter shall
be installed.
            2.   All structures must have foundation plantings consisting of
shrubs, perennials, and/or native grasses. All additions, expansions, or
additional structures shall require a minimum of two shrubs per 1,000 square
feet of new construction.
      (2)   Existing trees.
         (a)   A reasonable attempt shall be made to preserve as many existing
trees as practical and to incorporate them into the site plan. Sites containing
existing significant trees which will be retained may be utilized to satisfy
landscaping requirements.
         (b)   As a condition of subdivision approval or the issuance of
grading or building permit, the city may require the applicant to replace any
significant trees which are damaged or destroyed as a result of development or
construction activities. Significant trees that are damaged or destroyed shall
be replaced by at least two trees meeting the minimum planting requirements
according to the tree preservation regulations in City Code
Chapter 94.
      (3)   Minimum plant size.
         (a)   All multi-unit residential, commercial, industrial, public/
institutional, and association-maintained residential landscaping materials
shall conform to the following minimum size requirements:
            1.   Deciduous trees: 2½ inch diameter, as measured six inches
above the ground.
            2.   Ornamental trees: 1½ inch diameter, as measured six inches
above the ground.
            3.   Coniferous trees: six feet.
            4.   Tall shrubs or hedge: three feet.
            5.   Low shrubs: five gallon.
         (b)   All single-unit residential dwellings shall provide landscaping
according to division (D)(1)(a) above.
      (4)   Species.
         (a)   All trees and plantings used in site developments shall be
indigenous to the appropriate hardiness zone and physical characteristics of
the site.
         (b)   All deciduous trees proposed to satisfy the minimum requirements
of this policy shall be long-lived hardwood species.
         (c)   The diversity of landscape tree species shall meet the following
requirements:
            1.   Trees required on lots containing single-unit, twinhome, and
duplex dwellings shall not all be of the same genus.
            2.   For all other lots:
               a.   Each of the first three trees planted on a site must be of
a different genus.
               b.   When 20 or more trees are required on a site or within a
development, no more than 20% of all trees shall be of the same genus.
         (d)   The complement of trees fulfilling the requirements of this
section shall be not less than 25% deciduous and not less than 25% coniferous.
Single-unit, twinhome, and duplex residential development is exempt from this
requirement.
         (e)   No required tree shall be any of the following:
            1.   A species of the genus Ulmus (elm), except those elms bred to
be immune to Dutch Elm disease;
            2.   Box Elder;
            3.   A species of the genus Populous (poplar) except when counted
as an under-story tree;
            4.   Female ginko;
            5.   Ash;
            6.   Any noxious or invasive tree species, including those
identified on the Minnesota Department of Agriculture's Eradicate, Control, or
Restricted Lists.
      (5)   Planting time specified. Trees must be planted within the front
yard within 120 days after the city has issued a Certificate of Occupancy or
within 15 months of the issuance of the building permit, whichever comes first.
The counting of the 120 days shall be tolled during the time between October 1
and May 1 but said count shall be resumed after May 1.
      (6)   Ground cover. All front (including boulevards), side, or rear yards
facing a right-of-way shall be sodded with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Single-unit, twinhome, or duplex residential lots are not
required to sod, but turf must be established within 120 days after the city
has issued a Certificate of Occupancy or within 15 months of the issuance of
the building permit, whichever comes first. The counting of the 120 days shall
be tolled during the time between October 1 and May 1, but said count shall be
resumed after May 1. All silt fence or hay bale erosion controls must be
maintained until turf is established. A financial security in an amount
determined by the city will be required if turf is not established within the
front yard (including to the rear of the structure abutting the street on a
corner lot) prior to occupancy.
         (b)   All other zoning districts may seed their lots when the city
determines sod is not practical or desirable such as, but not limited to,
campus areas of schools, recreational playfields, open space, sites that are
rough graded, and areas that cannot be developed (such as those in a power line
easement).
         (c)   Seeding of future expansion areas as shown on approved plans.
         (d)   Installation of a managed natural landscape in accordance with
M.S. § 412.925 shall be permitted.
         (e)   Undisturbed areas containing existing viable natural vegetation
which can be maintained free of foreign and noxious plant materials.
         (f)   Areas designated as open space or future expansion areas
properly planted and maintained with prairie grass or other native vegetation.
      (7)   Building ground cover. Except for lots containing single-unit,
twinhome, and duplex dwellings, a minimum five-foot strip from the building
edge must be treated with decorative ground cover and/or foundation plantings,
except for garage/loading and pedestrian access areas.
      (8)   Softening of walls and fences. Plants shall be placed
intermittently against long expanses of building walls, fences, and other
barriers to create a softening effect. Plantings shall also be proportionate to
the height of the building. Additional depth along buildings may be required to
accommodate this landscaping.
      (9)   Parking lots/planting islands.
         (a)   All parking lots designed with more than two rows shall provide
landscaping areas dispersed throughout the interior and perimeter of the
parking lot in order to avoid the undesirable monotony, heat, and wind
associated with large parking areas.
            1.   A minimum area equal to 15% of the parking and driveway
surface area shall be designed with either landscaping islands or divider
medians between opposing rows of parking. Where the city determines as part of
the site plan review that due to the unique characteristics of the site or
operation of the principal use, the parking lot design cannot reasonably
accommodate curb islands or divider medians, plant materials may be moved to
the perimeter of the parking lot.
               a.   Any landscape island shall not be less than 324 square feet
in area and eight feet in width to support plant health.
               b.   Any divider median shall be at least eight feet in width
and extend the full length of the parking stalls.
            2.   Deciduous trees shall be planted around the perimeter of the
parking lot or within the landscape islands or divider medians at a minimum
rate of one tree per 24 parking stalls.
               a.   Trees shall be set back a minimum of eight feet from curbs
and/or pavement when located on the perimeter of a parking area.
               b.   Trees shall be centrally located within a landscape island
or divider median.
               c.   Each deciduous tree shall be planted with at least 750
cubic feet of soil that includes between two and four feet of uncompacted
topsoil depth to support a tree at 25 years of life. When there are multiple
trees within a single island or median, an additional 375 cubic feet of soil is
required for each additional tree.
            3.   Ornamental trees, shrubs, hedges and other plant materials may
be used to supplement the deciduous trees, but shall not be the sole
contribution to such landscaping.
      (10)   Irrigation system. In order to provide for adequate maintenance of
landscaped areas, an underground sprinkler system shall be provided as part of
each new development. The exceptions to this are single-unit, twinhome, and
duplex dwellings and additions to existing structures equal to less than 25% of
the square feet of the existing structure.
      (11)   Landscape guarantee.
         (a)   All new trees and plant materials shall be guaranteed by the
developer, contractor, or builder for 12 months from the time all planting has
been completed and a certificate of occupancy has been issued. All plants shall
be alive, of good quality, with no signs of stress, and disease free at the end
of the warranty period or they shall be replaced. Any replacements shall be
warranted for 12 months from the time of replacement.
         (b)   Landscaping required by this chapter shall be maintained for the
life of the principal use. Damaged, diseased, or dead landscape materials shall
be replaced so that the requirements of this chapter are met at all times. This
requirement shall run with the land and be binding upon all future property
owners.
   (E)   Collector road landscaping. The following requirements shall apply to
all lots abutting collector roads and the ground area within the street right-
of-way:
      (1)   The abutting property owner shall be responsible for improving and
maintaining the ground surface of the boulevard with turf or other plant
material and trees.
      (2)   Trees shall be provided, on average, 40 feet apart adjacent to
roadways with curb and gutter.
      (3)   A variety of deciduous species shall be included in the planting
plan for a specific development.
   (F)   Screening and buffering.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   Where any new business, industrial, or institutional use abuts
property zoned or guided for residential use, that business or industry shall
provide screening along the boundary of the residential property.
         (b)   Screening shall also be provided where a business or industry is
across the street from a residential zone, except on the side of a business or
industry determined to be the front by the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   For all multi-unit residential, commercial, industrial, and
institutional uses, the following site elements shall be screened with
landscaping or materials compatible with the design elements, materials, and
colors used elsewhere on the site:
            1.   Open, non-residential off-street parking areas with five or
more spaces shall be screened from abutting residential districts.
            2.   Loading areas for non-residential properties shall be screened
from abutting residential districts and from street view.
            3.   All mechanical equipment and utility functions (such as,
electrical transformers, HVAC equipment, solar panels, and generators) visible
from the primary street or that is elevated more than 18 inches above grade.
            4.   Refuse and recycling containers shall be screened on all sides
on lots containing multi-unit residential and non-residential uses.
            5.   Outdoor storage areas except for:
               a.   Merchandise being displayed for sale;
               b.   Materials and equipment currently being used for
construction on the premises; and
               c.   Merchandise located on service station pump islands.
      (2)   Materials. Screening shall consist of the following elements or a
combination of those elements so as to block direct visual access to a
structure or use to a minimum height of six feet:
         (a)   A green planting strip a minimum of 20 feet wide including
deciduous trees, coniferous trees, and shrubs.
         (b)   A solid wall or fence constructed of masonry, brick, wood, or
steel which is compatible with surrounding structures and buildings.
         (c)   Hedge with year-round foliage;
         (d)   Landscaped berm with year-round foliage. Berms shall not be used
to achieve more than three feet of the required screen. In no situation shall
berms be used as the sole means of screening.
         (e)   The landscaping, berming, and fencing materials shall be subject
to the approval of the City Council. The landowner shall demonstrate how the
proposed plan will provide the desired screening effect.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.077 LIGHTING.
   (A)   General provisions.
      (1)   Lighting shall not create a hazard for vehicular or pedestrian
traffic.
      (2)   All exterior lighting shall be designed and arranged to direct
illumination away from contiguous residential district property. No exterior
light source on a nonresidential property shall be visible from any permitted
residential use.
      (3)   Lighting shall not directly or indirectly cause illumination or
glare in excess of one-half foot- candle measured at the nonresidential
property line, except for lighting at driveways to the public street.
      (4)   The maximum height above the ground grade permitted for poles,
fixtures, and light sources mounted on a pole is 25 feet.
   (B)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The uses below shall be exempt from the provisions of this section:
         (a)   Publicly controlled or maintained street lighting and warning,
emergency, or traffic signals;
         (b)   Lighting required by federal, state, county, or city ordinances
and regulations;
         (c)   Lighting for public monuments, statues, flagpoles, or other
similar elements, provided that any spotlight used for this purpose is shielded
from adjacent properties;
         (d)   Lighting specified or identified in a conditional or interim use
permit;
         (e)   Temporary outdoor lighting used for civic events, performance
areas, outdoor events, or construction sites;
         (f)   Lighting for public outdoor recreation uses; and
         (g)   Solar landscape lights.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.078 GRADING, MINING, EXCAVATION AND EARTHWORK CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to safeguard life, limb,
property, and the public welfare by controlling grading, mining, and filling
operations so as to minimize conflicts with adjacent land uses, to preserve
good soils and to regulate the type of materials used in filling operations,
and to ensure that disturbed areas are restored upon completion of the
operation.
   (B)   Scope. This section sets forth rules and regulations to control
grading, mining, excavation, and earthwork construction including fills and
embankments, establish the administrative procedure for issuance of permits,
and provide for approval of plans and inspection of grading construction.
   (C)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   The excavation, removal, or storage of rock, sand, dirt, gravel,
clay, black dirt, peat, or other like material for the purpose of compliance
with a grading plan approved as part of a subdivision plat, site plan, or
planned unit development, if the plat, site plan, or planned unit development
does not require the exporting or importing of earth material and a letter of
credit or other security has been posted before the excavation takes place;
      (2)   The excavation for the purpose of the yard, foundation, or basement
of a building in the process of being erected, built, or placed thereon
contemporaneously with, or immediately following, such excavation, removal, or
storage and a building permit has been issued;
      (3)   The excavation, removal, or storage of rock, sand, dirt, gravel,
clay, black dirt, peat, or other like material by a public agency incidental to
the construction or maintenance of streets or utilities;
      (4)   Grading of individual residential lots by less than 250 cubic yards
of earth material or less than 100 square feet of surface area in a calendar
year.
   (D)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this section, it
shall be unlawful for anyone to mine or excavate as defined herein without
having first obtained a written permit from the city authorizing the same in
accordance with this section. Current permit holders shall come into compliance
with the terms of this section no later than the time their annual permit is
renewed or within a maximum of 180 days.
   (E)   Applications for permits; procedures; contents of applications.
      (1)   An application for a mining or excavation permit shall be
administered in accordance with requirements specified in this chapter, §
155.043 Uses and §
155.095 Interim Use Permits.
      (2)   An application for a mining or excavation permit shall contain:
         (a)   The names and addresses of the applicant, operator, and owner of
the site.
         (b)   The purpose for which the permit is sought.
         (c)   The exact legal description and acreage of the property to be
graded, mined, or filled.
         (d)   The following maps of the entire site including all areas within
350 feet of the site. All maps shall be drawn at a scale of one inch to 100
feet unless otherwise stated below:
            1.   Map 1 - Existing Site Conditions, to include:
               a.   Contour map (two foot intervals);
               b.   Existing vegetation;
               c.   Existing drainage and permanent water areas;
               d.   Existing structures;
               e.   Existing wells;
               f.   Water table elevations.
            2.   Map 2 - Proposed Operations, to include:
               a.   Location of sites to be graded, mined, or filled showing
elevations of each stage of proposed operations;
               b.   Location of storage of mined materials showing maximum
height of storage deposits;
               c.   Location of vehicle parking, and access roads;
               d.   Location and description of erosion and sediment control
structures;
               e.   Location of any proposed dewatering operations.
            3.   Map 3 - End Use Plan, to include:
               a.   Final grade of proposed site showing elevations and contour
lines at two foot intervals;
               b.   Location and species of vegetation to be planted;
               c.   Phasing plan;
               d.   Storm water drainage plan.
            4.   Map 4 - Hauling Roads, to include:
               a.   Location of designated hauling roads from the site to a
state or federal highway.
            5.   A soil erosion and sediment control plan.
            6.   A plan for dust and noise control.
            7.   A full and adequate description of all phases of the proposed
operation including an estimate of duration of the grading, mining, or filling
operation, the location, and the approximate acreage of each stage and a
schedule for restoration.
            8.   A rehabilitation or restoration plan providing for the orderly
and continuing rehabilitation of all excavated land. Such plan shall
illustrate, using appropriate photographs, maps, and surveys drawn to a scale
of one inch equals 100 feet and with a two-foot contour interval satisfactory
to the Engineer, the following:
               a.   The final or planned contours of the land when the mineral
removal operations are completed;
               b.   Those areas of the site that will be used for storage of
topsoil and overburden; and
               c.   The elevation and location of all water bodies.
            9.   The location of any existing wells and the size and depth
thereof located on the site.
            10.   The location and description of any proposed dewatering
operations.
            11.   An analysis of the earth material to be used in the filling,
which analysis shall include the following; the analysis as required herein
shall be certified by a qualified testing laboratory:
               a.   pH content;
               b.   Organic material content; and
               c.   Determination of the presence or lack of hazardous
substances as defined by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
            12.   Any other information requested by the City Staff, Planning
Commission, or City Council.
   (F)   Insurance. The applicant shall file with the city a liability
insurance policy or certificate of such insurance acceptable to the city and
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the state.
      (1)   The insurance policy shall insure the operator performing acts
described herein for the sum of at least $500,000 for injury to one person and
$1,000,000 for one accident and at least $500,000 property damage.
      (2)   The insurance policy shall be for the full period of the permit and
shall provide for the giving of ten-days prior notice to the City Administrator
by registered mail of termination, cancellation, or amendment of the policy.
      (3)   In the event said policy is terminated for any reason, the permit
shall be automatically suspended upon the day the policy terminates, unless a
new policy complying with this section is obtained and filed with the City
Administrator prior to the termination of the policy in force.
   (G)   Review and approval of overall plan; function of renewable annual
permits.
      (1)   The City Council shall review the permit application and shall
approve the permit if it is in compliance with this section, this chapter, and
other applicable laws, ordinances, code provisions, and regulations. The City
Council may attach conditions to the permit approval to promote safety and
prevent nuisance conditions. The rehabilitation plan shall only be approved if
it is consistent with the uses allowed in the City's Comprehensive Plan and
this chapter.
      (2)   Implementation of the overall plan shall be by means of renewable
annual permit. The purpose of the renewable permit is to assure compliance with
the longer-range overall plan and to retain the ability to modify existing or
to attach new conditions in accord with changing characteristics of the site or
its surroundings. The City Council, after consultation with appropriate city
staff, may issue renewal licenses upon satisfactory proof of compliance with
this chapter.
   (H)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   The material extraction permit may be terminated for violation of
this section or any conditions of the permit. No permit may be terminated until
the City Council has held a public hearing to determine whether the permit
shall be terminated, at which time the operator shall be afforded an
opportunity to contest the termination. The City Council may establish certain
conditions which, if not complied with, will result in immediate suspension of
operations until the public hearing to consider termination of the permit can
be held.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to conduct mineral extraction or excavation
after a permit has been terminated.
   (I)   Annual permits; renewal; conditions.
      (1)   Request for renewal of an annual permit shall be made 60 days prior
to the expiration date. If application or renewal is not made within the
required time, all operations shall be terminated and reinstatement of the
permit may be granted only upon compliance with the procedures set forth in
this section for an original application.
      (2)   A permit may be approved or renewed subject to compliance with
conditions in addition to those set forth in this section when such conditions
are reasonable and necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements and
purpose of this section. When such conditions are established, they shall be
set forth specifically in the permit. Conditions may, among other matters,
limit the size, kind, or character of the proposed operation, require the
construction of structures, require the staging of extraction over a time
period, require the alteration of the site design to ensure compliance with the
standards, require the provision of a performance bond by the operator to
ensure compliance with these regulations in this chapter, or other similar
requirements.
   (J)   Fees. A schedule of fees for the examination and approval of
applications for permits under this section and the inspection of operations
for compliance with the conditions of this section and the permit shall be
determined by resolution of the City Council, which may, from time to time,
change the schedule. Prior to the approval and issuance or renewal of any
permit under this section, the fees shall be paid to the city and deposited to
the credit of the General Fund.
   (K)   Performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit. Prior to commencing
any grading, mining, or filling operation, a performance bond, cash escrow, or
irrevocable letter of credit, in such form and amounts as the city may require,
shall be deposited with the city. The amount of this deposit shall vary
according to the scope and duration of the project and shall be established by
the City Council. This deposit may be used by the City Council to: pay for the
cost and expense of repairing any public rights-of-way due to the grading,
mining, or filling operation; pay for the costs associated in administering the
requirements of this section; and pay for any restoration of the site not
properly restored upon completion. This security shall be used by the city only
in the event that the permit holder fails to pay bills submitted for costs
incurred by the city.
   (L)   Issuance of permit imposes no liability on city and relieves the
permittee of no responsibilities, etc.
      (1)   Neither the issuance of a permit under this section nor compliance
with the conditions thereof or with the provisions of this section shall
relieve any person from any responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damage
to persons or property; nor shall the issuance of any permit under this section
serve to impose any liability on the city or its officers or employees for any
injury or damage to persons or property. A permit issued pursuant to this
section does not relieve the permittee of the responsibility of securing and
complying with any other permit which may be required by any other law,
ordinance, code provision, or regulation.
      (2)   As a condition of this permit, the permittee agrees to allow the
City Council or any of its staff members to trespass for the purpose of
inspecting the mining operation at all times. In addition, the permittee grants
the city or its representative the right to trespass on the site to complete
the restoration in the event that the permittee fails to do so.
   (M)   Performance standards.
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   Vegetation removal. Weeds and other unsightly or noxious
vegetation shall be cut or trimmed as may be necessary to preserve a reasonably
neat appearance of the site and to minimize seeding on adjacent property.
         (b)   Equipment maintenance and use; rubbish removal. All equipment
used for grading, mining, or filling operations shall be maintained and
operated in such a manner as to minimize, as far as practicable, noises, dust,
and vibrations adversely affecting surrounding properties. In addition, all
machinery shall be kept in good repair and painted regularly. Abandoned
machinery and rubbish shall be removed from the site regularly.
         (c)   Noise, safety, and dust concerns. All hauling operations shall
be complete so as to minimize noise, safety, and dust concerns to adjacent
residential properties.
         (d)   Safeguarding from refuse deposit. All grading, mining, and
filling sites shall be properly safeguarded to prevent the general public from
depositing garbage or other refuse in the site.
         (e)   Structure, equipment, and trailer removal. All structures,
trailers, or equipment that has not been actively used in the mining operation
for eight months shall be removed from the site.
         (f)   Structure and trailer maintenance. All structures or trailers
used for the mining and grading operation shall be maintained in accordance
with acceptable industry standards.
         (g)   Vegetation preservation. Existing tree and ground cover shall be
preserved to the extent feasible, and maintained and supplemented by selective
cutting, transplanting, and replanting of trees, shrubs, and other ground cover
along all setback areas.
      (2)   Water resources.
         (a)   The grading, mining, or filling operation shall be conducted in
such a manner as to minimize interference with the surface water drainage
outside of the boundaries of the site.
         (b)   No grading, mining, or filling operations shall occur below an
elevation of six feet above the elevation of the water table on the site.
      (3)   Safety fencing.
         (a)   Safety fencing may be required around all or portions of the
site at the discretion of the City Council.
         (b)   Fencing may be ordered by the City Council or City Engineer any
time the permit is in force and shall be installed with 24 hours of written
notice.
      (4)   Access roads. The location of the intersection of mining, grading,
or filling access roads with any public roads shall be selected such that
traffic on the access roads or streets shall be maintained in order to minimize
dust considerations.
      (5)   Haul roads. Haul roads for new mining operations which commence
operation after the adoption of this section shall be nine-ton roads only, as
defined by city standards. Haul roads for existing mining and excavation in
existence at the time this section is adopted shall be officially designated
and approved by the city. For an existing mining operation that is not a nine-
ton road, the operator shall comply with seasonal weight restrictions when
using the designated haul road.
      (6)   Fill materials. An analysis of all fill materials must be provided
to and approved by the City Engineer prior to commencing any filling
activities. No filling materials shall be permitted which, in the opinion of
the City Engineer, would be undevelopable or create substandard soils.
      (7)   Screening barrier. To minimize problems of dust and noise and to
shield site operations from public view, a screening barrier may be required at
the city's discretion between the site and adjacent properties. A screening
barrier may also be required between the site and any public roads located
within 500 feet of any grading, mining, or filling operations. The screening
barrier shall be planted with a species of fast-growing trees, and where
practical, stockpiles of overburden materials shall be used to screen the
operation site.
      (8)   Slopes. The maximum permitted slope for any grading, mining, or
filling operation other than the working face shall be sloped on all sides at a
maximum ratio of two foot horizontal to one foot vertical, unless a steeper
slope shall be approved by the City Engineer. In no case shall the slope of the
working face of the operation be left unattended with a slope greater than two
feet horizontal to one foot vertical. Where excavations are adjacent to a
public roadway or other right-of-way, the excavation shall have a maximum four
to one slope. Slopes adjacent to or contiguous to bodies of water shall be
sloped at a maximum of six to one.
      (9)   Setback.
         (a)   A grading, mining, or filling operation shall not be conducted
closer than 30 feet to the right-of-way line of any existing or platted street,
road, or highway, except that excavating may be conducted within such limits in
order to reduce or raise the elevation thereof in conformity to the existing or
platted streets, road, or highway.
         (b)   Processing of minerals shall not be conducted closer than 100
feet to the property line nor closer than 500 feet to any residential or
commercial structures located prior to commencement of processing operations
without the written consent of all owners and residents of the structures.
Mining operations shall not be conducted closer than 30 feet to the boundary of
any zone where such operations are not permitted, nor shall production or
processing be conducted closer than 30 feet to the boundary of an adjoining
property line, unless the written consent of the owner in fee of such adjoining
property is first secured in writing.
         (c)   No excavation or digging shall be made beyond the limits for
which the particular permit is granted and in no case shall any excavation or
digging be made within 30 feet of any adjoining road right-of-way or structure
as may be in the area without obtaining specific approval by the City Council.
      (10)   Stockpiling. Where practical, stockpiles of overburden shall be
used to screen the extraction. Stockpiles of either overburden or mined
material shall be limited to 22 feet in height. Removal or sale of the
overburden shall not be allowed until the entire site has been restored. Also,
the stockpiling of foreign material will not be allowed under the mining
permit. Only mined or extracted material from the site may be stockpiled.
      (11)   Earth material. No earth material shall be imported to or exported
from the site until the haul road has been officially designated as a haul road
by the city and all materials hauled from the source shall be hauled over that
road. The haul road designation process shall be pursuant to Section 2051.3 of
the Minnesota Department of Transportation's Standard Specifications for
Construction, 1988 Edition.
      (12)   Nuisances. All reasonable means shall be employed by the applicant
to reduce dust, noise, and nuisances.
      (13)   Noise. The maximum noise level at the perimeter of the site shall
be within the limits set by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the
Environmental Protection Agency of the United States.
      (14)   Hours. All mining operations shall be conducted between 7:00 a.m.
and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays only, unless otherwise specifically approved by the
City Engineer or his or her agent.
      (15)   Dust. Operators shall utilize all practical means to reduce the
amount of dust caused by the operation. In no case shall the amount of dust or
other particulate matter exceed the standards established by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency. No operations shall be allowed when wind gusts exceed
30 mph.
      (16)   Water pollution. Operators shall comply with all applicable
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency regulations and federal and Environmental
Protection Agency regulations for the protection of water quality. No waste
products or process residue, including untreated wash water, shall be deposited
in any lake or natural drainage system, except that lakes or ponds wholly
contained within the extraction site may be so utilized.
   (N)   Dangerous operations. The operators shall change, alter, or modify
immediately any excavation or operation therein deemed by the City Council to
be unsanitary or dangerous or polluted or contrary to the general health and
welfare of the city.
   (O)   Maintenance of haul roads and traffic law compliance.
      (1)   While hauling operations are in progress, the operator shall
maintain the haul road(s) in a condition satisfactory to the City Engineer.
This work shall include application of water, bituminous material, or calcium
chloride to the road surface as may be necessary to alleviate dust nuisance and
eliminate traffic hazards. This work shall also include the removal of spillage
of any material on the haul road(s).
      (2)   When hauling operations over any road are completed, the operator
shall (at the operator's option):
         (a)   Restore that haul road to a condition at least equal to that
which existed at the time the hauling operations were started; or
         (b)   Compensate the local road authority in an amount satisfactory to
that road authority and concurred in by the City Engineer for the restoration
of that haul road by the local authority.
      (3)   The City Engineer's determination as to the kind and amount of
maintenance and restoration work required to restore the haul road to a
condition equal to that which existed at the time the hauling operations were
started shall be final, binding, and conclusive.
      (4)   When hauling over any designated haul road has been completed and
the operator has restored that road or has compensated for that restoration as
required, the City Engineer will accept such restoration or concur in such
financial settlement for the restoration of the haul road (as the case may be)
in writing, and such acceptance will relieve the operator of any kind of
additional obligation in connection with the restoration of that road.
      (5)   If the operator fails or refuses to perform haul road restoration
or to make satisfactory financial settlement for such restoration as required
within the period specified in a written notice by the City Engineer, the city
will cause the restoration work to be done and require reimbursement therefor
from the operator's surety.
   (P)   Site restoration. All grading, mining, and filling sites shall be
restored immediately after operations cease. Restoration shall be completed
within 60 days of the cessation of operations unless operations cease during
the fall. In no case shall restoration be left uncompleted for over eight
months. The following standards shall apply to restoration:
      (1)   The peaks and depressions of the site shall be graded and
backfilled to a surface which will result in a gently rolling topography in
substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding the site and
which will minimize erosion due to rainfall. No finished slope shall exceed 12%
in grade.
      (2)   Restoration shall begin after the grading, mining, and/or filling
of 25% of the total area to be mined or five acres, whichever is less. Once
these areas have been graded, mined, or filled, they shall be sloped and seeded
as per the restoration plan.
      (3)   Restored areas shall be surfaced with a soil of a quality at least
equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding the site, and to a
depth of at least six inches. The topsoil shall be seeded, sodded, or planted
with grasses. Trees and shrubs may also be planted but not as a substitute for
grasses. Such planting shall adequately retard soil erosion.
      (4)   The finished grade shall be such that it will not adversely affect
the surrounding land or future development of the site and shall be consistent
with the end use plan.
      (5)   Within 30 days after the deposit of approved fill materials, the
filled areas shall be covered with a minimum of six inches clean fill, and the
depth of the fill shall be controlled to blend with the surrounding ground
conditions.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
SIGNS
§ 155.081 FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND EFFECT.
   (A)   The purpose of this division is to regulate the number, location,
size, type, placement, and certain features of all signs placed on private
property for public observation to protect and promote the general welfare,
health, safety, and order within the city. The provisions contained within this
division are meant to encourage creativity and opportunities for effective
communication, while ensuring that the public is not distracted or endangered
by such communication. This division must be interpreted in a manner consistent
with the First Amendment guarantee of free speech.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign and/or its supporting sign structure which
remains without a message or whose display surface remains blank for a
continuous period of one year or more, or any sign which pertains to a time,
event or purpose which no longer applies, shall be deemed to have been
abandoned. Signs applicable to a business temporarily suspended because of a
change in ownership or management of such business shall not be deemed
abandoned unless the property remains vacant for a period of one year or more.
Any sign remaining after demolition of a principal structure shall be deemed to
be abandoned. Signs which are present because of being legally established
nonconforming signs or signs which have required a conditional use permit or a
variance shall also be subject to the definition of abandoned sign.
      AWNING SIGN. A building sign or graphic printed on or in some fashion
attached directly to the awning material.
      BALLOON SIGN. A sign consisting of a bag made of lightweight material
supported by helium, hot, or pressurized air which is greater than 24 inches in
diameter.
      BUILDING SIGN. Any sign attached to or supported by any building.
      CANOPY. A roof-like cover, often of fabric, plastic, metal, or glass on a
support, which provides shelter over a doorway, or in the case of motor fuel
stations, provides shelter over the fuel tanks.
      CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is part of or attached to a canopy, made of
fabric, plastic, or a structural protective cover over a door or entrance. A
canopy sign is not a marquee and is di erent from service area canopy signs.
      COMMERCIAL MESSAGE SIGN. Sign advertising a business, profession,
commodity, service or entertainment.
      DYNAMIC DISPLAY SIGN. Any sign with characteristics that appear to have
movement or that appear to change which are caused by any method other than
physically removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the
apparent movement or change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or
any other component of the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a
technology or method allowing the sign face to change the image without having
to physically or mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This
also includes any rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated
display and any display that incorporates LED (Light-Emitting Diode) lights
manipulated through digital input, digital ink, or any other method or
technology that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
      ERECT. Activity of constructing, building, raising, assembling, placing,
a fixing, attaching, creating, painting, drawing or any other way of bringing
into being or establishing.
      FARM IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign which identifies or otherwise describes
the name, ownership and/or type of agricultural operation of the lot or parcel
of land upon which it is situated.
      FLAG. Any fabric or similar lightweight material attached at one end of
the material to a staff or pole, so as to allow movement of the material by
atmospheric changes and which contains distinctive colors, patterns, symbols,
emblems, insignia, or other symbolic devices.
      FLASHING SIGN. An illuminated sign upon which the artificial light is not
kept constant in terms of intensity or color at all times when the sign is
illuminated.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. Any stationary or portable self-supported sign not a
fixed to any other structure.
      GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. A sign which is erected by a governmental unit.
      ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which is lighted by an artificial light source
either directed upon it or illuminated from an interior source.
      MONUMENT SIGN. A sign not supported by exposed posts or poles which is
designed to architecturally match the principal structure and be located
directly at grade where the base width dimension is 75% or more of the greatest
width of the sign.
      MOTION SIGN. Any sign which revolves, rotates, has any moving parts, or
gives the illusion of motion.
      NON-COMMERCIAL MESSAGE SIGN. Dissemination of messages not classified as
commercial speech, which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning
political, religious, social, ideological, public service and informational
topics.
      NONCONFORMING SIGN.
         (a)   LEGAL. A sign which lawfully existed at the time of the passage
of this division but which does not conform to the regulations of this chapter.
         (b)   ILLEGAL. A sign which was constructed after the passage of this
division and does not conform to the regulations of this division.
      OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A sign located upon property other than that of the
development or use for which the sign is intended. For purposes of this
division, easements and other appurtenances shall be considered to be outside
such lot and any sign located or proposed to be located in an easement or other
appurtenance shall be considered an off-premise sign.
      ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign located upon the same property as the development
or use for which the sign is intended.
      PORTABLE SIGN. A temporary sign so designed as to be movable from one
location to another and which is not permanently attached to the ground, sales
display device, or structure.
      PROJECTING SIGN. Any wall sign which is affixed to a building or wall in
such a manner that its leading edge extends a minimum of one foot beyond the
surface of the building and a maximum of four feet beyond such building.
      PYLON SIGN. Any freestanding sign which has its supportive structure(s)
anchored in the ground and which has a sign face elevated above ground level by
a pole(s) or beam(s) and with more than 25% of the area below the sign face
open.
      ROOF SIGN. A sign which is located above the eave or coping line.
      ROTATING SIGN. A sign which revolves or rotates by mechanical means.
      SANDWICH BOARD SIGN. A self-supported and moveable, typically A-shaped,
temporary sign with two visible sides that is placed adjacent to a business,
typically on a sidewalk.
      SIGN. Any letter, word, symbol, poster, picture, statuary, reading matter
or representation in the nature of advertisement, announcement, message or
visual communication, whether painted, posted, printed, affixed or constructed,
including all associated brackets, braces, supports, wires and structures,
which is displayed for informational or communicative purposes.
      SIGN AREA. All signs shall be measured at the perimeter of the surface on
which the sign is inscribed. The area of the internally lighted signs shall be
the total area of the lighted surface. For signs consisting of letters,
figures, or symbols applied directly onto a building or structure, the sign
area shall be that area enclosed within the smallest regular geometric figure
needed to completely encompass all letters, figures or symbols of the sign.
      SIGN FACE. The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the
message of the sign is exhibited.
      SIGN HEIGHT. The height of the sign shall be computed as the vertical
distance measured from the base of the sign at grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign.
      TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign designed to be displayed for a limited period of
time that is not permanently fixed to the land or a structure.
      WALL SIGN. A sign affixed to the exterior wall of a building which does
not project more than one foot from the surface to which it is attached, nor
extend beyond the top of the parapet wall.
      WINDOW SIGN. A sign affixed to or inside of a window in view of the
general public.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.082 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Maintenance. Signs and sign structures shall be properly maintained
and kept in a safe condition. Sign or sign structures which are rotted, unsafe,
deteriorated or defaced, as determined by the City Building Official or Zoning
Administrator, shall be removed, repainted, repaired, or replaced by the permit
holder, owner or agent of the property upon which the sign stands.
   (B)   Placement.
      (1)   No signs, other than those of governmental jurisdictions, shall be
permitted within public right-of-way or roadway easements.
      (2)   No sign or sign structure, unless otherwise regulated by this
section, shall be closer to any lot line than ten feet. On corner lots, no sign
shall be located within the visibility triangle required by §
155.072.
      (3)   No sign shall be placed within any drainage or utility easement,
except upon written approval of the City Engineer.
      (4)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress
of any building or structure.
   (C)   Public safety. No signs, guys, stays, or attachments shall be erected,
placed, or maintained on rocks, fences, or trees, nor interfere with any
electric light, power, telephone or telegraph wires or the supports thereof,
with the exception of signs necessary for security, or to preserve public
safety, as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Construction. No sign shall be attached or be allowed to hang from any
building until all necessary wall and roof attachments have been approved by
the City Building Official.
   (E)   Electricity. The installation of electrical signs shall be subject to
the state's Electrical Code. Electrical service shall be underground for
freestanding signs and not visible from public view for wall signs.
   (F)   Illumination.
      (1)   Illuminated signs shall comply with §
155.077 and shall be shielded to prevent lights from being directed onto
residential property, or at oncoming traffic, in such brilliance that it
impairs the vision of the driver. Nor shall such signs interfere with, or
obscure, an official traffic sign or signal. This includes indoor signs which
are visible from public streets and highways.
   (G)   Design. All freestanding signs and sign structures, including sign
supports, poles, beams, and brackets shall be architecturally designed to match
the principal structure.
   (H)   Landscaping. Landscaping that accompanies signage must be approved by
the Zoning Administrator with regards to installation, design and maintenance.
   (I)   Substitution.
      (1)   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this subchapter
may substitute non-commercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or non-
commercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any additional
approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any
inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
   (J)   Non-conforming signs and uses.
      (1)   Non-conforming signs. Any non-conforming on-premise sign lawfully
existing upon the effective date of the adoption of this section may be
continued at the size and in the manner existing upon such date, subject to the
following provisions:
         (a)   Maintenance and repair. Nothing in this division shall be
construed as relieving the owner or user of a legal non-conforming sign or
owner of the property on which the sign is located from the requirements of
this division regarding safety, maintenance, and repair of signs, provided that
any repainting, cleaning, and other normal maintenance or repair of the sign or
sign structure shall not modify the sign structure or copy it in any way which
makes it more non-conforming, or the sign shall lose its legal non-conforming
status. Illegal, non-conforming signs shall be removed by the property owner
within ten days of notice from the city.
         (b)   Prohibited alterations. A non-conforming sign may not be:
            1.   Structurally altered except to bring it into compliance with
the provisions of this section.
            2.   Enlarged.
            3.   Re-established after its removal or discontinuance.
            4.   Repaired or otherwise restored, unless the damage is to less
than 50% of the sign structure value as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
            5.   Replaced (applies to structure only and not message).
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.083 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign or attention-getting device not specifically regulated by
this subchapter shall be considered prohibited until the City Council can make
a determination as to its acceptability and, if appropriate, initiate an
amendment to this subchapter.
   (B)   The following signs are specifically prohibited by this subchapter:
      (1)   Roof signs;
      (2)   Signs painted directly on the outside wall of a building;
      (3)   Off-premise signs; except for off-premise signs in parks as set
forth in §
155.087(D);
      (4)   Private signs that resemble any official marker, governmental
agency, or display such words as "stop" or "danger" unless so specified by this
subchapter or the City Code;
      (5)   Flashing signs;
      (6)   Motion signs, and signs giving off an intermittent, steady, or
rotating beam of light, except as allowed by M.S. § 173.16, Subd. 3;
      (7)   Illegal nonconforming signs;
      (8)   Signs containing obscene content;
      (9)   Signs which by reason of position, movement, shape, illumination,
or color would constitute a hazard to oncoming traffic;
      (10)   Signs located on private property without the consent of the owner
thereof;
      (11)   Signs on or attached to equipment such as vehicles, semi-truck
trailers or other portable trailers where signing is a principal use of the
equipment on either a temporary or permanent basis;
      (12)   Dynamic display signs except as set forth in §
155.087(C)(9) and §
155.087(D)(1); and
      (13)   Signs which are structurally unsafe, dilapidated, or abandoned.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.084 SIGNS ALLOWED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   The following signs are allowed in all districts without a permit, but shall
comply with all other applicable provisions of this section:
   (A)   Signs posted by government. Any sign in the public interest erected
by, or on the order of, public officers in the performance of their public duty
and all signs posted by public utilities whether or not such signs are in the
public right-of-way.
   (B)   Property address information.
      (1)   In all districts, the property address shall be displayed on each
principal building. Such sign(s) shall contain numerals of a sufficient size to
be legible from the nearest street, yet shall not exceed two square feet in
area.
      (2)   The numerals shall be metal, glass, plastic or curable material and
shall not be less than three and one-half inches in height.
      (3)   The numerals shall be placed as to be easily seen from the street.
   (C)   Warning and restrictive signs, such as "No Trespassing" and "No
Hunting" signs placed upon private property by the owner, not to exceed two
square feet in area.
   (D)   Flags, non-commercial.
      (1)   Non-commercial flags shall not count against the maximum sign area
allowed in each zoning district.
         (a)   In the Public and Institutional Zoning District, each non-
commercial flag may not exceed 60 square feet in area and no more than three
non-commercial flags may be displayed per lot.
         (b)   In all other zoning districts, each non-commercial flag may not
exceed 24 square feet in area and no more than three non-commercial flags may
be displayed per lot.
      (2)   The side yard setback for each flagpole holding a non-commercial
flag shall be at least equal to the height of the flagpole and be placed a
minimum of ten feet from a public right-of-way.
   (E)   All signs in accordance with M.S. § 211B.045.
   (F)   Window signs. Window signs shall be allowed subject to the sign area
allowances of the respective zoning districts provided that the signs not
exceed 50% of the total area of the window in which it is displayed.
   (G)   Sandwich board signs shall be allowed within all business zoning
districts subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Number. One sandwich board sign is permitted per site or one per
tenant for multi- tenant sites.
      (2)   Size. Sandwich board signs may be no larger than eight square feet
per sign face and four feet in height. No materials, including but not limited
to balloons, streamers, and windsocks, may be added to the sign to increase its
height or width.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Sandwich board signs placed on the business property shall meet
required principal building setbacks or be located within ten feet of the
principal business entry door.
         (b)   Sandwich board signs shall be located so as to maintain a
minimum four-foot pedestrian walkway unless additional setback is necessary due
to high volume pedestrian traffic as determined by the Zoning Administrator
except in the B-2 District, where sandwich boards may be placed on public
sidewalks directly in front of the business being advertised.
         (c)   Before installing a sandwich board sign in the city's public
right-of-way, the owner of the property upon which the sandwich board sign is
to be located must procure and maintain while the sandwich board sign is in
place, at the owner's sole cost and expense, a policy of comprehensive general
liability insurance on an "occurrence" basis against claims for personal injury
liability, including, without limitation, bodily injury, death and property
damage, with a limit of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence. Such insurance
shall name the city as an additional insured. The property owner shall provide
the city a certificate of insurance as evidence of such insurance coverage and
a release and hold harmless agreement in form and content approved by the City
Attorney.
         (d)   Sandwich board signs displayed by businesses in multi-tenant
buildings shall be placed adjacent to the business entrance of the business
placing the sign when more than one sandwich board sign is being displayed on
the property.
         (e)   Sandwich board signs shall not block driveways, entryways,
parking spaces, and pedestrian accesses, create a safety hazard or obstruct
vehicular/pedestrian traffic visibility.
         (f)   Sandwich board signs shall not be placed on sidewalks that have
not been cleared of snow and/or other debris.
      (4)   Display. Sandwich board signs shall only be displayed during the
hours when the business is open to the public.
      (5)   Design. Sandwich board signs shall be professionally painted and/or
made of superior quality weather and wind resistant materials. Signs shall not
be illuminated or contain electronic moving parts.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.085 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs shall be allowed with a permit subject to the following
regulations:
   (A)   The temporary sign permit shall be obtained prior to displaying the
sign.
   (B)   In the residential zoning districts:
      (1)   No more than one temporary sign may be located on any one lot or
parcel at any time.
      (2)   The area of the temporary sign shall comply with the regulations
set forth in §
155.087(B)(1).
   (C)   In all other zoning districts:
      (1)   Number. No more than one temporary sign per street front may be
located on any one lot or parcel at any time.
      (2)   Size.
         (a)   The sign area shall not exceed 32 square feet on each side where
the speed limit of the adjacent road is less than 45 miles per hour.
         (b)   The sign shall not exceed 64 square feet on each side in an area
where the speed limit of the adjacent road is 45 miles per hours or greater.
      (3)   Duration. A temporary sign may be displayed for a cumulative total
of 90 days per calendar year. A temporary sign may be displayed for a maximum
of 30 additional days if it coincides with the grand opening of a business.
      (4)   Location.
         (a)   Temporary signs must be located on the premises which is the
subject of the temporary sign.
         (b)   For premises with multiple users or tenants, signs must be
located a minimum of 100 feet apart.
         (c)   Off-premises temporary signs shall be permitted. The number of
days an off-premises temporary sign is displayed shall count toward the 90 days
that are allowed for the property which is the subject of the off-premises
sign.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.086 PERMANENT SIGNS.
   The signs listed in this section shall comply with all applicable provisions
of this section and shall require a permit from the city:
   (A)   In Agricultural Zoning Districts the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Within Agricultural Zoning Districts, non-commercial message signs
are permitted as follows:
   Table 8.1 Sign Dimensions in Agricultural Zoning Districts.
 
District Maximum Sign Area of   Total Area of All Maximum Height of Sign
         Single Sign            Signs             Non- Commercial Commercial
A-1      20 sq. ft. per surface 30 sq. ft.        20 ft.          6 ft.
 
      (2)   No more than two non-commercial signs may be displayed per
property.
      (3)   One commercial sign may be displayed per property.
      (4)   Signs must be a minimum distance of ten feet apart.
      (5)   Signs must be a minimum distance of ten feet from a street curb,
driveway, or property line.
      (6)   Any farm identification sign existing prior to December 9, 1997,
shall be considered legally non-conforming and be subject to the regulations of
§
155.083(J).
   (B)   In Residential Zoning Districts the following provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Signs on residential property as follows:
 
District        Maximum Sign Area of   Total Area of All Maximum Height of Sign
                Single Sign            Signs
All R Districts 10 sq. ft. per surface 15 sq. ft.        2 sq. ft.
 
         (a)   No more than two signs may be displayed per property.
         (b)   Signs must be a minimum distance of ten feet apart.
         (c)   Signs shall be a minimum distance of ten feet from the street
curb and property line.
         (d)   All commercial signs shall be constructed of weather resistant
materials that complement the principal structure and not be internally
illuminated.
         (e)   On properties containing a home occupation, one commercial sign
may be displayed if the business does not have a physical presence on another
property and if compliant with the following:
            1.   The sign shall be mounted at to the exterior wall of the
principal structure, except in the RR and R-2 zoning districts where a
freestanding sign shall be allowed if located within five feet of the driveway
and a minimum of 40 feet from the road or 30 feet from the front property line,
whichever is greater.
      (2)   Signs on property used principally for non-residential purposes as
follows:
         (a)   Monument sign.
            1.   No part of sign shall be less than ten feet from any property
line, driveway or parking lot.
            2.   One double-sided monument sign shall be allowed per property.
            3.   The sign area cannot exceed 64 square feet in area per side.
            4.   The sign shall not exceed ten feet in height.
            5.   Dynamic display signs may be included as part of the overall
sign design. Message signs shall not exceed 50% of the overall area of the
monument sign. The sign may be illuminated, but no flashing. Only non-
commercial messages are permitted to be displayed on the sign.
         (b)   Wall sign.
            1.   Location. Wall signs shall be permitted on one wall, except in
the cases of buildings located on corner lots or through lots, which shall be
allowed wall signage on the same number of walls as street frontage.
            2.   Area. The aggregate area of the wall sign on each building
street frontage shall not exceed 5% of the area of the wall to which the sign
is attached, up to a maximum of 100 square feet, on each wall.
   (C)   In Business and Industrial Zoning Districts the following provisions
shall apply:
      (1)   Area. The total area of all signs displayed on a lot shall not
exceed 20% of the area of the front building façade. For buildings located on a
corner lot, the total area of all signs shall not exceed 20% of the area of
either the front or side building facades, whichever is greater. For purposes
of calculating area, the wall itself shall be used. The wall shall not include
the area of any canopy.
      (2)   Monument signs.
         (a)   Location. No part of a freestanding sign shall be less than ten
feet from a side or front lot line or less than five feet from a driveway or
parking area, except in the B-2 Zoning District where a freestanding sign may
be allowed to be located five feet from any property line, parking area, or
driveway.
         (b)   Number.
            1.   No more than one double-side monument sign shall be allowed
per property.
            2.   Lots which have double-frontage on a principal arterial, minor
arterial, or collector road shall be allowed a second monument sign.
         (c)   Area.
            1.   The sign area shall not exceed 96 square feet on each side
with a maximum height of 18 feet.
            2.   The base area of the sign shall be a minimum of two feet in
height and a maximum of 50% of the total height of the sign, except in the B-
2 Zoning District where a maximum size of 32 square feet and a maximum height
of six feet is allowed.
            3.   A second monument sign if permitted, shall not exceed 32
square feet in area and shall have a maximum height of no more than ten feet,
except in the B-2 Zoning District where the height shall be a maximum of no
more than six feet. There is no minimum height for the base of the sign;
however, the base shall not exceed 50% of the total height of the sign.
         (d)   Design. All portions of the sign structure, excluding the sign
area, shall be constructed of the same materials as the principal building.
         (e)   Landscaping. The area around the base of the sign shall be
landscaped with plant materials that blend with the sign structure and are
consistent with other site landscaping.
      (3)   Wall signs.
         (a)   Location. Wall signs shall be erected within the portion or
entryway of the building that is leased or occupied by the business. Wall signs
shall not be attached to any element listed in §
155.024(H).
         (b)   Number. Wall signage shall be permitted on one wall, except in
the cases of buildings located on corner lots or through lots (not adjacent to
a residential district) which shall be allowed wall signage on the same number
of walls as it has street frontages.
         (c)   Area. In addition to the overall sign area limitation as set
forth in division (C)(1) above, the total area of all wall signs on each street
frontage shall not exceed 15% of the area of the wall to which the sign(s) are
attached, up to a maximum size of 200 square feet for each sign.
         (d)   Design. In the B-2 Downtown Commercial District, signs must
contain individual letters and symbols.
      (4)   Small multi-tenant buildings. The following provisions apply to
multi-tenant buildings less than 25,000 square feet in area or any multi-tenant
building with three or fewer occupants, but more than 25,000 square feet in
area:
         (a)   Monument sign. Monument signs are subject to all regulations set
forth in division (C)(2).
         (b)   Wall sign. The aggregate area of such signs shall not exceed 10%
of the area of the exterior wall of the leasehold area. For purposes of
calculating area, the building itself shall be used. The building facade shall
not include the area of any canopy.
      (5)   Large multi-tenant buildings. The following provisions apply to
multiple tenant buildings larger than 25,000 square feet in area and containing
four or more tenants with individual exterior entrances:
         (a)   Freestanding sign.
            1.   Freestanding signs are permitted on property containing multi-
tenant buildings.
            2.   No more than one freestanding sign may be permitted on-site.
            3.   Sign shall not exceed 150 square feet in area.
            4.   Sign shall be no higher than 30 feet.
            5.   Design. All portions of the sign structure, excluding the sign
area, shall be constructed of the same materials as the principal building.
Each business sign, of any type, may contain no information beyond the name,
symbol, and nature of the business conducted on the premises, or the name and
price of a product sold by a business being conducted on the premises.
         (b)   Wall sign. The aggregate area of such signs shall not exceed 10%
of the exterior wall of the leasehold area. For purposes of calculating area,
the building itself shall be used. The building facade shall not include the
area of any canopy.
      (6)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs are permitted in the B-2 Zoning
District, subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   Design. The design of a projecting sign shall be consistent with
the design of the building to which the projecting sign is attached, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Area. The total area of projecting signs is subject to all
regulations set forth in division (C)(3)(c) above.
         (c)   Location. Before installing a projecting sign that extends into
the airspace above the city's public right-of-way, the owner of the property
upon which the projecting sign is to be located must procure and maintain while
the projecting sign is in place, at the owner's sole cost and expense, a policy
of comprehensive general liability insurance on an "occurrence" basis against
claims for personal injury liability, including, without limitation, bodily
injury, death and property damage, with a limit of not less than $1,000,000 per
occurrence. Such insurance shall name the city as an additional insured. The
property owner shall provide the city a certificate of insurance as evidence of
such insurance coverage and a release and hold harmless agreement in form and
content approved by the City Attorney.
         (d)   Height. The bottom of the projecting sign shall be a minimum of
ten feet above ground and the projecting shall not extend above the roof line
of the building to which it is attached.
         (e)   Size. A projecting sign shall not extend more than four feet
beyond the surface of the building to which the projecting sign is affixed. The
sign area of a projecting sign shall not exceed 20 square feet and is subject
to wall sign area limitations as set forth in division (C)(3)(c) above.
      (7)   Canopies and awnings on buildings.
         (a)   The design of canopies shall be in keeping with the overall
building design in terms of location, size, and color.
         (b)   No canopies with visible wall hangers shall be permitted.
         (c)   Signage on canopies may be substituted for allowed wall signage
and shall be limited to 25% of the canopy area.
         (d)   Internally illuminated canopies must be compatible with the
overall color scheme of the building.
      (8)   Canopy signs on motor vehicle stations.
         (a)   Location. Canopy sign(s) are permitted for motor fuel station
properties.
         (b)   Number. Motor fuel stations shall be allowed no more than one
canopy sign, except in cases of buildings located on corner lots, which shall
be allowed one canopy sign per street frontage.
         (c)   Area. The total area of each canopy sign, in addition to being
subject to the overall business sign area limitation as set forth in division
(C)(1) above, shall also not exceed 32 square feet or 25% of the vertical
surface area of the face of the canopy the sign will be affixed to, whichever
is less. Canopy signs shall not be interpreted as wall signs for calculating
the number of signs allowed as described in division (C)(3)(b) above.
      (9)   Dynamic display signs. Dynamic display signs must meet those
standards as provided in §
155.083 above and as follows:
         (a)   Location. Dynamic display signs shall be permitted only on
monument and freestanding
signs.
         (b)   Public road frontage. There shall be no more than one dynamic
display sign per lot. The lot shall have at least 100 feet of continuous road
frontage on the same street.
         (c)   Orientation. In all non-residential districts except the B-
2 District, no dynamic display sign may be located closer than 75 feet from a
lot used exclusively for a residential use or in a residential zone.
         (d)   Sign area.
            1.   Dynamic display signs shall occupy no more than 75% of the
sign area of any sign.
               a.   Monument signs are allowed a dynamic display sign area up
to a maximum size of 32 square feet or 75% of the total sign area, whichever is
less.
               b.   Freestanding signs are allowed dynamic display sign area up
to a maximum size of 50 square feet or 75% of the total sign area, whichever is
less.
            2.   Remainder of the sign shall not have the capacity to have
dynamic displays even if not used; and
            3.   Only one continuous dynamic display area is allowed on a sign
face.
         (e)   Message display.
            1.   Static display. The display must be static and the transition
from one static display to another must be immediate without any special
effects, i.e. fade, dissolve, blink, scroll, or appear to simulate motion in
any way. The images and messages displayed must be complete in themselves
without continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other
sign.
            2.   Duration. The dynamic display may not change or move more
often than once every ten seconds.
            3.   Dimmer control. Dynamic displays must be equipped with
automatic dimming technology or other mechanisms that automatically adjust the
sign's illumination level based on ambient light conditions.
            4.   Resolution. The sign must have a maximum pixel size of 17 mm
(millimeter) spacing to provide a detailed display necessary for clear and
adequate visibility.
            5.   Brightness.
               a.   No sign may exceed a maximum illumination of .3 (3/10th's)
candelas above ambient light level vs. other methods and as measured 50 feet
from the sign's face. The city may, at its discretion, meter the dynamic
display to determine that the sign's illumination is no greater than .3 (3/
10th's) candelas.
               b.   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance as to impair
the vision of a motor vehicle driver with average eyesight or to otherwise
interfere with the driver's operation of a motor vehicle.
               c.   No sign may be of such intensity or brilliance that it
interferes with the effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device, or
signal.
               d.   The person owning or controlling the sign must adjust the
sign to meet the brightness standards in accordance with the city's
instructions. The adjustment must be made immediately upon notice of non-
compliance from the city.
            6.   Color. Full color dynamic display signs are permitted.
            7.   Letter size. Every line of copy and graphics in a dynamic
display must be at a minimum:
               a.   Seven inches in height on a road with a speed limit of 30
mph or less;
               b.   Nine inches in height on a road with a speed limit of 31 to
45 mph;
               c.   Twelve inches in height on a road with a speed limit of 46
to 55 mph; and
               d.   Fifteen inches in height on a road with a speed limit of 56
mph or greater.
               e.   If there is insufficient room for copy and graphics of this
size in the area allowed, then no dynamic display is allowed.
            8.   Design. All dynamic displays shall be designed to be an
integral part of the overall sign; including color, materials, etc., and in no
case may the dynamic display be wider than the remaining portion of the
monument sign.
            9.   Audio. No dynamic display sign may have audio speakers or any
audio component.
            10.   Malfunction. The display must be designed and equipped to
freeze the device in one position if a malfunction occurs. The display must
also be equipped with a means to immediately discontinue the display if it
malfunctions, and the sign owner must immediately stop the dynamic display when
notified by the city that it is not complying with the standards of this
section.
            11.   Non-compliance. The Zoning Administrator shall review non-
compliant dynamic display signs. If the property owner has not corrected the
non-compliance as determined by the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning
Administrator may issue an administrative citation in accordance with the
city's administrative enforcement policy and/or the non-compliance shall result
in forfeiture of the permit, and the city shall be authorized to arrange
disconnection of electrical service to the facility.
         (f)   Permitting process. The property owner must obtain a permit to
operate a dynamic display sign and shall sign a form agreeing to the operation
of the sign in conformance to the city's dynamic display regulations. A sign
permit shall be issued after receipt of an application fee, sign design, site
plan, and dynamic display information has been submitted, reviewed and approved
by the Zoning Administrator, or its designee.
   (D)   In a Public and Institutional Zoning District, the following
provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Monument sign.
         (a)   No part of sign shall be less than ten feet from any property
line, driveway, or parking lot.
         (b)   One double-sided monument sign shall be allowed per property.
         (c)   The sign area cannot exceed 64 square feet in area.
         (d)   The height of the sign shall not exceed ten feet.
         (e)   Dynamic display signs may be included as part of the overall
sign design. Message signs shall not exceed 50% of the overall area of the
identification sign. The sign may be illuminated, but no flashing. Only non-
commercial messages are permitted to be displayed on the sign.
      (2)   Wall sign.
         (a)   Wall signs shall be permitted on one wall, except in the cases
of buildings located on corner lots, or through lots which shall be allowed
wall signage on the same number of walls as street frontage.
      (3)   Signs on properties designated as parks/open space in the St.
Michael comprehensive plan.
         (a)   The Park Board reviews each proposal and makes a recommendation
to the City Council.
         (b)   The City Council shall hold a public hearing and notify any
property owner within 500 feet of the proposed sign locations.
         (c)   The number, location, and materials of signs for each proposal
shall be determined on an individual basis, and shall be based on the park
layout, natural surroundings, and potential visual impact to surrounding
properties and scenic views.
         (d)   To the extent possible, signs shall only be installed during the
playing season for which the signs are intended.
         (e)   The city shall have the right to remove signs if they are not
properly maintained as necessary for public health, safety and welfare, all as
determined by the City's Zoning Administrator.
         (f)   All profits generated by the signs shall be allocated to capital
improvements of the park in which the signs are located.
         (g)   A written agreement shall be prepared by the city to be signed
by the city and all involved parties, identifying the parameter of the signs
and responsibilities of maintenance and nancing for the signs.
      (E)   Planned unit development districts. Within a planned unit
development district regulated by §
155.051 of this chapter, sign allowances shall be based upon the individual
uses and structures within the development in compliance with the standards
applied for the conventional zoning district where such uses are allowed,
unless otherwise defined in the planned unit development agreement.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.087 PERMITS REQUIRED, INSPECTION AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
155.085 no sign or structure shall be erected, constructed, altered, rebuilt,
or relocated until a permit has first been approved by the Zoning Administrator
and issued by the Building Official.
      (1)   Application processing and action.
         (a)   Within 15 working days of receiving an application for a sign
permit, the Zoning Administrator shall review it for completeness. If the
application is complete, it shall then be processed. If the Zoning
Administrator finds that it is incomplete, the Zoning Administrator shall,
within such 15 working day period, send to the applicant a notice of the
specific ways in which the application is deficient, with appropriate
references to the applicable sections of the City Code.
         (b)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the city shall review
and comment upon application and shall either:
            1.   Issue the sign permit, if the sign(s) that is the subject of
the application conforms in every respect with the requirements of the city
code.
            2.   Reject the sign permit if the sign(s) that is the subject of
the application fails in any way to conform to the requirements of the city
code.
            3.   In case of a rejection, the Zoning Administrator and/or
Building Official shall specify in the rejection the section or sections of the
city code with which the sign(s) is inconsistent.
            4.   If the work authorized under a permit has not been initiated
within 60 days after the date of issuance, the permit shall be null and void.
      (2)   Fees. Fees for the review and processing of sign permit
applications shall be imposed in accordance with the fee schedule as adopted by
City Council.
   (B)   Inspection. All signs shall be subject to inspection by the Zoning
Administrator and/or Building Official.
   (C)   Removal of signs.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official shall order the
removal of any illegal non-conforming sign erected or maintained in violation
of the city code. Notice in writing shall be given by the city to the owner of
such sign, or of the building, structure, or property on which such sign is
located, to remove the sign or to bring it into compliance with the provisions
of this section within 15 days from the date of said notice.
      (2)   Upon failure to remove the sign or to comply with this notice, the
city may remove the sign. Any costs of removal incurred by the city shall be
assessed to the owner of the property on which such sign is located and may be
collected in the manner of ordinary debt or in the manner of taxes, and all
costs shall be assessed against the property.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Building Official may order the
immediate removal of any sign without notice which is in violation of any of
the following:
         (a)   Signs located within the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Temporary signs that have exceeded the time limits allowed in
this division.
         (c)   The condition of the sign is such as to present an immediate
threat to the safety of the public.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 155.091 COMMON PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Authority to file applications.
      (1)   Land use applications for an individual property may be initiated
by:
         (a)   The owner of the property that is the subject of the
application; or
         (b)   An agent authorized by the owner of the property that is the
subject of the application, which may include a lessee of the property.
Evidence of such authorization shall be the signature of the property owner.
         (c)   If the property subject to an application is under more than one
ownership, all owners or their authorized agents shall join in filing the
application.
      (2)   The Planning Commission and City Council may initiate text and map
amendments to this chapter. If the subject of the amendment is a specific site
or project, the Planning Commission or City Council may initiate amendments
with or without application from the owner.
   (B)   Application submittal.
      (1)   Each complete land use application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following:
         (a)   An application on an official application form.
         (b)   Non-refundable application fee as established by City Council
resolution.
         (c)   All those application materials required that are specific to
the application.
      (2)   An application will not be accepted until all required materials
have been submitted.
   (C)   Application review procedure.
      (1)   Technical assistance.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the Zoning Administrator
shall, when deemed necessary, refer the request to appropriate staff to ensure
that informational requirements are complied with.
         (b)   Also, when deemed necessary, the Zoning Administrator shall
instruct the appropriate staff persons to prepare technical reports and/or
provide general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the request to the
Planning Commission and City Council.
      (2)   Public hearing.
         (a)   Upon official submission of the request, the Zoning
Administrator shall set a public hearing on the request for the next available
regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
         (b)   Such notice shall contain a legal property description and
description of the request and shall be published no more than 30 days and no
less than ten days prior to the hearing.
         (c)   Written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed at
least ten working days prior to the date of the hearing to all owners of land
within 350 feet of the boundary of the property in question.
         (d)   Failure of a property owner to receive said notice shall not
invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this section.
         (e)   At the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall hear all
such persons as wish to be heard.
         (f)   The applicant or a representative thereof shall appear to answer
questions concerning the proposed request.
      (3)   Planning Commission action.
         (a)   The Planning Commission and city staff shall have the authority
to request additional information from the applicant concerning operational
factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of
the applicant concerning operational factors, said information to be declared
necessary to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall make findings of fact and
recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request as they deem
necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of the chapter. Such
recommendation shall be in writing and accompanied by any report and
recommendation of the city staff.
         (c)   The written recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be
referred to the City Council within 60 days of the opening of the public
hearing.
      (4)   City Council action.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission report and
recommendation, or within 60 days of the opening of the public hearing by the
Planning Commission, the City Council shall review the application.
         (b)   The City Council shall have the option to set and hold a public
hearing if deemed necessary and shall make recorded findings of fact.
         (c)   The City Council shall review and approve, approve with
conditions, or deny the application.
         (d)   The City Council shall state in writing its findings for
approval or denial, as well as any conditions of approval.
      (5)   Recording. When conditions have been satisfied by the applicant,
the city shall file a copy of all required documents, such as ordinances,
resolutions, and agreements, with Wright County.
   (D)   Withdrawal of applications.
      (1)   Any request for withdrawal of an application shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   In all cases where the applicant has requested the withdrawal of an
application, the associated feed paid and any costs incurred by the city in the
processing of the application shall not be refunded.
   (E)   Successive applications.
      (1)   Whenever an application for an amendment or conditional use permit
has been considered and denied by the City Council, a similar application for
the amendment or conditional use permit affecting substantially the same
property shall not be considered again by the Planning Commission or City
Council for at least six months from the date of its denial; and a subsequent
application affecting substantially the same property shall likewise not be
considered again by the Planning Commission or City Council for an additional
six months from the date of the second denial unless a decision to reconsider
such matter is made by not less than four-fifths vote of the full City Council.
   (F)   Appeal of decision.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for an appeal
process where it is alleged that there is an error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination by the city or in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Appeals of administrative decisions.
         (a)   The Planning Commission, serving as the Board of Adjustment and
Appeals, shall, after receiving the written report and recommendation of the
city staff, make findings of fact and make a decision on appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that error has occurred in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement
of this chapter, and for variances from the literal provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   An appeal shall be filed not later than 60 days after the
applicant has received a written notice from the Zoning Administrator or the
appeal shall be considered void.
         (c)   A public hearing shall not be required prior to the Planning
Commission's decision on an appeal.
            1.   Written notice shall be mailed by the Zoning Administrator to
the applicant and all landowners abutting the subject property of the proposed
appeal at least ten days before the Planning Commission considers the appeal.
            2.   The notice shall contain a brief description of the appeal
sought, along with notice of the date, time, and place of the Planning
Commission meeting wherein the appeal will be considered.
            3.   Failure of the Zoning Administrator to comply with the notice
provisions of this section shall not affect the validity of any subsequent
proceedings.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall render a decision on the appeal
within 60 days from the date upon which the application for the appeal was
deemed complete, unless extended as permitted by M.S. § 15.99 and any
amendments thereto.
      (3)   Appeals of Planning Commission decisions.
         (a)   Appeals from decisions of the Planning Commission acting as the
Board of Adjustments and Appeals shall be heard by the City Council as provided
for by M.S. § 462.354, before any judicial review under M.S. § 462.361 may be
initiated.
         (b)   An application for appeal to the City Council, requesting the
Council to reconsider the decision of the Planning Commission, shall be
received no later than 30 days after the date the Planning Commission has
issued its written findings of fact and decision. The application for appeal
shall set forth reasons that the appeal is justified in order to make
reasonable use of the land, structure, or building, and that the appeal is the
minimum request.
         (c)   A fee shall be charged pursuant to a fee schedule adopted from
time to time by resolution of the City Council on all appeal requests. The fee
shall accompany the application request by the appellant and shall not be
refundable.
         (d)   The City Council shall take action on the appellant's request no
later than 45 days after the date upon which the appellant's written request
and the application fee has been received by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Appeals of City Council decisions.
         (a)   Any aggrieved person shall have the right to appeal any land use
decision by the City Council to the District Court for Wright County. Any
person seeking judicial review under this chapter must appeal within 30 days
after delivery of the decision to the appellant.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.092 SITE PLAN REVIEW AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish a formal plan
review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of site
design and construction standards as agreed to by the contractor through
officially submitted plan documents.
   (B)   Applicability. Site plan review is required for the construction,
expansion, alteration, or change in the use of multi-family residential,
commercial, or industrial projects.
   (C)   Procedure. The application for site plan review shall be made and
processed using the same procedure as outlined in §
155.091, except that a public hearing shall only be required when the proposal
changes an existing non-conforming use.
   (D)   Plan agreements. All site and construction plans officially submitted
to the city shall be treated as a formal agreement between the building
contractor and the city. Once approved, no changes, modifications or
alterations shall be made to any plan detail, standards, or specifications
without prior submission of a plan modification request to the Building
Official for review and approval.
   (E)   Enforcement. The Building Official shall have the authority to order
the stopping of any and all site improvement activities, when and where a
violation of the provisions of this section has been officially documented by
the Building Official.
   (F)   Minor site plan review.
      (1)   The following minor changes to a site plan may be reviewed and
approved administratively by the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   Minor site plans for the expansion of a building where the
proposed expansion is not more than 20% of the existing main floor footprint of
the building, subject to a maximum 10,000 square foot expansion;
         (b)   Minor site plans for the expansion of a parking lot where the
proposed expansion is not greater than 20% of the square footage of the
existing parking lot; and
         (c)   Include in the minor site plan review requirements for such
items as dumpsters, landscaping, and building materials.
      (2)   Any proposed expansion to a property subject to an existing
Conditional Use Permit (CUP), must comply with the procedures and requirements
set forth in §
155.094 of this subchapter instead of the minor site plan review process set
forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may choose to refer any site plan to the
Planning Commission and City Council for further review. If the site plan is
referred to the Planning Commission and City Council, the Council shall make
the final decision.
   (G)   Lapse of site plan approval. Site plan approval shall become null and
void if within one year after site plan approval if the construction of the
improvements shown on the site plan has not substantially commenced (as
determined by the Building Official, Engineer, and Planner) unless a petition
for an extension of time within which to complete the site plan improvements is
granted by the City Council.
      (1)   Such extension shall be requested in writing and led with the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
approved site plan.
      (2)   There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The
request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete or utilize the site plan permitted.
      (3)   Such petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for a
recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.093 LAND ALTERATION PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   Except for a governmental jurisdiction and in cases where a grading
and drainage plan for a private development has been approved as part of a
subdivision or other development:
         (a)   The extraction of sand, gravel, black dirt, or other natural
material from the land or the grading of land by a person in the amount of 50
cubic yards or more shall be termed "land excavation/grading" and shall require
a permit. Excavation/grading activities which qualify as mining operations
shall be subject to other applicable sections of the city code.
            1.   Basement excavation or other excavation/grading which is
already covered by the Building Code or other such regulations of the city
shall not require a land alteration permit.
         (b)   Any person who proposes to add fill in excess of 50 cubic yards
to any property within the city limits shall require a land alteration permit.
            1.   No permit will be required for depositing land fill on a lot
for which a building permit has been issued for construction thereon.
   (B)   Technical reports. The Zoning Administrator shall process all land
alteration permit applications. The Zoning Administrator shall immediately upon
receipt of such applications forward a copy thereof to the City Engineer and
Building Official. These technical advisors shall be instructed by the Zoning
Administrator to prepare reports for the City Council. Where watersheds,
floodplains, and/or wetlands are in question, the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources shall also be contacted.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. Upon receiving information and reports from the
city staff and other applicable agencies, the Zoning Administrator shall make
its determination as to whether, when, and under what conditions such permit
for land alteration is to be issued to the applicant by the city.
   (D)   Conditions of land alteration permit. The City Council may require the
following conditions of approval of any land alteration permit:
      (1)   Properly fence the excavation;
      (2)   Slope the banks and otherwise properly guard to keep the excavation
in such condition as not to be dangerous from caving or sliding banks;
      (3)   Properly drain, fill in, or level the excavation after it has been
created, so as to make the same safe and healthful as the City Council shall
determine;
      (4)   Keep the excavation/grading within the limits for which the
particular permit is granted;
      (5)   Remove excavated/graded material from the excavation, away from the
premises upon and along such highways, streets, or other public ways as the
city shall order and direct;
      (6)   Retain and store topsoil from the site in question and utilize such
materials in the restoration of the site; and
      (7)   Use replacement material consisting of clean fill. The introduction
of foreign substances or material that does not constitute clean fill is
prohibited.
      (8)   Unless expressly extended by permit, the hours of operation shall
be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
      (9)   Under no circumstances shall any landfill operation be conducted or
permitted if the contents of the landfill or any part thereof shall consist of
garbage, animal, vegetable, or plant, refuse, poisons, contaminants, chemicals,
decayed material, filth, sewage or similar septic or biologically dangerous
material, or any other material deemed to be unsuitable by the city.
   (E)   Security. The city may require either the applicant or the owner or
user of the property on which the land alteration is occurring to post a
security in accordance with the city's Policy on Performance Security and
Escrow for Improvement Projects.
   (F)   Failure to comply.
      (1)   The city may, for failure of any person to comply with any
requirement made of them in writing under the provisions of such permit,
proceed to cause the requirement to be complied with, and the cost of such work
shall be taxed against the property whereon the land alteration is located, or
the city may, at its option, proceed to collect such costs by an action against
the person to whom such permit has been issued and their superiors if a
security exists.
      (2)   In the event that land alteration operations requiring a permit
commenced prior to city review and approval, the city may require work stopped
and all necessary applications filed and processed.
      (3)   Application fees shall be double the normal charge.
   (G)   Completion of alteration.
      (1)   All land alteration operations shall be completed within 90 days of
the issuance of the permit. Upon completion, the permit holder shall notify the
city in writing of the date of completion.
      (2)   If additional time beyond the 90 days is needed for completion, the
permit holder may apply to the city and upon a satisfactory showing of need,
the city may grant an extension of time. If such extension is granted, it shall
be for a definite period and the city shall issue an extension permit.
Extensions shall only be granted in cases where the permit holder shows that
good faith efforts were made to complete the excavation/grading operation
within 90 days and that failure to complete the operation was due to
circumstances beyond the permit holder's control, such as a teamsters' strike,
unusually inclement weather, illness, or other such valid and reasonable excuse
for noncompletion.
      (3)   In the event a request for an extension is denied, the permit
holder shall be allowed a reasonable time to comply with the other provisions
of this chapter relating to grading, leveling, and seeding or sodding. What
constitutes such "reasonable time" shall be determined by the City Engineer
after inspecting the premises.
      (4)   At the completion of a land alteration operation, the premises
shall be graded with erosion control, leveled, and seeded or sodded with grass
or native vegetation.
         (a)   The grade shall be such elevation with reference to any abutting
street or public way as the City Engineer shall prescribe in the permit.
         (b)   The site shall also conform to such prerequisites as the City
Engineer may determine with reference to storm water drainage runoff and storm
water passage or flowage so that the excavation cannot become a source of, or
an aggravation to, storm water drainage conditions in the area. The City
Engineer shall inspect the project following completion to determine if the
applicant has complied with the conditions imposed as part of the permit.
         (c)   Failure of such compliance shall result in the withholding of
any building permits for the site and notice of such withholding shall be filed
in the office of the County Recorder for the purposes of putting subsequent
purchasers on notice.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.094 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT (CUP).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a CUP is to provide the city with a reasonable
degree of discretion in determining the suitability of certain designated uses
upon the general welfare and public health and safety.
   (B)   Procedure. The application for a CUP shall be made and processed using
the same procedure as outlined in §
155.091.
   (C)   In making its determination, the City Council may consider the
following criteria:
      (1)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with the
official City Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and future
land uses of the area;
      (3)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained
herein;
      (4)   The proposed use will not tend to or actually depreciate the area
in which it is proposed;
      (5)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public services
and will not overburden the city's service capacity; and
      (6)   All other or future factors as the city shall deem a prerequisite
of consideration in determining the effect of the use on the general welfare
and public health and safety.
   (D)   Conditions.
      (1)   In reviewing applications for CUPs, the Planning Commission and
Council may impose any reasonable conditions deemed necessary to mitigate
anticipated adverse impacts associated with these uses, to protect the value of
property within the district, and to achieve the goals and objectives of the
comprehensive plan. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Controlling the number, area, bulk, height, and location of such
uses;
         (b)   Regulating ingress and egress to the property and the proposed
structures thereon with particular reference to vehicle and pedestrian safety
and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or other
catastrophe;
         (c)   Regulating off-street parking and loading areas where required;
         (d)   Regulating utilities with reference to location availability and
compatibility;
         (e)   Requiring berming, fencing, screening, landscaping, or other
means to protect nearby property;
         (f)   Requiring compatibility of appearance; and
         (g)   Meeting the intent of other city zoning ordinances or code
provisions.
      (2)   In determining such conditions, special consideration shall be
given to protecting immediately adjacent properties from objectionable views,
noise, traffic, and other negative characteristics associated with such uses.
   (E)   Lapse of CUP by non-use.
      (1)   Whenever within one year after granting a CUP the use as permitted
by the permit has not commenced, then such permit shall become null and void
unless a petition for an extension of time in which to commence the use has
been granted by the City Council.
         (a)   Such extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
CUP.
         (b)   There shall be no charge for the filing of such petition.
         (c)   The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to commence the use permitted in the CUP.
         (d)   Such petition shall be presented to the Planning Commission for
a recommendation and to the City Council for a decision.
   (F)   Security.
      (1)   Except in the case of non-income-producing residential property,
upon approval of a CUP, the city shall be provided with a letter of credit,
cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities, or cash deposit prior to the
issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed improvements
or development. Said security shall be non-cancelable and shall guarantee
conformance and compliance with the conditions of the CUP and the ordinances
and code provisions of the city.
      (2)   The security shall be in the amount of 1½ times the City Engineer's
or a certified appraiser's estimated costs of labor and materials for the
proposed improvements or development. The project can be handled in stages upon
the discretion of the City Engineer and Building Official.
      (3)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the proposed
improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the CUP and ordinances and code provisions of the city has been
issued by the City Building Official.
      (4)   Failure to comply with the conditional use permit or the ordinances
or code provisions of the city shall result in forfeiture of the security for
action necessary on the part of the city to correct problems or de ciencies.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.095 INTERIM USE PERMIT (IUP).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses is to allow a
use:
      (1)   For a limited period of time that reasonably utilizes the property
where it is not reasonable to utilize it in the manner provided in the
comprehensive plan; and
      (2)   That is presently acceptable but that, with anticipated
development, will not be acceptable in the future.
   (B)   Procedure. The application for an IUP shall be made and processed
using the same procedure as outlined in §
155.091.
   (C)   Standards. The Planning Commission shall recommend an IUP, and the
Council shall issue such
IUP, only if they find that such use at the proposed location:
      (1)   Meets the standards of CUP set forth in §
155.094;
      (2)   Will terminate upon a date or event that can be identified with
certainty;
      (3)   Will not impose, by agreement, additional costs on the public if it
is necessary for the public to take the property in the future; and
      (4)   Will be subjected to, by agreement with the owner, any conditions
that the City Council has deemed appropriate for permission of the use,
including a condition that the owner will provide an appropriate financial
surety to cover the cost of removing the interim use and any interim structures
upon the expiration of the interim use permit.
   (D)   Termination. An IUP shall terminate upon the occurrence of any of the
following events, whichever first occurs:
      (1)   The date stated in the permit;
      (2)   A violation of conditions under which the permit was issued;
      (3)   The occurrence of an event outlined in the permit that terminates
the interim use; or
      (4)   The discontinuance of the use for a minimum of six months.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.096 VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall be the Board of Adjustments and Appeals
as provided for by M.S. § 462.354, Subd. 2, and shall have the power and
authority to grant variances from any official control including restrictions
placed on nonconformities and to impose such conditions in the granting of
variances which are directly related to and bear a rough proportionality to the
impact created by the variance.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide for a process for
granting variances from the literal provisions of this chapter in instances
where it is established by the applicant that a non-economic practical
difficulty in the reasonable use of a specific parcel of property exists and
the requirements of this section have been met.
   (C)   Procedure. The application for a variance shall be made and processed
using the following procedure:
      (1)   Applicant shall submit a complete application including an
application form, fee, and any necessary materials.
      (2)   Application for a variance shall set forth reasons that the
variance is justified in order to make reasonable use of the land, structure,
or building, and that the variance is the minimum variance.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be required prior to Planning Commission's
decision on the issuance of a variance.
         (a)   Written notice shall be mailed by the Zoning Administrator, or
its designee, to the applicant and all landowners abutting the subject property
of the proposed variance at least ten days before the Planning Commission
considers the application for the variance.
         (b)   The notice shall contain a brief description of variance sought,
along with notice of the date, time, and place of the Planning Commission
meeting wherein the variance will be considered.
         (c)   Failure of the Zoning Administrator to comply with the notice
provisions of this section shall not affect the validity of any subsequent
proceedings.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall render a decision on the variance
application within 60 days from the date upon which the application was deemed
complete unless extended as permitted by M.S. § 15.99 and any amendments
thereto.
   (D)   Requirements for variance approval.
      (1)   In considering all requests for a variance, the Planning Commission
shall make findings of fact that the proposed action complies with the
requirements of M.S. § 462.357 and any amendments thereto, which include but
are not limited to:
         (a)   Variances shall only be permitted when they meet the following:
            1.   They are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
the ordinance; and
            2.   The variances are consistent with the comprehensive plan.
         (b)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
         (c)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES as used in connection with the granting
of a variance, means that:
            1.   The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance; and
            2.   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner;
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute
practical difficulties. Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may not permit as a variance any use that
is not allowed under the zoning ordinance for property in the zone where the
affected person's land is located.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may impose conditions in the granting of
variances. A condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (E)   Lapse of variance; requests for extension. Whenever within one year
after granting a variance the construction of the improvements permitted by the
variance has not substantially commenced, then such variance shall become null
and void unless a petition for extension of time in which to complete or to
utilize the use has been granted by the City Council.
      (1)   Such extension shall be requested in writing and led with the
Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the expiration of the original
variance.
      (2)   The request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith
attempt to commence construction of the improvements permitted in the variance.
   (F)   Security. In such cases as a variance is approved contingent upon
certain conditions imposed by the Council, the Council may require a
performance bond to be provided as specified in §
155.094(F).
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-0-24)
§ 155.097 ZONING CODE TEXT OR MAP AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. Whenever the public necessity, convenience, general welfare,
or good zoning practice requires, the city may, by ordinance:
      (1)   Amend, change, or supplement the text of the regulations
established by this chapter or amendments thereto; or
      (2)   Change the district boundaries established by this chapter and the
Zoning Map incorporated herein.
   (B)   Procedure. The application for a text or map amendment shall be made
and processed using the same procedure as outlined in §
155.091.
      (1)   The City Council may adopt and amend a zoning ordinance by a
majority vote of all its members. The adoption or amendment of any portion of a
zoning ordinance which changes all or part of the existing classification of a
zoning district from residential to either commercial or industrial requires a
two-thirds majority vote of the City Council.
      (2)   A zoning code amendment shall not become effective until such time
as the City Council approves an ordinance or code provision reflecting the
amendment and after the ordinance or code provision is published in the
official newspaper.
   (C)   The City Council shall consider possible adverse effects of the
proposed amendment. Its judgment shall be based upon (but not limited to) the
following criteria:
      (1)   The proposed action has been considered in relation to the specific
policies and provisions of and has been found to be consistent with the
official City Comprehensive Plan;
      (2)   The proposed use is or will be compatible with present and future
land uses of the area;
      (3)   The proposed use conforms with all performance standards contained
herein;
      (4)   The proposed use will not tend to or actually depreciate the area
in which it is proposed; and
      (5)   The proposed use can be accommodated with existing public services
and will not overburden the city's service capacity.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.098 PROCEDURE FOR PROCESSING A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD).
   (A)   Application conference. Prior to filing an application for PUD, the
applicant shall arrange for and attend a conference with the Zoning
Administrator. At such conference, the applicant shall be prepared to generally
describe the proposal for a PUD. The primary purpose of the conference is to
provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather information and obtain
guidance as to the general suitability of the proposal for the area and its
conformity to the provisions of this chapter before incurring substantial
expense.
   (B)   Review stages. Three review stages are required: PUD Concept Plan,
Preliminary PUD Plan and Final PUD Plan.
   (C)   PUD Concept Plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The PUD Concept Plan provides an opportunity for the
applicant to submit a plan to the city showing the basic intent and the general
nature of the entire development without incurring substantial cost. This
Concept Plan serves as the basis for public review so that the proposal may be
considered at an early stage. The following elements of the proposed general
concept plan represent the immediately significant elements, which the city
shall review and provide direction on:
         (a)   Overall maximum PUD density range.
         (b)   General location of major streets and pedestrian ways.
         (c)   General location and extent of public and common open space.
         (d)   General location of residential and nonresidential land uses
with approximate type and intensities of development.
         (e)   Staging and time schedule of development.
         (f)   Other special criteria for development.
      (2)   Process.
         (a)   Applicant meets with the Zoning Administrator to discuss the
proposed development.
         (b)   Applicant submits plans and supporting information to
sufficiently portray the proposed development.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall review the concept plan and
provide feedback to the applicant.
         (d)   The City Council shall review the concept plan and provide
feedback to the applicant.
         (e)   This process is intended to inform the applicant of the purpose
and objectives of these regulations, the comprehensive plan, and duly adopted
plan implementation devices of the city. Discussions that occur as part of the
concept plan process are not binding on the city and do not constitute official
assurances or representations on the city.
   (D)   Preliminary PUD Plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the Preliminary PUD Plan is to provide a
specific and particular plan and Preliminary Plat upon which the Planning
Commission will hold a public hearing and make a recommendation to the City
Council.
      (2)   Process.
         (a)   Within six months of review of the PUD Concept Plan, the
applicant shall file an application for Preliminary PUD Plan approval with the
Zoning Administrator.
            1.   This application shall consist of the information and
submissions required by §
151.091(B).
         (b)   The application for the Preliminary PUD Plan shall be reviewed
following the process established in §
155.091(C) except that notice shall be mailed to all property owners within 350
feet of the boundary of the property in question.
         (c)   Upon approval of the Preliminary PUD Plan by the City Council,
the following may occur:
            1.   The applicant may proceed to prepare a Final PUD Plan. A Final
PUD Plan shall be filed within six months from the date of Preliminary PUD Plan
approval, or the Preliminary PUD Plan approval shall expire. Upon application
by the applicant, the Council may extend the filing deadline for any Final Plan
for not more than six months when, for good cause shown, such extension is
necessary.
            2.   The applicant may, pursuant to the applicable ordinances of
the city, apply for, and the City Engineer may issue, grading permits for the
area within the PUD for which Preliminary PUD Plan approval has been given.
   (E)   Final PUD Plan.
      (1)   Purpose. The Final PUD Plan is to serve as a complete, thorough and
permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is to be
developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved modi
cations thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in conjunction
with other city ordinances as the land use regulation applicable to the PUD.
The Final PUD Plan is intended only to add detail to, and to put in final form,
the information contained in the Preliminary PUD Plan and shall conform to the
Preliminary PUD Plan in all respects.
      (2)   The submission may be for the entire PUD, or for one or more stages
thereof in accordance with a staging plan approved as part of the Preliminary
PUD Plan.
      (3)   The Final PUD Plan shall refine, implement, and be in substantial
conformity with the approved Preliminary PUD Plan. A Final PUD Plan shall be
deemed not to be in substantial conformity with an approved Preliminary PUD
Plan if it:
         (a)   Departs by more than 5% from the maximum density approved for
the PUD or exceeds the implied maximum density established by the comprehensive
plan for the area in which the PUD will be located.
         (b)   Decreases by more than 5% the area approved for public and
common open space or changes the general location of such areas.
         (c)   Relocates approved circulation elements to any extent that would
decrease their functionality, adversely affect their relation to surrounding
lands and circulation elements or reduce their effectiveness as buffers or
amenities.
         (d)   Significantly alters the arrangement of land uses within the
PUD.
         (e)   Delays by more than one year any stage of an approved staging
plan.
         (f)   Departs from the Preliminary PUD Plan in any other manner which
the Planning Commission shall, based on stated findings and conclusions, find
to materially alter the plan for the proposed PUD.
      (4)   Process.
         (a)   Upon approval of the Preliminary PUD Plan, the applicant shall
file with the Zoning Administrator a Final PUD Plan within 12 months for the
entire PUD or for one or more stages. This application will be considered at
the next possible regular City Council meeting.
         (b)   Within 60 days, the City Council shall grant approval or denial
of the request.
         (c)   Within 120 days of its approval, the applicant shall cause the
Final PUD Plan, or such portions thereof as are appropriate, to be recorded
with the Wright County Recorder or Registrar of Titles. The applicant shall
provide the city with a signed copy verifying county recording within 40 days
of the date of approval.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall instruct the City Attorney to
draw up a PUD Agreement, which stipulates the specific terms and conditions
approved by the City Council and accepted by the applicant. This agreement
shall be signed by the Mayor, City Administrator, and the applicant within 120
days of City Council approval of the Final PUD Plan. In all cases, a certified
copy of the document evidencing City Council action shall be promptly delivered
to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   Building and other permits. Except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, upon receiving notice from the Zoning Administrator that the
approved Final PUD Plan has been recorded and upon application of the applicant
pursuant to the applicable ordinances of the city, all appropriate officials of
the city may issue building and other permits to the applicant for development,
construction and other work in the area.
         (f)   Limitation on Final Plan approval. Within one year after the
approval of a Final Plan for PUD, or such shorter time as may be established by
the approved development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with such approved plan. Failure to commence construction within such period
shall automatically render void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD
plan unless an extension shall have been granted as hereinafter provided. The
time limit established by this division may, at the discretion of the City
Council, be extended for not more than one year by resolution duly adopted.
         (g)   Inspections during development.
            1.   Following Final PUD Plan approval, the Zoning Administrator
shall annually review all permits issued and construction undertaken and
compare actual development with the approved development schedule.
            2.   If the Zoning Administrator finds that development is not
proceeding in accordance with the approved schedule, or that it fails in any
other respect to comply with the PUD plans as finally approved, he or she shall
immediately notify the City Council. Within 30 days of such notice, the City
Council shall:
               a.   By ordinance revoke the PUD permit, and the land shall
thereafter be governed by the regulations applicable in the district in which
it is located;
               b.   Take such steps as it shall deem necessary to compel
compliance with the Final Plans as approved; or
               c.   Shall require the landowner or applicant to seek an
amendment of the Final Plan.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
§ 155.099 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, this chapter shall be administered and
enforced by the Zoning Administrator who is appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, the Zoning Administrator may institute
in the name of the city any appropriate actions or proceedings against a
violator as provided by statute, chapter, or ordinance.
   (C)   Penalty.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, any person who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more
than the maximum penalty for a misdemeanor prescribed under state law. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   A violation of §§
155.081 et seq. shall be a misdemeanor, punishable according to law. Each day
that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. In
addition thereto, the city may seek injunctive relief in the County District
Court to require conformance with §§
155.081 et seq. All costs and reasonable attorney fees incurred by the city in
enforcing the provisions of §§
155.081 et seq. shall be paid by the violator of those sections.
(Ord. 2402, passed 12-10-24)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
      
IV.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Annexation of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
85       6-22-93     Quarter of Section 11, Township 120, Range 24, Wright
                     County.
                     Annexation of that part of the west half of the Southwest
88       6-28-94     Quarter of Section 11, Township 120, Range 24, Wright
                     County, lying northerly and easterly of the center line of
                     Wright County Highway No. 119, containing 6.34 acres.
                     Annexation of a part of the Southeast Quarter of the
92       8-22-95     Southwest Quarter of Section 13, Township 120, Range 24,
                     Wright County.
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company, its successors
12       10-2-56     and assigns, a franchise to construct, operate, repair,
                     and maintain an electric distribution system and
                     transmission lines for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company, its successors
28       3-9-76      and assigns, a franchise to construct, operate, repair,
                     and maintain an electric distribution system and
                     transmission lines for a period of 20 years.
                     Authorizing the assignment and transfer of a cable
                     communications extension permit from Rite Cable Company of
61       2-24-87     Minnesota, Ltd., a Minnesota limited partnership, to Jones
                     Intercable, Inc., a Colorado corporation and/or one or
                     more of its affiliates.
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company, its successors
130      9-12-00     and assigns, a franchise to construct, operate, repair,
                     and maintain a gas distribution system and necessary gas
                     pipes, mains and appurtenances for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting an electric franchise to Northern States Power
0314     11-25-03    Company to construct, operate, repair and maintain an
                     electric distribution system.
                     Implementing an electric franchisee fee on Northern States
0315     11-25-03    Power D/B/A XCEL energy for providing electric service
                     within the city.
                     Granting to Centerpoint Energy Resources Corp., its
0504     10-11-05    successors and assigns, a nonexclusive franchise for 20
                     years for the transportation, distribution, manufacture
                     and sale of gas energy.
                     Granting to Wright-Hennepin Cooperative Electric
                     Association, its successors and assigns, permission to
                     construct, operate, repair and maintain in the city an
1009     12-28-10    electric distribution system and transmission lines,
                     including necessary poles, lines, fixtures and
                     appurtenances, for the furnishing of electric energy to
                     the city.
1102     2-22-11     Amending Ordinances 0314 and 0315 to increase the
                     residential electric franchise fee.
                     Implementing an electric franchise fee on Wright-Hennepin
1103     2-22-11     Cooperative Electric Association, its successors and
                     assigns for providing electric service within the city.
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota
                     Corporation, its successors and assigns, permission to
                     erect a gas distribution system for the purposes of
                     constructing, operating, repairing and maintaining in the
2002     10-9-20     city the necessary gas pipes, mains and appurtenances for
                     the transmission or distribution of gas to the city and
                     its inhabitants and others and transmitting gas into and
                     through the city and to use the public grounds and public
                     ways of the city for such purposes.
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota
                     Corporation, its successors and assigns, permission to
                     construct, operate, repair and maintain in the city an
                     electric distribution system and transmission lines,
2003     10-9-20     including necessary poles, lines, fixtures and
                     appurtenances, for the furnishing of electric energy to
                     the city, its inhabitants, and others, and to use the
                     public grounds and public ways of the city for such
                     purposes.
                    
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Renaming of the street commencing at Valley Lane and
49       6-8-82      running west to the west lot line of Lot 2, Block 2,
                     Edgewood Third Addition to Thielen Drive.
50       8-24-82     Renaming of the street designated as Service Road running
                     from Valley Lane to Ridge Drive as Welter Road.
68       12-27-88    Renaming of Fifth Street in the dedication of Zahler's
                     Third Addition to Iris Lane.
77       7-23-91     Renaming of Ashley Boulevard in the dedication of Zahler's
                     Fifth Addition to Fourth Street Southwest.
96       1-23-96     Renaming of Fourth Street SE in the plat of Dehmer's
                     Rambling Creek Estates Second Addition to Lincoln Drive.
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Zoning a part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest
93       8-29-95     Quarter of Section 13, Township 120, Range 24, Wright
                     County, as a C-1, Conservation District.
0310     3-11-03     Rezoning Lot 1, Block 1, Big Woods Elementary School from
                     R3 to R1.
0311     4-8-03      Rezoning Outlot B, Big Woods Elementary School from A-1 to
                     PUD with an underlying zoning of R-1.
                     Rezoning from AP to R-1 that part of the West Half of the
0402     1-13-04     Northwest Quarter of Section 7, Township 120 North, Range
                     23 West, Wright County, Minnesota.
0403     1-13-04     Lot 1, Block 2, Church of St. Michael, is hereby rezoned
                     from R-1 to PUD, with an R-4 underlying zoning.
1001     2-9-10      Section 4, Township 20 North, Range 23 West is hereby
                     rezoned from A-1 to A-2.
1002     4-13-10     Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 120, Range 24 is
                     hereby rezoned from A-1 to A-2.
                     All lots in the plat known as Cascades is hereby rezoned
1506     9-8-15      from R-1, Single-Family Residential to R-1 Single-Family
                     Residential PUD.
                     PIDs 114315001010, 114315001020, 114315001030,
                   114315001040, 114315001050, and 114315002010 are hereby
                     rezoned from Commercial PUD to Public-Institutional PUD.
1607     11-22-16    Rezoning PID 114-500-124403 is hereby rezoned from B-1,
                     General Business to I-1, Industrial.
                     All lots in the plat known as Tributary Crossing, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agriculture to R-1, Single Family
                     Residential PUD.
                     All lots in the plat known as Morgendal, as recorded in
                   Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agriculture to R-1, Single Family Residential PUD.
                     Lot 1, Block 1, and Outlot C in the plat known as
                   Cornerstone Village II, as recorded in Wright County,
                     Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from R-3, Multiple Family
                     Residential to R-3, Multiple Family Residential PUD.
                     Outlot D in the plat known as Cornerstone Village II, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned
                     from R-3, Multiple Family Residential to Public -
                     Institutional.
                     PIDS 114-500-144401,114-500-144402 & 114-500-144404 are
                   hereby rezoned from A-l, General Agricultural to R-1,
                     Single Family Residential.
                     All lots in the plat known as Rivers Edge, as recorded in
                   Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agriculture to R-1, Single Family Residential PUD.
                     All lots in the plat known as Tributary Crossing, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agriculture to R-1, Single Family
                     Residential PUD.
                     All lots in the plat known as The Woods of Larabee Hill,
1807     12-11-18    as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby
                     rezoned from R-3, Multiple Family Residential, to R-1,
                     Single Family Residential.
                     All lots in the plat known as Superior Storage are hereby
                   rezoned from P/I, Public Institutional, to I-1,
                     Industrial.
                   PID 114-347-001010 is hereby rezoned from R-1, Single
                     Family Residential, to B-3, Business/Office Park.
                     All lots and outlots in the plat known as Lakeshore
                   Preserve, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are
                     hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agriculture, to R-1,
                     Single Family Residential PUD.
                     All lots and outlots in the plat known as Creekside
                   Estates, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are
                     hereby rezoned from R-1, Single Family Residential, to R-
                     3, Multiple Family Residential PUD.
                     All lots and outlets in the plat known as Fieldstone
1905     12-10-19    Passage are hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agriculture
                     to R-1, Single-Family PUD.
                     All lots and Outlot A in the plat known as Vista Pointe
                   are hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agriculture to R-1,
                     Single-Family PUD.
                     Outlot B in the plat known as Vista Pointe is hereby
                   rezoned from A-1, General Agriculture to Public-
                     Institutional.
                     PIDs 114-039-003041, 114-039-003042, 114-039-003043, 114-
                   039-003044, 114-039-003045, 114-039-003046, and 114-039-
                     003040 are hereby rezoned from B-1, General Business to R-
                     3, Multiple Family.
                     All lots in the plat known as Mosby Barthel, as recorded
2006     12-22-20    in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agricultural to R-1, Single-Family Residential.
                     All lots in the plat known as Gray North, as recorded in
                   Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from R-2,
                     Single-Family Residential to RR, Rural Residential.
                     Lot 1, Block 1, in the plat known as Nimby, as recorded in
                   Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agricultural to I-1, Industrial.
                     Lot 1, Block 1 Outlot D, and Outlot E in the plat known as
                   St. Michael I94 Business Park, as recorded in Wright
                     County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1, General
                     Agriculture to I-1, Industrial.
                     Outlots A, B and C in the plat known as St. Michael I94
                   Business Park, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota,
                     are hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agricultural to B-1,
                     General Business.
                   PID 114-500-323301 is hereby rezoned from R-2, Single-
                     Family Residential to A-1, Agricultural.
                     Lot 1, Block 1, and Outlot A in the plat known as X3
                   Technology Center, as recorded in Wright County,
                     Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1, General
                     Agricultural to B-3, Business/Office Park.
                     Lot 1, Block 1 in the plat known as Alleluia Acres, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agricultural to R-1, Single-Family
                     Residential.
                     Lot 1, Block 1 in the plat known as Hillcrest Estates, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned
                     from B-1, General Business to R-4, High Density
                     Residential PUD.
                     Lot 2, Block 3, in the plat known as Crow River Industrial
                   Park, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby
                     rezoned from B-1, General Business to I-1, Industrial.
                     All lots in the plat known as Gray North, as recorded in
                   Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from R-1,
                     Single-Family to R-1a, Single-Family PUD.
                     All lots and Outlots A, B, C, E, F, G, H, I, K in the plat
                   known as Legacy Bay Farms, as recorded in Wright County,
                     Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1, General
                     Agricultural to R-1, Single-Family PUD.
                     Outlot O in the plat known as Legacy Bay Farms, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota is hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agricultural to P/I, Public
                     Institutional.
                     Lots 39-51, Block 2; Blocks 4-10; Outlots B, C, D, E, F
2103     12-14-21    and G in the plat known as Foxtail Meadows, as recorded in
                     Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agricultural to R-1a, Single Family Residential.
                     Blocks 1, 3 and 11-13, Lots 1-38, Block 2, and Outlots A
                     and H in the plat known as Foxtail Meadows, as recorded in
                   Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agricultural to R-3, Multiple Family Residential
                     PUD.
                     Lots 1-21, Block 1; Lots 1-41, Block 2; Lots 1-5, Block 3;
                     Lots 1-49, Block 4; and Outlot B in the plat known as
                   Lakeshore Park, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota,
                     are hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agricultural to R-1a,
                     Single Family PUD.
                     Lots 1-93, Block 5 in the plat known as Lakeshore Park, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agricultural to R-4, Multiple Family
                     Residential PUD.
                     All lots in the plat known as Wilhelm Hills, as recorded
                   in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from A-1,
                     General Agricultural to R-1a, Single Family PUD.
                     PIDs 114-126-003060, 114-126-003050, 114-151-001020, 114-
2307                151-001040 and 114-151-001010 are hereby rezoned from B-1,
                     General Business to I-1, Industrial.
                     All lots known in the plat as PCS Villas of St. Michael,
                   as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby
                     rezoned from A-1, General Agriculture to R-1a, Single
                     Family PUD.
                     Outlot A, in the plat known as PCS Villas of St. Michael,
                   as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agriculture to R-4, High Density
                     Residential.
                     Outlots B, C, D, E, F and G, in the plat known as Legacy
                   Bay Farms, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are
                     hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agricultural to R-1,
                     Single Family PUD.
                     PIDs 114-409-001020 and 114-409-001010, in the plat known
                   as Home Grown Addition, as recorded in Wright County,
                     Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from R-1, Single Family
                     Residential to B-2, Downtown Commercial.
                   PID 114-800-074400 is hereby rezoned from A-1, General
                     Agricultural to B-3, Business Office Park.
                   PID 114-800-31200 is hereby rezoned from A-1, General
                     Agricultural to RR, Rural Residential.
                     Lots 1-247 in the plat known as Riverview Preserve, as
2404     12-10-24    recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agricultural to R-1a, Single Family PUD.
                     Lots R1 - R67 in the plat known as Riverview Preserve, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agricultural to R-3, Multiple Family
                     Residential.
                     All Single Family lots in the plat known as Gonz Lake
                   West, as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, are hereby
                     rezoned from A-1, General Agricultural to R-1a, Single
                     Family Residential PUD.
                     Lots 1-86, Block 5 and Lots 1-47, Block 6 in the plat
                   known as Gonz Lake West, as recorded in Wright County,
                     Minnesota are hereby rezoned from A-1, General Agriculture
                     to R-3, Multiple Family Residential PUD.
                     Outlot B, in the plat known as Hillcrest Estates, as
                   recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned
                     from R-1 Single Family Residential to R-3, Multiple Family
                     Residential.
                     Outlot B, in the plat known as Creekside West, as recorded
                   in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned from R-1,
                     Single Family Residential to R-3, Multiple Family
                     Residential.
                     Lots 7 - 15, Block 1 and Lots 1 - 13, Block 2 in the plat
                   known as Larabee Meadows, as recorded in Wright County,
                     Minnesota, are hereby rezoned from R-3, Multiple Family
                     Residential to R-1, Single Family Residential.
                     Lot 3, Block 1 in the plat known as Hidden Lake Meadows,
                   as recorded in Wright County, Minnesota, is hereby rezoned
                     from A-1, General Agriculture to R-2, Single Family
                     Residential 2.
                   PIDs 114-800-083401 and 114-800-0834020 are hereby rezoned
                     from B-3, Business/Office Park to I-1, Industrial.
                    
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                   Code Section
10A.14                         96.01
                               35.01,
12.25                          35.05,
                               35.07
14.57 - 14.69                  110.38
15.99                          155.091,
                               155.096
16B.59 - 16B.75                151.01
16B.62, subd. 1                151.01
16B.59 - 16B.75                151.01
16B.65, subd. 1                151.01
16B.69                         151.05
16B.70                         151.01
18.44 - 18.61                  94.19
18.76 - 18.91                  91.36
18.77                          155.016
Chapter 28A                    116.02
35.71 subd. (3)                90.15
Chapter 40A                    155.042,
                               155.045
65B.48, subd. 5                72.03
84.81 et seq.                  72.01
84.87, subd. 1                 72.03
84.92, subd. 8                 72.02
84.92, subd. 9                 72.02
84.92, subd. 10                72.02
84.415                         155.054
84.922                         72.03
84.928, subd. 1                72.03
Chapter 84D                    91.36
88.16 - 88.22                  91.80
93.44 - 93.51                  155.053
103B.301 - 103B.335            155.065
103F                           155.054
103G                           155.053
103G.005, Subd. 14             155.054
103G.005, Subd. 15, 15a        155.016
103G.221 et seq.               155.052
103G.245                       155.054
Chapter 105                    155.053
105.485                        155.053
115.01                         155.054
115.01, subd. 22               152.03
115.01(8)                      51.01
115.01(14)                     51.31
115.07                         51.01
Chapter 115A                   97.01
116.07, Subd. 7a               155.065
Chapter 157                    116.02
Chapter 168                    72.01
168.011                        Ch. 73, Sch. I
Chapter 169                    70.01,
                               72.01
169.69                         70.14
169.693                        70.14
169.87                         70.25
169A.20                        72.04
173.13, Subd. 23               155.016
173.016, subd. 3               155.083
211B.045                       155.084
237.162                        93.29
237.163                        93.29
238.04                         112.15
244.052                        94.02
260.185                        130.01
273.13                         155.065
300.06                         93.23
303.06                         115.04
325J.04, subd. 2               115.13
326.02                         151.02
326.992                        151.03
326B.37                        151.04
Ch. 327                        155.061
Chapter 329                    96.03,
                               116.03
333.01                         115.04
Chapter 340A                   110.17,
                               110.30
340A.301                       155.016
340A.301, Subd. 6b             155.016
340A.301, Subd. 6d             155.016
340A.409                       110.32
340A.412, Subd. 1              110.32
340A.415                       110.20
340A.501                       110.37
340A.504                       110.19
Chapter 342                    117.01,
                               155.016
342.01, Subd. 14               117.04
342.13                         117.02
342.14                         155.063
344.02, Subd. 1(a-d)           155.016
Chapter 347 ( 347.50 - 347.65) 90.11
Chapter 349                    113.01
349.11 - 349.22                113.02,
                               113.05
349.166                        113.02,
                               113.05
364.03, subd. 2                115.06
364.03, subd. 3                115.06
Chapter 412                    31.01
412.221, Subd. 32              99.01,
                               155.065
412.231                        10.99
412.925                        155.076
Chapter 429                    154.043
429.081                        152.05
                               38.09,
429.101                        91.01,
                               91.02,
                               91.43
429.101(1)(d)                  50.06
444.075                        152.70,
                               152.78
                               154.012,
Chapter 462                    155.053,
                               155.054
462.351 - 462.363              155.012
462.351 - 462.364              33.04
462.354                        155.091
462.354, Subd. 2               155.096
462.358, Subd. 4b              154.051
462.357                        155.024,
                               155.096
462.357, Subd. 6(2)            155.054
462.358                        154.012,
                               154.055
462.358(2)(b)                  154.031
462.358, Subd. 2(b)            154.031
462.358(4)(b)                  150.01
462.3593                       155.024
462.3593, Subd. 9              155.024
462.361                        155.091
463.15 - 463.26                91.01
463.17                         91.20
508.47, Subd. 4                154.051
514.67                         38.09,
                               91.01
609.02(3), (4)(a)              10.99
609.034                        10.99
609.52(1)                      71.02
609.75                         113.02
609.755                        113.02
609.76                         113.02
617.241                        155.063 ,
                               155.065
                               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. Number Date Code Section
Ord. Number Date     Code Section
1           3-24-50  130.99
                     110.01,
2           3-24-50  110.03,
                     110.15,
                     110.16
                     70.10,
4           3-24-50  71.01,
                     93.01
8           11-3-53  30.01
10          4-2-56   50.16,
                     50.99
                     50.02—
11          4-3-56   50.05,
                     50.17
12          10-2-56  T.S.O. II
13          5-3-60   70.01,
                     70.99
15          8-2-60   36.01
                     32.01,
                     32.03,
                     32.04,
                     32.06,
19          12-16-68 32.07,
                     32.08,
                     32.20—
                     32.23,
                     32.50—
                     32.54
26          12-11-73 31.01
24          7-9-74   36.01,
                     36.02
28          3-9-76   T.S.O. II
30          7-27-76  Ch. 73, Sch. I
33          6-14-77  50.15,
                     50.99
35          4-11-78  32.35—
                     32.38
44          6-26-79  94.01
43          7-14-81  111.01
                     92.01—
48          5-11-82  92.03,
                     92.98,
                     92.99
49          6-8-82   T.S.O. III
50          8-24-82  T.S.O. III
                     112.01,
                     112.10 -
                     112.20,
                     112.30—
                     112.38,
51          4-12-83  112.50,
                     112.51,
                     112.61—
                     112.65,
                     112.98,
                     112.99
54          9-13-83  112.32
58          9-12-84  30.01
                     51.01,
59          5-14-85  51.75,
                     51.76,
                     51.99
61          2-24-87  T.S.O. II
62          12-8-87  30.01
                     70.11,
63          5-24-88  70.12,
                     70.99
                     32.02,
66          6-28-88  32.03,
                     32.05
68          12-27-88 T.S.O. III
67          10-24-89 30.01
69          1-23-90  31.01,
                     34.01
75          9-12-90  150.01
76          6-11-91  91.16—
                     91.18
77          7-23-91  T.S.O. III
80          5-12-92  113.01—
                     113.05
82          9-8-92   50.01
85          6-22-93  T.S.O. I
88          6-28-94  T.S.O. I
87          7-12-94  71.03
                     51.01—
                     51.03,
                     51.15—
                     51.19,
                     51.30—
89          11-22-94 51.44,
                     51.55,
                     51.65—
                     51.67,
                     51.81,
                     51.98,
                     51.99
92          8-22-95  T.S.O. I
93          8-29-95  T.S.O. IV
94          9-12-95  70.13,
                     70.99
95          10-10-95 130.06
96          1-23-96  T.S.O. III
97          3-26-96  50.15,
                     50.99
99          9-3-96   130.03—
                     130.05
101         10-22-96 71.02,
                     71.99
102         12-3-96  71.02,
                     71.99
105         6-10-97  93.02
106         8-12-97  130.07,
                     130.99
114         1-13-98  33.01—
                     33.04
113         2-24-98  70.25—
                     70.31
117         10-27-98 130.03,
                     130.04
118         11-10-98 50.06
119         12-22-98 151.01
120         2-9-99   33.02
122         3-23-99  110.30—
                     110.38
123         3-23-99  70.27,
                     70.28
125         5-11-99  94.15—
                     94.22
                     152.08,
127         10-12-99 153.01 —
                     153.07,
                     153.99
                     152.01—
                     152.05,
                     152.15—
128         2-8-00   152.24,
                     152.40—
                     152.43,
                     152.99
134         7-11-00  95.01—
                     95.09
129         8-8-00   91.18
130         9-12-00  T.S.O. II
131         11-14-00 130.04
0201        2-12-02  151.01—
                     151.03
                     71.01,
                     71.03,
0204        8-13-02  71.04,
                     91.18,
                     153.06
0302        4-8-03   152.05
                     90.01—
0303        4-8-03   90.16,
                     90.99
0304        4-8-03   151.01
0305        4-8-03   91.18,
                     114.01
0308        7-22-03  110.18
0310        3-11-03  T.S.O. IV
0311        4-8-03   T.S.O. IV
0314        11-25-03 T.S.O. II
0315        11-25-03 T.S.O. II
0316        12-9-03  152.70—
                     152.78
0317        12-23-03 38.01—
                     38.10
0402        1-13-04  T.S.O. IV
0403        1-13-04  T.S.O. IV
0404        4-13-04  91.16
0405        5-11-04  91.37
                     91.36,
0406        7-13-04  91.37,
                     91.40—
                     91.42
0408        12-14-04 51.02,
                     51.20
0504        10-11-05 T.S.O. II
0505        12-27-05 97.99
0602        3-28-06  30.01
0603        5-23-06  31.01
                     110.19,
0604        6-13-06  110.20,
                     110.35,
                     110.37
0605        7-25-06  91.18
                     39.01,
                     39.02,
0701        1-9-07   91.70—
                     91.73,
                     91.80
                     151.01—
0702        6-26-07  151.03 ,
                     151.05
                     39.02,
0703        7-10-07  91.16,
                     91.18,
                     130.03
                     32.01—
                     32.08,
                     32.20—
                     32.23,
0704        10-23-07 32.35—
                     32.38,
                     32.50—
                     32.54,
                     32.99
0706        11-27-27 39.02
                     51.02,
                     91.18,
                     95.04,
                     110.20,
                     113.05,
                     115.01—
0802        3-11-08  115.22,
                     152.01,
                     152.015,
                     152.03,
                     152.16,
                     152.20,
                     152.21,
                     152.42
0804        5-27-08  91.40,
                     91.42
0805        6-24-08  91.37
0806        6-24-08  39.02
0807        10-14-08 39.02
0808        12-9-08  39.02
0901        2-10-09  39.02
                     71.02—
                     71.04,
0903        10-27-09 110.19 -
                     110.21,
                     153.03
0904        11-24-09 39.02
1001        2-9-10   T.S.O. IV
1002        4-13-10  T.S.O. IV
1004        7-13-10  71.03
                     96.01—
1005        9-28-10  96.11,
                     96.99
1006        9-28-10  39.02
1007        12-28-10 39.02
1008        12-28-10 32.60,
                     39.02
1009        12-28-10 T.S.O. II
1101        1-11-11  39.02
1102        2-22-11  T.S.O. II
1103        2-22-11  T.S.O. II
1104        7-7-11   151.04
                     98.01—
                     92.03,
1105        7-26-11  92.05—
                     98.08 ,
                     98.99
1106        8-9-11   92.04 ,
                     130.03
1108        11-22-11 39.02
1201        12-11-12 152.80 —
                     152.97
1202        12-18-12 39.02
1301        12-17-13 39.02
                     90.09 ,
                     91.72 ,
1401        1-28-14  152.74 ,
                     152.77 ,
                     153.04 ,
                     153.07  
1402        9-9-14   51.03
1404        11-10-14 130.08
1408        12-23-14 39.02
                     152.15,
1501        1-27-15  152.16,
                     152.18—
                     152.21
1505        8-25-15  31.01
1506        9-8-15    
                     T.S.O. IV
1508        12-22-15 39.02
                     50.07,
1603        3-8-16   51.16,
                     90.08
1607        11-22-16 T.S.O. IV
                     99.01—
1608        12-13-16 99.06,
                     99.99
1609        12-27-16 39.02
1701        2-14-17  39.02
1702        7-1-17   110.18,
                     110.31
                     91.18,
1703        5-23-17  92.02—
                     92.05
                     32.60,
1704        10-24-17 71.03,
                     91.18
                     96.01—
1706        12-26-17 96.12,
                     96.99
1707        12-26-17 39.02
1802        6-12-18  92.03
1805        9-25-18  39.02
1807        12-11-18 T.S.O. IV
1808        2-18-18  39.02
1902        5-14-19  91.18
                     39.02,
                     97.01—
1903        6-25-19  97.09,
                     116.01—
                     116.10,
                     116.99
1904        10-22-19 152.95
1905        12-10-19 91.72,
                     T.S.O. IV
1906        12-17-19 39.02
2001        7-14-20  90.09
2002        10-9-20  T.S.O. II
2003        10-9-20  T.S.O. II
                     72.01—
                     72.06,
                     72.99,
2004        11-10-20 91.18,
                     91.35—
                     91.38,
                     91.44
2005        12-22-20 39.02
                     39.02,
2006        12-22-20 70.14,
                     T.S.O. IV
2101        6-22-21  39.02
                     32.61—
2102        8-24-21  32.65,
                     51.03
                     50.07,
                     72.02,
                     72.03,
                     90.01,
                     90.02,
2103        12-14-21 90.05—
                     90.08,
                     90.11,
                     90.12,
                     90.14—
                     90.16,
                     T.S.O. IV
2104        12-28-21 39.02
2201        1-11-22  39.02
                     154.012—
                     154.016,
                     154.021—
                     154.029,
                     154.031, 154.040—
                     154.044,
                     154.051—
                     154.058,
                     155.012—
                     155.016,
                     155.021—
                     155.024,
2402        12-10-24 155.031—
                     155.035,
                     155.041—
                     155.045,
                     155.051—
                     155.054,
                     155.061—
                     155.067,
                     155.071—
                     155.078,
                     155.081—
                     155.087,
                     155.091—
                     155.099 
2403        12-10-24 T.S.O. IV
                     39.02,
2404        12-17-24 117.01—
                     117.04
                    
 
 
