CITY CODE
OF
TWO HARBORS,
MINNESOTA
(Current with legislation passed through 5-23-2022)
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO THE ENTIRE CITY CODE
INCLUDING PENALTY FOR VIOLATION
SECTION 1.01. APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall be applicable to all the chapters,
sections, subdivisions, paragraphs and provisions in the City Code, and the
City Code shall apply to all persons and property within the City of Two
Harbors, Minnesota, and within such adjacent area as may be stated in specific
provisions.
SEC. 1.02. DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the language or context clearly indicates that a different meaning is
intended, the following words, terms and phrases, for the purpose of every
chapter, section, subdivision, paragraph and provision of this City Code, shall
have the following meanings and inclusions:
      Subd. 1. "City" means the City of Two Harbors, Minnesota, acting by or
through its duly authorized representative.
      Subd. 2. "Council" and "City Council" mean the City Council of the City
of Two Harbors, Minnesota.
      Subd. 3. "City Administrator" means the person duly appointed by the City
Council and acting in such capacity.
      Subd. 4. "Person" includes all firms, partnerships, associations,
corporations and natural persons.
      Subd. 5. "Written" and "In Writing" mean any mode of representing words
and letters in the English language.
      Subd. 6. "Street" means the entire area dedicated to public use, or
contained in an easement or other conveyance or grant to the City, and shall
include, but not be limited to, roadways, boulevards, sidewalks, alleys, and
other public property between lateral property lines in which a roadway lies.
      Subd. 7. "Public Property" and "Public Place" mean any place, property or
premises dedicated to public use, owned by the City, occupied by the City as a
lessee, or occupied by the City as a street by reason of an easement,
including, but not limited to, streets, parks or parking lots so owned or
occupied.
      Subd. 8. "Private Property" means all property not included within the
definition of public property or public place.
      Subd. 9. "Intersection" means the area embraced within the prolongation
or connection of the lateral curb line or, if no curb, then the lateral
boundary lines of the roadways or streets which join one another at, or
approximately at, right angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon
different streets joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
      Subd. 10. "Roadway" means that portion of a street improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel. In the event a street includes two or
more separate roadways, the term "roadway" as used herein shall refer to any
such roadway separately but not to all such roadways collectively.
      Subd. 11. "Police Officer" and "Peace Officer" mean every officer,
including special police, authorized to direct or regulate traffic, keep the
peace, and appointed or employed for the purpose of law enforcement.
      Subd. 12. "Misdemeanor" means the crime for which a sentence of not more
than ninety (90) days or a fine of not more than $700.00, or both, may be
imposed.
      Subd. 13. "Petty Misdemeanor" means an offense, which does not constitute
a crime, and for which a sentence of a fine of not more than $200.00 may be
imposed.
      Subd. 14. "Conviction" means either of the following accepted and
recorded by the Court:
         A. plea of guilty; or,
         B. A verdict of guilty by a jury or a finding of guilty by the Court.
      Subd. 15. "Crime" means conduct which is prohibited by ordinance and for
which the actor may be sentenced to imprisonment or fine.
      Subd. 16. "Ordinance" means an ordinance duly adopted by the City Council
of Two Harbors, Minnesota.
      Subd. 17. "Ex-Officio Member" means a person who is not counted for the
purpose of determining a quorum, and has no right to vote, but shall have the
right and obligation (within his/her discretion) to speak to any question
coming before the board, commission or other deliberative body of which he/she
is such member.
      Subd. 18. "May" is permissive.
      Subd. 19. "Shall" is mandatory.
      Subd. 20. "Violate" includes failure to comply with.
      Subd. 21. "Premises" means any lot, piece or parcel of land within a
continuous boundary whether publicly or privately owned, occupied or possessed.
      Subd. 22. "Confidential Employee" means an employee, who as part of the
employee's job duties, has access to labor relations information as that term
is defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section 13, et seq., and actively
participates in the meeting and negotiating on behalf of the public employee.
SEC. 1.03. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR A PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a chapter, section, subdivision, paragraph or
provision of this City Code when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or
declared unlawful, or fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or
declared unlawful, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor, or as for a petty misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in
specific provisions herein, as set forth in the specific chapter in which the
section, subdivision, paragraph or provision violated appears. Upon conviction
for a crime, the actor may be convicted of either the crime charged if it is a
misdemeanor, or a petty misdemeanor as an included offense necessarily proved
if the misdemeanor charge were proved, together with additional costs levied
for the costs of prosecution.
SEC. 1.04. OTHERWISE UNLAWFUL.
   The City Code does not authorize an act or omission otherwise prohibited by
law.
SEC. 1.05. PRESERVATION OF EXISTING RIGHTS.
   The repeal of any ordinance or portion thereof by the adoption of the City
Code shall not affect or impair any act done or right vested or accrued, or any
proceeding, suit or prosecution had or commenced in any cause before such
repeal takes effect; but every such act done shall remain in full force and
effect to all intents and purposes as if such repeal had not taken place. No
offense committed and no liability, penalty or forfeiture, either civilly or
criminally incurred prior to the time when any such ordinance or part thereof
shall be repealed by the adoption of the City Code, shall be discharged or
affected by such repeal; but prosecutions and suits for such offenses,
liabilities, penalties or forfeitures shall be instituted and proceeded with in
all respects as if such prior ordinance or part thereof had not been repealed.
SEC. 1.06. SEVERABILITY.
   Every chapter, section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of the City Code
shall be, and is hereby declared, severable from every other such chapter,
section, subdivision, paragraph or provision and if any part or portion of any
of them shall be held invalid, it shall not affect or invalidate any other
chapter, section, subdivision, paragraph or provision.
SEC. 1.07. PAYMENT INTO CITY TREASURY OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fines, forfeitures and penalties recovered by the City for the violation
of any ordinance, charter, rule or regulation of the City shall be paid into
the City Treasury by the Court or officer thereof receiving such monies.
Payment shall be made in the manner, at the time, and in the proportion
provided by law.
SEC. 1.08. MEANINGS.
   As used in this City Code, words of either gender shall include both
genders, and the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include
the singular.
SEC. 1.09. CODE CITATION.
   This codification of the ordinances of the City of Two Harbors shall
henceforth be known as the City Code and cited thus: "CITY CODE, SEC. ______."
SEC. 1.10. PENALTIES FOR EACH OFFENSE.
   When a penalty or forfeiture is provided for the violation of a chapter,
section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this City Code, such penalty or
forfeiture shall be construed to be for each such violation.
SEC. 1.11. TITLES.
   A title or caption to or in any chapter, section, subdivision, subparagraph
or other provision of the City Code is for convenience only and shall not
limit, expand, or otherwise alter or control the content, wording or
interpretation thereof.
SEC. 1.12. REFERENCE TO A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   Wherever an appointed public official is referred to in the City Code, the
reference shall include such public official or his/her designee.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 1.13 through 1.99, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
CHAPTER 2
ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
SECTION 2.01. AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.  
   Pursuant to authority granted by Charter, this Chapter of the City Code is
enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of the
City by and through the Council.
SEC. 2.02. COUNCIL MEETINGS - TIME AND PLACE.  
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held in the Council Chambers on the
second and fourth Monday of each month at 6:00 o'clock p.m. In the event that
any regular or agenda meeting falls on a holiday, election day, or the precinct
caucus day set by State Statute, the meeting shall be held on the next business
day at the same time.
Source: Ordinance No. 95
Source: Ordinance No. 108
Effective Date: 04-05-2014
Effective Date: 04-10-2017
SEC. 2.03. SPECIAL MEETINGS.  
   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor, Council
President, or by any two other members of the Council by writing filed with the
City Administrator stating the time, place and purpose of the meeting. Notice
of a special meeting shall be given by the City Administrator to each member of
the Council by mailing a copy of such filing to all members who did not sign or
issue the call at least three (3) days prior to the time stated therein, or by
personal service at least seventy-two (72) hours prior to the projected time of
meeting. Special meetings may be held without prior written notice to the
Council if called when all Council members are present at the meeting or
consent thereto in writing. Any such consent shall be filed with the City
Administrator prior to the beginning of the meeting. Any special meeting
attended by all Council members shall be a valid meeting for the transaction of
any business that may come before the meeting. Meetings of the Council which
are adjourned from time-to-time shall not be subject to the foregoing notice
requirements; nor shall special meetings which, in the judgment of the Council,
require immediate consideration to meet an emergency require such notice, but
may be called by telephone communication or any other expeditious means. Notice
to the public and to news media shall be given as required by statute.
SEC. 2.04. COUNCIL PROCEDURE AT REGULAR MEETINGS.  
   The City Administrator shall prepare the following items: (l) an agenda for
the forthcoming meeting; (2) a copy of all minutes to be considered; and, (3)
copies of such other proposals, communications, or other documents as the City
Administrator deems necessary or proper for advance consideration by the
Council. The City Administrator shall forthwith cause to be mailed or delivered
to each member of the Council copies of all said documents. Roberts' Rules of
Order (Newly Revised) shall govern all Council meetings as to procedural
matters not set forth in the City Code.
SEC. 2.05. CITY SEAL.  
   All contracts to which the City is a party shall be sealed with the City
Seal. Said Seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Administrator and
affixed by him/her. The official City Seal shall be a circular disc having
engraved thereupon "CITY OF TWO HARBORS" and such other words, figures or
emblems as the Council may, by resolution, designate.
SEC. 2.06. RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the City
Administrator, any other elected or appointed City official or employee, or any
Board or Commission not having within its structure an appellate procedure,
such aggrieved person is entitled to a full hearing before the Council upon
serving a written request therefor upon the Mayor and City Administrator at
least five (5) days prior to any regular Council meeting. Such request shall
contain a general statement setting forth the administrative decision to be
challenged by the appellant. At such hearing the appellant may present any
evidence he/she deems pertinent to the appeal, but the City shall not be
required to keep a verbatim record of the proceedings. The Mayor, or other
officer presiding at the hearing, may, in the interest of justice or to comply
with time requirements and on his/her own motion or the motion of the
appellant, the City Administrator, or a member of the Council, adjourn the
hearing to a more convenient time or place, but such time or place shall be
fixed and determined before adjournment so as to avoid the necessity for formal
notice of reconvening. The Council shall issue a formal determination within 30
days of completion of such hearing and/or submission of written arguments.
SEC. 2.07. FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.
   The Mayor, City Administrator and Financial Director are hereby authorized
to request a depository of City funds to honor an order for payment when such
check bears a facsimile of his/her signature, and to charge the same to the
account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn, as effectively as though
it were his/her manually written signature. Such authority is granted only for
the purpose of permitting such officers an economy of time and effort.
SEC. 2.08. ACCOUNTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS.
      Subd. 1. Generally. Except as to an annual salary, fees of jurors or
witnesses fixed by law, or wages or salaries of employees which have been fixed
on an hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis by the Council and which by law
are authorized to be paid on a payroll basis, any account, claim or demand
against the City which can be itemized in the ordinary course of business, the
Council shall not audit or allow the claim until the person claiming payment,
or his/her agent, reduces it to writing, in items, and signs a declaration to
the effect that such account, claim or demand is just and correct and that no
part of it has been paid.
      Subd. 2. Discretionary Exception. The Council may, in its discretion,
allow a claim prepared by the City Administrator prior to such declaration by
the claimant if the declaration is made on the check by which the claim is
paid.
      Subd. 3. Form of Declaration. The declaration provided for in Subdivision
l hereof is sufficient in the following form: "I declare under the penalties of
law that this account, claim or demand is just and correct and that no part of
it has been paid. Signature of Claimant".
      Subd. 4. Form and Effect of Declaration on Check. The declaration
provided for in Subdivision 2 hereof shall be printed on the reverse side of
the check, above the space for endorsement thereof by the payee, as follows:
"The undersigned payee, in endorsing this check declares that the same is
received in payment of a just and correct claim against the City, and that no
part of it has heretofore been paid." When endorsed by the payee named in the
check, such statement shall operate and shall be deemed sufficient as the
required declaration of claim.
      Subd. 5. Signing Checks. All checks shall be signed by the Mayor, City
Administrator and Finance Director, except the Petty Cash Fund checks, which
may be signed by the City Administrator or his/her designated assistant.
SEC. 2.09. CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
      Subd. 1. Position Established. The position of City Administrator is
hereby established.
      Subd. 2. Appointment and Removal. The City Administrator shall be
appointed by the Council for an indefinite term. He/She shall not be removed
except by affirmative action taken by the Council twice at two regular meetings
held within sixty days. The action taken at the first such meeting shall be an
expression of intent to vote thereon at the second such regular meeting not to
be held sooner than ten days thereafter. If, at any time after he/she has
completed six months of continuous service, the Council takes such action, the
City Administrator may within thirty days after written notice of removal,
request a public hearing which the Council must grant and which must be started
within thirty days after the request. The Council shall affirm or rescind the
City Administrator's removal within 30 days of the hearing and/or submission or
written arguments.
      Subd. 3. Qualifications. The City Administrator shall be selected solely
on the basis of his/her executive and administrative qualifications with
special reference both to his/her experience, formal education, as well as his/
her knowledge of accepted practices pertaining to the duties of his/her office.
      Subd. 4. Duties. The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative
officer of the City and he/she shall be responsible to the Council for the
proper administration of all affairs of the City and to that end shall have the
power and shall be required to:
         A. Supervise the administration of all Departments, offices and
divisions of the City except as otherwise provided by law and carry out any
other responsibilities placed under his/her jurisdiction by this Chapter or by
subsequent Council action. He/She shall interview and screen all prospective
City employees as permitted by law and shall make recommendations for
terminating and suspending employees and may suspend any employee until the
next Council meeting when the Council shall affirm, modify or rescind the
suspension.
         B. Develop and issue all administrative rules, regulations and
procedures necessary to insure the proper functioning of all departments and
offices under his/her jurisdiction as permitted by law and Council approval.
         C. Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council and keep the
Council advised of the financial condition of the City and make such
recommendations as he/she may from time to time determine desirable and
necessary.
         D. Attend and participate in discussions at all meetings of the
Council and other official bodies as directed by the Council. The City
Administrator shall also represent the City at all official or semi-official
functions as may be directed by the Council and not in conflict with the
prerogatives of the Mayor. He/She shall be entitled to notice of all regular
and special meetings of the Council.
         E. See that all laws and provisions of the City Code are duly
enforced.
         F. Make or let purchases and contracts or contract change orders when
the amount thereof does not exceed $2,000.00 and to receive estimates,
quotations, sealed bids, purchases or contracts in excess of $2,000.00 and
present them to the Council for official action.
         G. Recommend from time to time the adoption of such measures as he/she
may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety and welfare of the
community or for the improvement of the administration.
         H. Perform such other duties as may be required by the Council and
consistent with Minnesota Statutes and the City Code.
      Subd. 5. Bond Required. The City Administrator shall furnish a surety
bond to be approved by the Council, said bond to be conditioned on the faithful
performance of his/her duties. The premium of the bond shall be paid by the
City.
      Subd. 6. Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive such
compensation as the Council shall fix from time to time by ordinance or
resolution.
      Subd. 7. City Clerk. The City Administrator shall also serve as the City
Clerk.
SEC. 2.10. FINANCE DIRECTOR.
      Subd. 1. Position Created and Duties. The position of Finance Director is
hereby created. It is the duty of the Finance Director to maintain complete and
accurate records as to all financial matters of the City. He/She shall be
responsible for assisting in drafting the annual budget and preparing such
budgetary and financial reports as the Council or City Administrator may from
time to time require. The Finance Director is custodian of all City funds and
responsible for investment and management thereof.
      Subd. 2. Delegation of Duties. The Finance Director shall also serve as
the City Treasurer.
      Subd. 3. Bond. The Finance Director shall furnish a fidelity bond
conditioned on the faithful exercise of his or her duties. In lieu of such
individual bond the Council may provide for a blanket bond, furnished by a
surety company authorized to transact business in the State of Minnesota, and
covering the position and duties of the Finance Director. Premiums on either of
such bonds shall be paid from City funds.
SEC. 2.11. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
      Subd. 1. Statute Adopted. The "Minnesota Emergency Management Act of
1996", Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 12, insofar as it relates to cities, is
hereby adopted by reference as part of this Section, as fully as if set forth
explicitly herein.
      Subd. 2. Establishment of an Emergency Management Agency. There is hereby
created within the City government an Emergency Management Agency, of which the
Mayor shall serve as the Director. The Director shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of said
Emergency Management Agency, subject to the overall direction and control of
the Council.
      Subd. 3. Emergency Preparedness Plan. The Council may, by resolution,
adopt, from time-to-time amend, or repeal an emergency preparedness plan for
the City.
SEC. 2.12. ISSUANCE OF CITATIONS.
      Subd. 1. Except as otherwise provided by statute, only a peace officer or
part-time peace officer may:
         A. Ask a person receiving a citation to give a written promise to
appear in court; or
         B. Take a person into custody as permitted by statute.
      Subd. 2. The following City employees may issue citations in lieu of
arrest or continued detention for violations of the City Code. Areas of
jurisdiction will be contained in City policy as set forth in resolution form
by the Council.
         A. Peace Officers and Part-time Peace Officers.
         B. Reserve Officers.
         C. Building Official
         D. Zoning Administrator.
         E. Designated Animal Control Officer.
         F. City Administrator.
         G. Deputy Administrator.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
SEC. 2.13. SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.  
   Salaries of the Mayor and Council are hereby fixed as follows:
      Subd. 1. The annual salary of the Mayor shall be $4,900.00, payable in
equal installments of $204.17 semi-monthly.
      Subd. 2. The annual salary of each Council member shall be $4,500.00,
payable in equal installments of $187.50 semi-monthly.
      Subd. 3. Compensation for the Council member acting as President of the
City Council at a regularly scheduled Council meeting shall be $100.00 per
month in addition to the annual salary of the Council member. Provided,
however, that if the President of the City Council is the Mayor then this
additional amount shall not be paid.
      Subd. 4. For purposes of this Section, the salary for a Council member is
compensation for attending regularly scheduled meetings of the Council
including agenda meetings and fulfilling the duties and obligations of the
office as prescribed by the City Charter and statutes of the State of
Minnesota. Compensation for additional meetings shall be $60.00 per meeting.
The additional meetings include duly called special meetings of the Council,
meetings of the Board of Equalization, budget deliberations, labor relations,
personnel issues and meetings of the following Council committees: Public
Works, Finance, Personnel, Utilities, Litigation and Public Affairs. Prior
authorization by the Council is required for compensation at other meetings
which may be determined by the Council to further the interests of the City.
      Subd. 5. The requirements of prior authorizations herein established
shall include the requirement that no member of the Council may vote on his or
her requests, that each request shall be voted on separately, and that votes
thereon shall be by roll call and there shall be required an affirmative vote
of four Council members on any such request.
      Subd. 6. The maximum number of meetings for which compensation may be
paid under Subd. 4 in any calendar year beginning with the 2015 calendar year
shall be limited to sixty-two (62) meetings per person. A person may request
compensation for more than sixty-two (62) meetings by submitting a request to
the City Administrator and Council President. Compensation for meetings in
excess of sixty-two (62) for any person must be approved by the City Council
and will be made only if payment for less than four hundred thirty-four (434)
meetings in total for all persons requesting compensation for meetings have or
are projected to be made for the year in which a person is requesting payment
for more than sixty-two (62) meetings. Approval for meetings in excess of
sixty-two (62) in any year will be made in advance by the City Council when
possible or may be approved after the fact before any year end. Once
compensation has been paid for four hundred thirty-four (434) meetings in total
in any calendar year, no further compensation for meetings for that calendar
year may be made.
      Subd. 7. The Mayor or member of the Council may be excused from
attendance at up to four regularly scheduled Council meetings annually for
reasons of illness or absence from the community. For additional absences from
regularly scheduled Council meetings, the compensation shall be reduced by
$60.00 per occurrence.
      Subd. 8. Nothing contained herein shall be construed as a limitation or
prohibition upon the reimbursement of actual expenses incurred by the Mayor,
members of the Council or other elected or appointed City officials or agents.
      Subd. 9. The salaries of the Mayor and Council members provided for in
this Section, which are deemed reasonable and may be changed by an amending
ordinance, shall only take effect after the next regular City election
Source: Ordinance No. 357      Source: Ordinance No. 20      Source: Ordinance
No. 47
Effective Date: 01-01-1999      Effective Date: 10-27-2004   Effective Date:
11-26-2008
Source: Ordinance No. 73         Source: Ordinance No. 100
Effective Date: 04-12-2012      Effective Date: 11-27-2014
SEC. 2.14. WORKER'S COMPENSATION.  
   The City shall not enter into any contract for doing public work before
receiving from all other contracting parties acceptable evidence of compliance
with the worker's compensation insurance coverage requirement of Minnesota
Statutes.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 2.15 through 2.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 2.20. DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY.
      Subd. 1. Appointment. All Department Heads and employees shall be
appointed by the Council. All appointments shall be for an indeterminate term.
      Subd. 2. Compensation. All wage and salary scales shall be fixed and
determined by the Council.
      Subd. 3. Table of Organization and Lines of Responsibility. The Council
may by resolution adopt, amend, and from time to time revise, a Table of
Organization and define lines of responsibility and authority for the efficient
governmental organization of the City.
      Subd. 4. Budgetary Information. The Heads of all Departments shall, prior
to July 1 in each year, file with the City Administrator the projected
financial needs of his/her Department for the ensuing year. Such projections
shall include information as to maintenance and operation of equipment, new
equipment, personnel, and such other information as may be requested by the
City.
SEC. 2.21. POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   A Police Department is hereby established. The Head of this Department shall
be known as the Chief of Police, and the number of additional members and
employees of the Police Department shall be determined by the Council which may
be changed from time-to-time. The Mayor shall have, without the approval of the
Council, authority to appoint additional members of the Police Department for
temporary duty when in his/her judgment an emergency exists for the
preservation of life or property. The Chief of Police and all members of the
Police Department shall have the powers and authority of police officers
generally and shall perform such duties as are required of them by the Council
or by law. The Chief of Police shall have overall supervision and management of
the Police Department and custody of all property used and maintained for the
purposes of said Department. The Chief of Police shall make and file such
reports as may be required by the Council.
SEC. 2.22. VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   A Volunteer Fire Department is hereby established. The size and composition
(including, but not limited to, a determination as to permanent and volunteer
members) shall be established by resolution of the Council, which may be
changed from time-to-time by a subsequent resolution. The Council shall also
establish, and from time to time revise and amend, written rules and
regulations of the Department including, but not limited to, its internal
structural organization and compensation, a copy of which shall be distributed
to each of its members whenever established, revised or amended. The Chief of
the Volunteer Fire Department shall have general supervision of the Volunteer
Fire Department and custody of all property used and maintained for the
purposes of said Department. He/She shall see that the same are kept in proper
order and that all rules and regulations and all provisions of the laws of the
State and ordinances of the City relative to a Volunteer Fire Department and to
prevention and extinguishment of fires are duly observed. He/She shall
supervise the preservation of all property endangered by fire and shall control
and direct all persons engaged in preserving such property. In case of the
absence or disability of the Chief for any cause, the Assistant Chief shall
exercise all powers, perform all the duties and be subject to all the
responsibilities of the Chief. The Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department shall
make and file such reports as may be requested by the Council.
SEC. 2.23. PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.  
   A Public Works Department is hereby established. The Head of such Department
shall be the Director of Public Works, assisted by such Superintendents as may
be appropriate. The City storm sewer system, streets, parks, cemetery and
governmental buildings shall be under the direct supervision of the Director
and he/she shall be responsible for and have custody of all property of such
Department. The Director shall make and file such other reports as may be
requested by the Council.
SEC. 2.24. PUBLIC ENTERPRISE DEPARTMENT.  
   A Public Enterprise Department is hereby established. The Head of such
Department shall be the Director of Public Enterprises. The Council shall
appoint enterprise Superintendents as may be appropriate. The City water plant
and distribution system, sanitary sewer system and waste water treatment
facility, gas distribution system, and electrical plant and distribution
systems shall be under the direct supervision of the Director and he/she shall
be responsible for and have custody of all property of such Department. The
Director shall make and file such other reports as may be requested by the
Council.
SEC. 2.25. BUILDING INSPECTION DEPARTMENT.  
   A Building Inspection Department is hereby established. The Head of the
Building Inspection Department shall be the Building Official (referred to in
the State Building Code as the "Administrative Authority"), together with such
assistants and staff members as may be authorized from time to time by the
Council. It shall be the duty and power of the Building Official to carry out
the provisions of the State Building Code and the provisions of the City Code
relating to construction. The Building Official shall submit a periodic report
to the Council covering the work of his/her Department for intervals required
by the Council.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 2.26 through 2.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 2.40. BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND COMMITTEES.  
   Unless otherwise stated herein, all Boards, Commissions, and Committees of
Two Harbors must meet the following requirements.
      Subd. 1. Membership. The Board, Commission, or Committee (hereinafter
collectively referred to as "Commission") shall consist of seven (7) members,
except as provided herein. The members must live within the 55616 zip code
area. Members shall be appointed by the Council following nomination by the
Mayor, provided that at least one (1) City Councilor shall be a member of each
Commission and provided further that additional City Councilors may be members
of a Commission but no more than the total membership amount allowed under this
Section. All City Councilor members of a Commission shall have the right to
vote. The City Councilor members shall be appointed by the President of the
City Council at the City Council meeting held on the second Monday of January
of each year.
      The Chairperson and the Secretary shall be chosen from and by the Board,
Commission, or Committee membership annually to serve for one year. Provided,
however, that no Chairperson shall be elected who has not completed at least
one year as a member of the Board, Commission, or Committee.
      Members, other than City Council members, may be removed by a majority
vote of the Council. The Council may remove any member, other than City Council
members, for good cause. For purposes of this section, "good cause" shall
include failure to regularly attend meetings of the Commission or the failure
to live in the 55616 zip code area.
      Subd. 2. Terms. Members of all Commissions, except City Council members,
shall be appointed in accordance with the terms of this Ordinance. Terms will
expire at 11:59 p.m. on the second Monday of March of each year. The terms of
the members as established by Ordinance No. 24, Second Series, adopted May 23,
2005, shall continue. Upon the expiration of the present terms, all members
other than the City Councilor member shall be appointed for a three (3) year
term.
      When a member serves two (2) consecutive three (3) year terms, notice of
the availability of the position held by such member shall be publicly
advertised. If a suitable replacement member applies for such position, then
the serving member shall not be re-appointed. If no suitable replacement member
applies for such position then the serving member may be re-appointed.
      Any vacancy occurring in the membership of any Commission, other than a
City Council member, shall be filled, for the unexpired term only, by the City
Council upon the nomination of the Mayor. The terms of the City Councilor shall
be until his/her successor is appointed or his/her term as City Councilor
expires, whichever is shorter. Every member shall, before assuming office, take
an oath that he/she will faithfully discharge the duties of his/her office.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. Except as specifically provided herein, members of
Commissions shall serve without pay. City Councilor members of a Commission
shall receive compensation for attending meetings in accordance with and
subject to the provisions of Section 2.13, subd. 4 of the Two Harbors City
Code. Mileage and expenses shall be reimbursed according to existing city
policy.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. The City Attorney shall act as the legal adviser
to each Commission.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. All meetings of any Commission shall be open to the
public, unless any meeting or portion thereof may be closed pursuant to the
Minnesota Open Meeting Law, as it may be amended from time to time. The
Commission shall make available to the public attending the meeting any
materials required by law.
      The Commission shall make and keep minutes of its meetings identifying
the time, location, and members present. The Commission shall make and keep
records of any votes or decisions or any other official actions.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. No action of the Commission shall be taken without a
quorum. For purposes of this section, "quorum" shall mean a majority of the
members of the Commission.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. The Commission shall adopt rules and
procedures for the conduct of business, and amend such rules and procedures, as
it becomes necessary.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Commission shall be limited to its
stated purpose. The Commission shall submit an annual report to the City
Council in December, detailing the Commission's performance. In exercising its
authority, the Commission shall proceed in accordance with any other Two
Harbors Ordinance, State or Federal Law.
      Subd. 9. Application. This section applies to all of the Commissions
except as modified by the Section of this Code applicable to such Commission.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
Source: Ordinance No. 90
Effective Date: 07-24-2013
SEC. 2.41. AIRPORT COMMISSION.
      Subd. 1. Membership. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Airport Commission shall advise the
City Council in all matters dealing with the airport and its operation. It
shall recommend an annual operating budget, report on the adequacy of
facilities, recommend capital improvements, and serve as a forum for others to
express their views on subject relating to the airport and its operations.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
SEC. 2.42. CABLE TELEVISION COMMISSION.
      Subd. 1. Membership. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. Monitor the performance of the cable
television franchisee in executing the provisions of a franchise; serve in an
advisory capacity to the City Council on matters relating to cable television;
review proposals submitted by potential franchisees; negotiate with a
franchisee; investigate complaints or concerns; implement the public policy
with respect to any cable channels designated as public access channels.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
SEC. 2.43. EDNA G. COMMISSION.
      Subd. 1. Membership. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. See Section
2.40.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
SEC. 2.44. JOINT BOARD OF RECREATION.
      Subd. 1. Membership. See Section
2.40, except the Board shall consist of not less than seven (7) members and not
more than nine (9) members. The Board shall include as an ex-officio member a
person as may be designated by the Lake County Board of Commissioners from time
to time. No ex-officio member shall have the right to vote.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. Minnesota Statute Sections 471.15 to
471.19, as it may be amended from time to time shall govern the operation and
activities of the Joint Board of Recreation.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Board shall have the power to
operate a program of public recreation and coordinate all the activities
necessary for any public recreational program. It shall have the power to
authorize operational expenditures independently within a budget established by
the City Council. It shall advise the Council on recreation matters, but it
shall have no authority to acquire land in its own name.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
Source: Ordinance No. 85
Effective Date: 04-08-2013
SEC. 2.45. LIBRARY BOARD.
      Subd. 1. Membership. See Section
2.40, except the Board shall consist of nine (9) members. The Board shall also
include one (1) person appointed by the Lake County Board of Commissioners.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. The provisions of Two Harbors Home
Charter, 1983, Chapter XIII shall be applicable to the Library Board.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Board shall continue to have
authority to administer its activities with all of the powers and duties set
forth in the Charter section cited herein.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
SEC. 2.46. PLANNING COMMISSION.
      Subd. 1. Membership. The Planning Commission shall consist of nine (9)
members. The City Engineer, the City Building Official and the City Public
Works Director shall serve as ex-officio members without the right to vote.
Otherwise the membership rules set forth in Section
2.40 shall apply.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40
      Subd. 3. Compensation. All members, except ex-officio members and City
Councilor members, shall be compensated for their services at the rate of
$25.00 per meeting for up to two (2) meetings per month. The amount of such
compensation and the maximum number of meetings per month for which
compensation shall be paid may be changed from time to time as may be necessary
by resolution duly adopted by the Council.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. The provisions of City of Two Harbors
Code, Chapters
11 and
12 shall be applicable to the Planning Commission.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Commission shall continue to have
authority to administer its activities with all of the powers and duties
applicable to it under all applicable laws, rules, codes and regulations. The
Commission shall also have jurisdiction with regard to the planning for and
legal establishment of new trails within the City of Two Harbors.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
Source: Ordinance No. 90
Effective Date: 07-24-2013
SEC. 2.47. TOURISM BUREAU (TWO HARBORS AREA VISITORS BUREAU).
      Subd. 1. Membership. The Tourism Bureau shall consist of one (1)
representative from each lodging/camping facility within the City of Two
Harbors that collects a lodging tax and pays such tax to the City of Two
Harbors.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40, but subject to the provisions of Subd. 1 of this Section
2.47.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40. The Tourism Bureau shall meet at least once each calendar quarter.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. The Tourism Bureau shall insure that the
City meets the requirements of Minnesota Statutes Section 469.190, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Tourism Bureau shall have the
authority to create an advertising/marketing plan and direct the lodging tax
funds in accordance and compliance with the Minnesota State Statute.
   The Tourism Bureau shall review and act on request from area entities that
enhance or expand on the Tourism Bureau's marketing plan.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
SEC. 2.48. TREE AND SONJU TRAIL COMMISSION.
      Subd. 1. Membership. The Trees and Trails Commission shall consist of
seven (7) members.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Tree and Trail Commission shall
advise the Council in all matters dealing with trees, propagation of plantings,
and established trails. It shall recommend an annual operating budget to
include commission expenses and those expenditures necessary for the
construction, maintenance, removal and propagation of trees, plantings, and
trails. It shall also develop and issue an annual report, seek assistance and
participation from individuals and agencies with appropriate skill and
knowledge, serve as a forum for others to express their views on subjects
relating to trees, propagation of plantings, trails, and such other duties as
the Council may establish by resolution.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006
Source: Ordinance No. 50      Source: Ordinance No. 102
Effective Date: 05-15-2009   Effective Date: 03-11-2015
(Section 2.49 reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 2.50. STAR CITY COMMISSION.  
   The Star City Commission shall be discontinued.
Source: Ordinance No. 24      Source: Ordinance No. 38      Source: Ordinance
No. 50
Effective Date: 07-08-2005   Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-
15-2009
SEC. 2.51. TWO HARBORS HOUSING AND REDEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
      Subd. 1. Membership. The provisions of Section
2.40 shall apply to membership of the Two Harbors Housing and Redevelopment
Authority, provided, however, that the Mayor of the City of Two Harbors may in
his/her sole discretion at anytime appoint up to five (5) City Councilors to
serve as the members of the Two Harbors Housing and Redevelopment Authority.
Any City Councilor appointed shall serve a two (2) year term or until his/her
term as Councilor expires, whichever is shorter.
      Subd. 2. Terms. See Section
2.40 and Subdivision 7 of this Section.
      Subd. 3. Compensation. See Section
2.40 and Subdivision 7 of this Section.
      Subd. 4. Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40 and Subdivision 7 of this Section.
      Subd. 5. Meetings. See Section
2.40 and Subdivision 7 of this Section.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40 and Subdivision 7 of this Section.
      Subd. 7. Rules and Procedures. The Two Harbors Housing and Redevelopment
Authority shall act pursuant to its Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws and
all other applicable laws, rules, codes and regulations.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. The Two Harbors Housing and
Redevelopment Authority shall perform the functions described in the Articles
of Incorporation and By-Laws.
Source: City Code         Source: Ordinance No. 24
Effective Date: 06-01-2000   Effective Date: 07-08-2005
Source: Ordinance 38      Source: Ordinance 50
Effective Date: 09-13-2006   Effective Date: 05-15-2009
SEC. 2.52. PUBLIC ARTS COMMISSION.
      Subd. 1.  Membership. See Section
2.40, except the Commission shall consist of nine (9) members and the Mayor
shall serve as a voting member of the Commission instead of a City Councilor.
      Subd. 2.  Terms. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 3.  Compensation. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 4.  Legal Counsel. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 5.  Meetings. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 6. Quorum. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 7.  Rules and Procedures. See Section
2.40.
      Subd. 8. Jurisdiction and Duties. In addition to the items set forth in
Subd. 8 of Section
2.40, the Commission shall promote the arts and beautification of the City by
establishing physical works of art in public places and improving and
maintaining visual and cultural aspects of the City. The Commission shall make
recommendations to the City Council with respect to the expenditure of funds
budgeted by the City Council to the Public Arts Fund.
Source: Ordinance No. 52
Effective Date: 02-25-2010
(Sections 2.53 through 2.59, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 2.60. DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES, UNCLAIMED PROPERTY AND EXCESS
PROPERTY.
      Subd. 1. Definitions.
         1. The term "abandoned motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle as defined
in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 168B.011, subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, that has remained for a period of more than forty-eight (48)
hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component parts, or has
remained for a period of more than forty-eight (48) hours on private property
without the consent of the person in control of such property, or in an
inoperable condition such that it has no substantial potential further use
consistent with its usual function unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or
storage building. It shall also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by
its owner to and accepted by the City. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined
in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 168, shall not be considered an abandoned motor
vehicle within the meaning of this Section. Vehicles on the premises of
junkyards or automobile graveyards, which are licensed and maintained in
accordance with the City Code, shall not be considered abandoned motor vehicles
within the meaning of this Section.
         2. The term "junk vehicle" means a motor vehicle as defined in
Minnesota Statutes Section 168B.011, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, that is three (3) years old or older; is extremely damaged, with the
damage including such things as broken or missing wheels, motor, drive train,
or transmission, is apparently inoperable; does not have a valid, current
registration plate; and has an approximate fair market value equal only to the
approximate value of the scrap in it.
         3. The term "unauthorized vehicle" means a vehicle that is subject to
removal and impoundment pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 168B.011, subd.
4, as it may be amended from time to time, but is not a junk vehicle or
abandoned vehicle.
         4. The term "vital component parts" means those parts of a motor
vehicle that are essential to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle,
including, but not limited to, the motor, drive train and wheels.
         5. The term "public auction" shall mean an auction conducted at a
place within the City in which bids are placed in person and awarded to the
highest bidder.
         6. The term "public electronic auction" shall mean an auction
conducted over the World Wide Web in which bids are placed electronically in an
open and interactive environment and awarded to the highest bidder.
      Subd. 2. Disposal of Abandoned Motor Vehicles.
         A. Custody. The City may take into custody and impound any abandoned
or junk motor vehicle, or any unauthorized vehicle as provided by statute.
         B. Sale; Waiting Periods.
            1. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale fifteen
(15) days after notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be a junk
vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current registration plate and still
be eligible for disposal or sale; or an abandoned motor vehicle.
            2. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale forty-five
(45) days after notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be an
unauthorized vehicle.
         C. Notice.
            1. When an impounded vehicle is taken into custody, the City or
impound lot operator shall give notice of the taking within five (5) days. The
notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, make, model
and serial number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if such information can be
reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is being held, shall
inform the owner and any lien holders of their right to reclaim the vehicle
under Subparagraph E of this Subdivision, and shall state that failure of the
owner or lien holder to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and
contents within the appropriate time allowed under statute shall be deemed a
waiver by them of all rights, title and interest in the vehicle and a consent
to the transfer of title to and disposal or sale of the vehicle and contents
pursuant to Subparagraph F of this Subdivision.
            2. The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if
any, of the impounded motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable lien
holders of record. This information shall be made available to impound lot
operators for notification purposes. If it is impossible to determine with
reasonable certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all
lien holders, the notice shall be published once in the official newspaper
where the motor vehicle was towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be
grouped together for convenience and economy. If an unauthorized vehicle
remains unclaimed after thirty (30) days from the date the notice was sent, a
second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lien holders or record.
         D. Right to Reclaim.
            1. The owner or any lien holder of any impounded motor vehicle
shall have the right to reclaim such vehicle from the City or impound lot upon
payment of all towing and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle
into custody within fifteen (15) or forty-five (45) days as applicable under
this Section after the date of the notice required by this Section.
            2. Nothing in this Subdivision shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garage keeper under the laws of this State, or the right of the lien
holder to foreclose. For the purposes of this Subparagraph E, "garage keeper"
is an operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor
vehicle storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing,
repair or maintenance of motor vehicles.
         E. Auction or Sale.
            1. An abandoned or unauthorized motor vehicle and contents taken
into custody by the City or any impound lot and not reclaimed under
Subparagraph E of this Subdivision may be disposed of or sold at auction or
sale when eligible pursuant to Subparagraph E.
   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the Registrar
of Motor Vehicles, which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the vehicle.
The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle and
receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before such a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
            2. From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned or unauthorized
motor vehicle by the City or public impound lot, the City shall reimburse
itself for the cost of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all
administrative, notice and publication costs incurred pursuant to this
Subdivision. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the
owner of the vehicle or entitled lien holder for ninety (90) days and then
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the City.
            3. The operator of a nonpublic impound lot may retain any proceeds
from a sale derived from a sale conducted under the authority of this Section.
The operator may retain all proceeds from the sale of any personal belongings
and contents in the vehicle that were not claimed by the owner or the owner's
agent before the sale; except that any suspected contraband or other items that
likely would be subject to forfeiture in a criminal trial must be turned over
to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
         F. Operator's Deficiency Claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has
a deficiency claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the
reasonable costs of services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of
the vehicle minus the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage
costs may not exceed the cost of twenty-five (25) days' storage for an
abandoned or junk vehicle and fifty-five (55) days' storage for a vehicle
determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.
         G. Disposal of Vehicles. Where no bid has been received for an
abandoned or junk motor vehicles, the City may dispose of it in accordance with
this Subdivision.
         H. Contracts and Disposal.
            1. The City may contact with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
            2. Where the City enters into a contract with a person duly
licensed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the
contract to determine whether it conforms to the Agency's plan for solid waste
disposal. A contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency. Where
a contract has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the City for the costs
incurred under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
            3. If the City utilizes its own equipment and personnel for
disposal of the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement
for the cost thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
      Subd. 3. Disposal of Unclaimed Property.
         A. Definition. The term "abandoned property" means tangible and
intangible property that has lawfully come into the possession of the City in
the course of municipal operations, remains unclaimed by the owner, and has
been in the possession of the City for at least sixty (60) days and has been
declared such by a resolution of the Council.
         B. Preliminary Notice. If the City Administrator knows the identity
and whereabouts of the owner, he/she shall serve written notice upon him/her at
least thirty (30) days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If
the City acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts
of whom are known by the City Administrator, notice shall also be served upon
him/her. Such notice shall describe the property and state that unless it is
claimed and proof of ownership, or entitlement to possession established, the
matter of declaring it abandoned property will be brought to the attention of
the Council after the expiration of thirty (30) days from the date of such
notice.
         C. Notice and Sale. Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain
property to be abandoned property, the City Administrator shall publish a
notice thereof describing the same, together with the names (if known) and
addresses (if known) of prior owners and holders thereof, and including a brief
description of such property. The text of such notice shall also state the
time, place and manner of sale of all such property, except cash and
negotiables. Such notice shall be published once in a legal newspaper at least
ten (10) days prior to the sale. Sale shall be made to the highest bidder at
public auction or public electronic auction or by a nonprofit organization with
a significant mission of community service in a private sale in the manner
authorized by statute.
         D. Funds and Claims Thereon. Expenses shall be paid from the proceeds
of the sale; the balance of the proceeds shall be paid into the General Fund of
the City if the property was disposed of by a public auction or public
electronic auction; or in the case of a private sale, to the nonprofit
organization authorized to conduct said sale. The former owner, if he/she makes
claim within six (6) months from the date of publication of the notice herein
provided, and upon application and satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid
the amount of cash or negotiables or, in the case of property sold, the amount
received therefor, less a pro rata share of the expenses of storage publication
of notice, and sale expenses, but without interest.
         E. Disposal of Property; Perishables. If any item of unclaimed
property in possession of the City appears to have a value of $5.00 or less, is
hazardous to store, or is perishable, the City Administrator or his or her
authorized representative may sell or otherwise dispose of the property in
whatever manner the Chief of Police determines reasonable and appropriate.
         F. Unclaimed Handguns. Unclaimed handguns in the possession of the
City shall be destroyed after sixty (60) days.
      Subd. 4. Disposal of Excess Property.
         A. Declaration of Surplus and Authorizing Sale of Property. The City
Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that certain
personal property (chattels) owned by the City is no longer needed for a
municipal purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council, said property
shall be declared surplus, the value estimated and the City Administrator
authorized to dispose of said property in the manner stated herein.
         B. Surplus Property With a Total Estimated Value of Less that $100.00.
The City Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value of less
than $100.00 through negotiated sale.
         C. Surplus Property With a Total Estimated Value Between $100.00 and
$500.00. The City Administrator shall offer for public auction or public
electronic auction, to the highest bidder, surplus property with a total
estimated value of from $100.00 to $500.00. Notice shall be given stating time
and place of sale and generally describing the property to be sold at least ten
(10) days prior to the date of sale either by publication once in the official
newspaper, or by posting in a conspicuous place in the City Hall at the City
Administrator's option.
         D. Surplus Property With a Total Estimated Value Over $500.00. The
City Administrator shall offer for public auction or public electronic auction,
to the highest bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value over
$500.00. Notice shall be given stating time and place of sale and generally
describing property to be sold at least ten (10) days prior to the date of sale
by publication once in the official newspaper.
         E. Authority. The City may sell its excess property through public
electronic auction pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 471.345, subd. 17,
as it may be amended from time to time.
         F. Receipts From Sale of Surplus Property. All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this Section shall be placed in the General Fund.
      Subd. 5. Persons Who May Not Purchase – Exception.
         A. No employee of the City who is a member of the administrative
staff, department head, a member of the Council, or an advisor serving the City
in a professional capacity may be a purchaser of property under this Section.
Other City employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in the
sale, if they are the highest responsible bidder, and if at least one (1)
week's published notice of sale is given.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under
this Section if such purchase is prohibited by the terms of this Section.
      Subd. 6. Forfeited Property.
         A. Forfeited Property. Any property coming into the possession and
ownership of the City by any applicable statute allowing or requiring the
forfeiture of such property to the City shall be held, managed and disposed of
in accordance with the State law, rule or regulation applicable to such
forfeited property.
   The proceeds from the disposition of any such forfeited property shall be
distributed in accordance with the State law, rule or regulation applicable to
such forfeited property.
Source: Ordinance 23
Effective Date: 06-08-2005
SEC. 2.61. CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS.
      Subd. 1. Purpose. The Council hereby adopts a policy which declares a
Code of Conduct and Ethics to be adhered to by all elected officials ("Elected
Officials") Board or Commission members ("Appointed Officials") and employees
("Employees") of the City. The purpose of this Code is to establish standards
for all such persons by setting forth actions which are incompatible with the
best interests of the City or in conflict with law. The term "Employees" shall
include all those individuals hired by the City including contract consultants
and the Fire Chief, Golf Course Superintendent and Golf Course Concessionaire.
      Subd. 2. Conflicts of Interest.
         A. It is unlawful for any Elected Official, Appointed Official or
Employee having the power or duty to perform an official act or action to be
directly or indirectly interested in any contract, transaction or zoning
decision of the City except as provided for in Minnesota law.
         B. Any Elected Official who has an interest in any proposed action by
the City Council or Board or Commission in which such Appointed Official is a
member ("Board") shall disclose on the record of the City Council or Board, as
the case may be, the nature and extent of such interest. Any Appointed Official
or Employee having an interest in any proposed action of the Council and who
gives an opinion or recommendation to the City Council or Board, shall disclose
on the record of the City Council or Board the nature and extent of such
interest.
         C. It is unlawful for any Elected Official, Appointed Official or
Employee to accept any gift or gratuity in any size under circumstances in
which it could be reasonably thought to influence him or her in the performance
of his or her official duties or appears to be a reward for any official action
on his or her part. Gifts or gratuities which may be acceptable are as follows:
            1. Awards for meritorious civic service contribution.
            2. Unsolicited items that are donated to and shared by the work
group.
            3. Unsolicited advertising or promotional materials with a value of
less than $5.00.
            4. Unsolicited items such as meals which may be provided during
meetings, receptions or other gatherings where the Elected Official, Appointed
Official or Employee is in attendance in his or her official capacity.
      Subd. 3. Use and Safeguarding of City Property.
         A. It is unlawful for any Elected Official, Appointed Official, or
Employee to use or permit the use of City-owned vehicles, equipment, machinery,
or property for personal conveniences or profit unless the use is available to
the public generally or is provided as a City policy for the use of such
Elected Official, Appointed Official, or Employee in the conduct of official
business.
         B. All Elected Officials, Appointed Officials and Employees of the
City who have authority over, or the use of City vehicles, equipment, machinery
or property in the course of their duties must assume responsibility for the
safeguarding and care of such items.
      Subd. 4. Disclosure of Information.
         A. It is unlawful for any Elected Official, Appointed Official or
Employee, with respect to any transaction, zoning decision, or other matter
which may be the subject of an official act or action of the City, without
proper legal authorization, to disclose nonpublic information as defined by
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 13 concerning the property, government or affairs
of the City, or use such information to advance the financial or other private
interest of the other Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee.
         B. It is unlawful for any Elected Official, Appointed Official or
Employee who has custody of or access to any personnel files or other
information which may be considered confidential by Minnesota Law to use or
release such information without proper authority.
      Subd. 5. Political Activities. Political activities generally which are
not in violation of State and Federal Laws are permitted. The following
political activities are prohibited for Elected Officials, Appointed Officials
and Employees:
         A. It is unlawful for any Elected Official, Appointed Official or
Employee to use an official City title or designate employment with the City in
political advertisements, endorsements or speeches.
      Subd. 6. Advisory Opinions.
         A. Where any Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee has a
doubt as to the applicability of any provision of this Section to a particular
situation, or as to the definition of terms used herein, that person may apply
to the City Attorney for an advisory opinion. The City Attorney, with the
approval of the City Council, may confer such request for opinion to the
Minnesota Attorney General.
         B. In any matter where an Elected Official, Appointed Official or
Employee has sought an advisory opinion from the City Attorney and the Elected
Official, Appointed Official or Employee is subsequently prosecuted for a
violation of this Section for an action which conformed to the City Attorney's
opinion, or the Minnesota Attorney General's opinion, the case shall be
referred to the County Attorney.
      Subd. 7. Actions or Statements on Behalf of City.
         A. No Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee shall provide
any written statement of opinion or comment in the official capacity of such
officer or employee on any topic to any media outlet without the prior approval
of such statement by the City Council. However, this does not restrict the
rights of representatives of the press to attend all meetings and to interview
Elected Officials, Appointed Officials or Employees.
         B. No Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee in the official
capacity of such Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee, shall
provide any written or oral statement using such person's City title or
designate employment or status with the City and such person makes a positive
statement that such statement is made in the individual capacity of such
Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee and not in his/her official
capacity which is contrary to a position taken by the City or its Council,
Commissions or Boards.
         C. No Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee in the official
capacity of such Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee shall
undertake investigations or take other actions involving third parties with
respect to a matter that is before the City Council or Boards without prior
authorization to do so by action of the Council or Board that the matter is
before.
         D. An Elected Official, Appointed Official or Employee shall not use
his or her official position to solicit privileges or special treatment.
Source: City Code         Source: Ordinance No. 45
Effective Date: 06-01-2000   Effective Date: 10-24-2008
(Sections 2.62 through 2.69, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 2.70. PARTIAL PREPAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
      Subd. 1. Partial Prepayment of Assessments Permitted. After the adoption
of an assessment roll pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 429, as amended,
and before certification of said assessment roll to the County Auditor, the
City Administrator, or other authorized official, is authorized and directed to
accept partial prepayment of said assessment, and reduce the amount certified
to the County Auditor accordingly. As provided by law, such partial prepayment
may be accepted only during the thirty-day period following approval of the
assessment roll.
      Subd. 2. Scope. This Section shall apply to all assessment rolls which,
on the effective date hereof, have been adopted by the Council but not yet
certified to the County Auditor, and to all assessment rolls subsequently
adopted by the Council.
SEC. 2.71. CURRENT SERVICES - SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
      Subd. 1. Definition. "Current Service", as used in this Section, means
one or more of the following: (1) removal of snow, ice, dirt, and refuse from
sidewalks, (2) eliminate weeds and cut grass on private property and on non-
traveled portions of abutting streets, (3) remove or eliminate public health or
safety hazards from private property, (4) repair abutting sidewalks, (5) street
sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of
streets, and (6) trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound trees from
public streets or private property.
      Subd. 2. Responsibility of Owner or Occupant. It is the primary
responsibility of all owners and occupants of private property to (1) remove
snow, ice, dirt, and refuse from adjacent sidewalks, (2) eliminate weeds and
cut grass thereon and on non-traveled portions of abutting streets, (3) remove
or eliminate public health or safety hazards therefrom, and, (4) repair
abutting sidewalks.
      Subd. 3. Ice, Snow, Dirt and Refuse on Sidewalks. All ice and snow within
twelve (12) hours after it ceases to be deposited thereon, and all dirt and
refuse deposited thereon, shall be removed by the owner or occupant of abutting
private property. If ice, snow, dirt or refuse is not so removed the City may
do so and keep a record of the cost attributable to each property.
      Subd. 4. Weeds and Grass. On or before June 1 of each year and at such
other times as may be ordered by the Council, the City may publish notice in
the official newspaper to cut and remove all weeds whether noxious or not, and
cut all grass, on private property having attained a height of six (6) inches,
and on non-traveled portions of abutting streets, within ten (10) days after
such notice. If weeds are not so cut and removed, or if grass is not so cut,
the City may do so and keep a record of the cost attributable to each property.
      Subd. 5. Public Health and Safety Hazards.
         A.
   Any condition, whether or not unlawful, permitted or maintained on private
property and reported to the City Administrator shall be referred by him/her to
a member of the City staff or department he/she deems appropriate for
investigation. If it is found that such condition is a hazard to the public
health or safety, a written report of the findings shall be prepared and
presented to the Council at its meeting next following the preparation of such
report. The Council shall consider such report and may call a hearing thereon
upon at least twenty (20) days written notice mailed to the owner and occupant
of the subject premises, which notice shall include a copy of such findings.
This Subdivision does not relate to hazardous buildings.
         B. If, at the time of the hearing, the City Administrator shall report
that the hazard has been eliminated, hearing shall not be held, and the matter
closed. If at such time the hazard has not been eliminated, the hearing shall
proceed and be handled as an administrative appeal under this Chapter.
         C. Upon the evidence adduced at the hearing the Council shall make
findings which shall be forthwith served upon the owner and occupant of the
premises. If it is found that a public health or safety hazard exists on such
premises, a notice shall accompany such findings, which notice shall state that
the owner and occupant have ten (10) days to eliminate such hazard or the City
will do so under the authority of this Section.
         D. If the owner and occupant do not so eliminate such hazard, or
commence and do not proceed with such elimination, the City may do so and keep
a record of the cost thereof.
      Subd. 6. Repair of Sidewalks.
         A. Notice - No Emergency. Where, in the opinion of the City, no
emergency exists, notice of required repair or reconstruction shall be given to
the owner and occupant of the abutting property. Such notice shall require
completion of the work within ninety (90) days.
         B. Notice - Emergency. Where, in the opinion of the City, an emergency
exists, notice of required repair or reconstruction shall be given to the owner
and occupant of the abutting property. Such notice shall require completion of
the work within ten (l0) days.
         C. Failure of Owner and Occupant to Repair or Reconstruct. If the
owner and occupant do not so repair or reconstruct such sidewalk, the City may
do so and keep a record of the cost thereof.
      Subd. 7. Street Sprinkling, Street Flushing, and Tree Care.
         A. The Council may each year determine what streets shall be sprinkled
or flushed, oiled, or given other dust treatment during the year and the kind
of work to be done on each. The Council may also determine from time to time
the streets on which trees (other than diseased trees) shall be trimmed and
cared for, the kind of work to be done, and what unsound trees shall be
removed. The City Administrator shall, under the Council's direction, publish
notice that the Council will meet to consider such projects. Such notice shall
be published in the official newspaper at least once no less than two weeks
prior to such meeting of the Council and shall state the date, time and place
of such meeting, the streets affected and the particular projects proposed and
the estimated cost of each project, either in total or on the basis of the
proposed assessment per front foot or otherwise.
         B. At such hearing the Council shall hear property owners with
reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed projects. The Council
shall thereupon adopt a resolution confirming the original projects with such
modifications as it considers desirable and shall provide for doing the work by
day labor or by contract. The City shall keep a record of the cost and the
portion of the cost properly attributable to each lot and parcel of property
abutting on the street.
      Subd. 8. Personal Liability. The owner of property on or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of such service. When the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City may prepare a bill and mail to the owner and the amount
shall then be due and payable.
      Subd. 9. Assessment. Charges for any current services unpaid after
billing, and after notice and hearing, may be certified to the County Auditor
and collected as any other special assessment.
SEC. 2.72. CONVEYANCES BY CONTRACT FOR DEED.
   The City may commence an action to require recordation of all contracts for
deed and assignments. Written notice to record shall be sufficient if it is
given either to the vendor or the vendee named in the contract for deed or
assignment. Such notice shall be given at least ten (10) days before the date
by which recordation is required.
SEC. 2.73. FILING OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS REQUIRED.
      Subd. 1. A certified copy of every ordinance, resolution, map, or
regulation which relates to subdivision regulations, land needed for future
street purposes and as sites for other necessary public facilities and
services, and conditional use permits shall be filed with the County Recorder.
      Subd. 2. A certified copy of every variance to subdivision regulations
shall be filed with the County Recorder. Provided, that this requirement is
satisfied if a resolution citing the existence of the variance is filed
identifying the location where the variance documents are available for
inspection.
      Subd. 3. A copy of a comprehensive plan shall be filed with all
contiguous municipalities.
      Subd. 4. Copies of resolutions approving subdivision plats of land shall
be filed with all contiguous municipalities.
SEC. 2.74. TRUST OR ESCROW ACCOUNT FOR FIRE OR EXPLOSION LOSSES.
   The City may establish a trust or escrow account to hold proceeds from
losses arising from fire or explosion of insured real property located within
the City. The City may utilize these funds to secure, repair or demolish
damaged or destroyed structures and clear the property in question, so that the
structure and property are in compliance with local code requirements and
applicable City Code provisions. Any unused portion of the retained proceeds
shall be returned to the insured. In addition, the regulatory and procedural
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, 65A.50, Trust or Escrow Accounts; Insured
Real Property Fire or Explosion Loss Proceeds are hereby incorporated herein
and adopted by reference, including the penalty provision thereof.
SEC. 2.75. WAGE RATES AND HOURS FOR CITY PROJECTS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Basic Hourly Rate" - The hourly wage paid to any employee.
         2. "Prevailing Wage Rate" - The basic hourly rate plus fringe benefits
prevailing in the County of Lake, as determined by the Minnesota Department of
Labor and Industry; provided that whenever employer and employee organizations
employing and representing a majority of a class of workers in a particular
industry within the City jointly certify that the prevailing basic hourly rate
plus fringe benefits of such workers differs from the amount determined by the
Secretary of Labor, the certified rate shall be considered to be the prevailing
wage rate for such class of workers in that industry.
         3. "Fringe Benefits" - Employer contribution for health and welfare
benefits, vacation benefits, pension benefits, and all other economic benefits
other than the basic hourly rate.
         4. "Apprentice Trainee" - An employee who is working under a training
program which is approved either by the U.S Department of Labor Bureau of
Apprenticeship and Training or the Minnesota Director of Voluntary
Apprenticeship.
         5. "Project" - Erection, construction, demolition, remodeling or
repairing of any public building, highway, sidewalk, bridge, water or gas line,
sewer and sewage treatment facility or other public work performed under
contract with the City.
         6. "Laborer, Mechanic" - All persons utilized, employed or working on
a project who are doing work usually done by mechanics and laborers, including
proprietors, partners, and members of cooperatives.
      Subd 2. Wage Rates and Hours for City Projects.
         A. Any contract which provides for a project of estimated total cost
of over $25,000.00 shall contain a stipulation that no laborer, mechanic or
apprentice-trainee employed directly upon the project work site by the
contractor or any subcontractor shall be permitted or required to work at a
rate of pay less than the prevailing wage rate; nor shall any such employee be
permitted or required to work more than 8 hours in a work day or 40 hours in
any work week unless he is paid at a rate of at least 1-1/2 times the basic
hourly rate for all hours in excess of 8 per day or 40 per week and unless he
receives fringe benefits that are at least equal to those in the prevailing
wage rate; provided that whenever employer and employee organizations employing
and representing a majority of a class of workers in a particular industry
within the City jointly certify that the maximum number of hours that such
persons may work under existing labor agreements before overtime wages must be
paid differs from the hours specified in this Subdivision, the maximum number
of hours specified in such labor agreements shall be substituted for those
specified above in applying the provisions of this Subdivision to such workers.
         B. All contracts for City projects shall have applicable schedules of
prevailing wage rates set forth in the contract. Schedules of applicable
prevailing wage rates shall be present on all project job sites and shall
either be posted on the site or be on the person of any supervisor in charge of
the job site.
         C. Employees on projects shall be paid at least weekly. Fringe
benefits shall be paid either in cash or to an employee benefit plan that has
been approved by the U.S. Department of Labor.
         D.  Any contractor or subcontractor working on a project shall furnish
the City with a copy of all payrolls relating to the project. Such payroll
reports shall be submitted weekly on U.S. Department of Labor standard forms or
their equivalent to the employee of the City in charge of supervising contract
performance.
         E.  No contractor or subcontractor working on a project shall evade or
attempt to evade the provisions of this Section through the use of
nonrecognized training programs. The only employees involved in training
programs that shall be allowed to work on projects covered by this Section
shall be apprentice-trainees as defined by this Section.
         F. Any person violating the provisions of this Section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor with each day of violation constituting a separate offense. In
addition, if the prevailing wage rate is not paid to employees working on a
project, the City may withhold contract payments to the contractor until such
deficiencies are corrected.
         G. This Section shall not apply to contracts for projects where the
total estimated cost of the project is less than $15,000.00; nor to materialmen
who do no more than deliver materials to the work site, except that this
Section shall apply to employees who deliver asphalt, concrete or mineral
aggregate such as sand, gravel or stone where such material is incorporated
into the project by depositing the material substantially in place, either
directly or through spreaders, from the transporting vehicle.
      Subd. 3. Kickbacks from Public Works Employees Prohibited. It is unlawful
for any contractor working on a project or other person to, by force,
intimidation, or threat of termination of employment, cause any employee
working on a project to give up any part of the compensation to which he/she is
entitled under his/her contract of employment.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
SEC. 2.76. WITHHOLDING APPROVALS BECAUSE OF DELINQUENCIES OR DEFAULTS.
      Subd. 1.  Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section,
shall have the meanings stated:
         A. “Applicant” - Any person or entity making an application for a
license permit or other City approval.
         B.  “Affiliated Person or Entity” - Any person living in the same
household as applicant or any entity in which applicant owns at least twenty
percent (20%) of the ownership interests in such entity.
      Subd. 2. Requirements for City Approvals. A license, permit or other City
approval or authorization of any kind may be granted to an applicant only if
all fees, charges, taxes, special assessments and other debts or obligations
that are due and payable by applicant or an affiliated person or entity to the
City regarding any matter are paid in full.
Source: Ordinance No. 54
Effective Date: 06-10-2010
SEC. 2.77 PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENTS.
   A project labor agreement, in substantially the form adopted by resolution
of the City Council from time to time and kept by the City as a public
document, shall be required to be used on each City construction project, with
a total estimated construction cost of $150,000.00 or more. The City shall
implement the project labor agreement requirement by requiring adherence to the
project labor agreement in the specifications in the construction bidding
documents for the applicable project. No contractor shall be required to be or
become a party to a collective bargaining agreement in order to qualify to work
under a project labor agreement for a particular City project.
Source: Ordinance No. 94
Effective Date: 02-13-2014
SEC. 2.78 BEST VALUE CONTRACTING.
   The City Administration shall duly consider utilizing best value contracting
as permitted by Minnesota Statutes Section 471.345 as an alternative to the
competitive bidding process for each City construction project with a total
estimated construction cost of less than $150,000.00 and for any City purchase
of equipment with a total cost of less than $150,000.00.
Source: Ordinance No. 94
Effective Date: 02-13-2014
(Sections 2.79 through 2.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 2.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 3
MUNICIPAL AND PUBLIC UTILITIES - RULES AND REGULATIONS, RATES, CHARGES AND
COLLECTIONS
SEC. 3.01. DEFINITIONS.  
   As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings stated:
      Subd. 1. "Utility" means all utility services, whether the same be City-
owned facilities or furnished by public utility companies.
      Subd. 2. "Municipal Utility" means any City-owned utility, including, but
not by way of limitation, water, sanitary sewer, gas, electric and storm sewer.
      Subd. 3. "Company", "Grantee", and "Franchisee" mean any public utility
system to which a franchise has been granted by the City.
      Subd. 4. "Customer" means the owner of any property served by a utility
or the occupant of the property served by the utility or the user of any
utility.
      Subd. 5. "Service" means providing a particular utility to a customer.
SEC. 3.02. FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.  
   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, including, but not by way of
limitation, rates for service, permit fees, deposits, connection and meter
testing fees, disconnection fees, reconnection fees and penalties for non-
payment shall be fixed, determined and amended from time to time by the Council
and adopted by resolution. Such resolution, containing the effective date
thereof, shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the office of the City
Administrator and shall be uniformly enforced. For the purpose of fixing such
rates and charges, the Council may categorize and classify under the various
types of service, provided, that such categorization and classification shall
be included in the resolution authorized by this Section.
SEC. 3.03. CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.  
   Provisions of this Chapter relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the City and all customers of municipal
utility services, and every such customer shall be deemed to assent to the same
by virtue of the customer's use of the municipal utilities.
SEC. 3.04. RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
      Subd. 1. Billing, Payment and Delinquency. All municipal utilities shall
be billed monthly and an invoice shall be mailed to the owner of each property
served by a utility and such other person designated by the owner to receive
the invoice at the end of the first week of each month. All invoices shall be
delinquent if they are unpaid at 4:30 P.M. on the last business day of the
month in which they were mailed. A penalty of five percent (5%) on the unpaid
balance, with exception for those accounts that have made and kept satisfactory
budget plan arrangements, shall be added to, and become part of, all delinquent
utility invoices. If service is suspended due to delinquency it shall not be
restored at that location until a reconnection charge has been paid for each
utility reconnected in addition to amounts owed for prior service and
applicable penalties.
      Subd. 2. Application, Connection and Sale of Service. Application for
municipal utility services shall be made upon forms supplied by the City, and
strictly in accordance therewith. No connection shall be made until written
consent has been received from the City to make the same. All municipal
utilities shall be sold and delivered to a customer under the then applicable
rate applied to the amount of such utilities taken as metered or ascertained in
connection with such rates.
      Subd. 3. Discontinuance of Service. All municipal utilities may be shut
off or discontinued, subject to the provisions of Section 3.08 hereof, whenever
it is found that:
         A. The owner or occupant of the property served, or any person working
on any connection with the municipal utility systems, has violated any
requirement of the City Code relative thereto, or any connection therewith, or,
         B. Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other financial
obligation imposed on the present owner or occupant of the property served, is
unpaid after due notice thereof, or,
         C. There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery or charges therefor.
      Subd. 4. Ownership of Municipal Utilities. Ownership of all municipal
utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions and appurtenances thereto, shall be
and remain in the City and no person shall own any part or portion thereof.
Provided, however, that private facilities and appurtenances constructed on
private property are not intended to be included in municipal ownership.
      Subd. 5. Right of Entry. By applying for, or receiving, a municipal
utility service, a customer irrevocably consents and agrees that any City
employee acting within the course and scope of his/her employment may enter
into and upon the private property of the customer, including dwellings and
other buildings, at all reasonable times under the circumstances, in or upon
which private property a municipal utility, or connection therewith, is
installed, for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, reading meters, connecting
or disconnecting the municipal utility service.
      Subd. 6. Meter Test. Whenever a customer shall request the City to test
any utility meter in use by the customer, such a request shall be accompanied
by a cash deposit for each meter to be tested. If any such meter is found to be
inaccurate the same shall be replaced with an accurate meter and the deposit
thereon refunded. If the meter shall be found to be accurate in its recordings
or calculations it shall be reinstalled and the deposit shall be retained by
the City to defray the cost of such test.
      Subd. 7. Unlawful Acts.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb, or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture, or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use, or alter in any way any municipal utility system without first
having applied for and received written permission to do so from the City.
         C. It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when
the same has been turned off or disconnected by the City for any reason,
without first having obtained a permit to do so from the City.
         D. It is unlawful for any person to "jumper" or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
      Subd. 8. Municipal Utility Services and Charges a Lien.
         A. Payment for all municipal utility service and charges shall be the
primary responsibility of the fee owner of the property served by the utility
and shall be billed to such owner. If the municipal utilities and charges are
for services to a single metered multi-unit rental residential building, the
owner of the building shall be the customer of record and this responsibility
shall not be waived by contract or otherwise. The City may collect the same in
a civil action or, in the alternative and at the option of the City, as
otherwise provided in this Subdivision.
      Subd. 9. Municipal Utilities Services Outside the City. The City is
hereby authorized to furnish municipal utilities services to Customers outside
the City, provided, that such Customers specifically agree to all of the terms
of the City Code, including, but not limited to, rules, regulations and rates
adopted thereunder and the right to certify delinquent charges on the tax
rolls.
SEC. 3.05. CONNECTION OR TAPPING PROHIBITED - DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS OR
CHARGES.
   No permit shall be granted to tap or connect with municipal utility lines
when any assessment or connection charge for such utility against the property
to be connected is in default or delinquent. If such assessment or connection
charges are payable in installments, no permit shall be granted unless all
installments then due and payable have been paid.
SEC. 3.06. CERTIFICATION REQUIRED PRIOR TO TAPPING OR CONNECTION.  
   Prior to issuance of a permit to tap or connect a lot or parcel of land with
a municipal utility, the City Administrator shall issue a certificate of
compliance with one of the Subdivisions of this Section.
      Subd. 1. The certificate shall state that such lot or parcel has been
specially assessed for its share of the cost of construction of the applicable
municipal utility lines, and that no installments thereof are delinquent or
permit fees unpaid.
      Subd. 2. The certificate shall state that such lot or parcel has not been
specially assessed for its share of the cost of construction of the applicable
municipal utility lines, but that proceedings have been, or will be, commenced,
and that no permit fees are unpaid.
      Subd. 3. The certificate shall state that such lot or parcel has not been
specially assessed for its share of the cost of construction of the applicable
municipal utility lines, but that a sum equal to such share has been paid to
the City, and that no permit fees are unpaid. Any certificate issued under this
Subdivision shall provide that in the event of a subsequent assessment thereon
for such utility, the amount of the assessment hereunder shall be credited
against the subsequent assessment.
SEC. 3.07. ABANDONED SERVICES - PENALTIES.  
   All service installations connected to a municipal utility system that have
been abandoned or, for any reason, have become useless for further service
shall be forthwith disconnected at the main. The owner of the property served
shall pay all costs of excavation, capping, main and street restoration. The
City shall perform the actual disconnection and all pipe and appurtenances
removed from the street right-of-way shall become the property of the City. It
is unlawful for any person to cause or allow any service pipe to be hammered or
squeezed together at the ends to stop the flow of gas or water, or to save
expense in improperly removing such pipe from the main. Also, such improper
disposition thereof shall be corrected by the City and the cost incurred shall
be borne by the person causing or allowing such work to be performed. If any
property owner shall fail to pay the costs incident to services performed under
this Section, the City may collect payment therefor as any other utility
charge.
SEC. 3.08. DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
      Subd. 1. Shut-off for Nonpayment. No municipal utility shall be shut-off
until the procedures in this Subd. 1 have been followed.
         A. If any invoice is not paid by the due date listed on the invoice, a
second invoice will be mailed by first class mail and shall state that if
payment is not made within ten (10) days of the mailing of the second invoice,
the municipal utility service covered by such invoice will be shut-off for
nonpayment.
         B. The second invoice and shut-off notice must contain the title,
address and telephone number of the official in charge of billing; the title,
address and phone number shall be clearly visible and easily readable.
         C. The owner, user or occupant may present orally or in writing any
excuses or reasons why payment has not been made to the city official in charge
of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order continuation of
the customer's service and shall have the authority to adjust the customer's
invoice or enter into a mutually agreeable payment plan.
         D. The shut-off notice shall also state that any user of the utility,
occupant of the property served and the owner of the property served have the
right to a hearing before the municipal utility service is shut-off. The owner,
user or occupant may appear in person or be represented by counsel or any other
person of his or her choosing.
         E. If an occupant, user or owner requests a hearing, the hearing shall
be promptly held before the City Council or such other person or persons as may
be designated from time to time by the City Council. The municipal utility
service shall not be shut-off until the hearing process is complete.
         F. If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this subdivision, the municipal utility service will be shut-off at the time
specified in the notice.
      Subd. 2. Certification for Collection with Taxes. Unpaid charges for
municipal utility service shall not be certified to the county auditor until
notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been provided to the owner of the
property served by the municipal utility service. The notice shall be sent by
first class mail to the address of the fee owner of the property as shown on
the records of the Lake County Auditor and shall state that if payment is not
made before the charges are certified for payment with the real estate taxes
("Certification Date"), the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be
certified to the Lake County Auditor for collection as real estate taxes are
collected. The notice shall also state that the owner may, before the
Certification Date, request a hearing on the matter to object to certification
of unpaid utility charges.
      The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the balance due
on the account until the date the notice of the certification hearing is
mailed. After the date the notice of certification hearing is mailed, payments
will still be accepted but must include unpaid penalties.
      If the owner requests a hearing, it shall be held promptly by the City
Council or such person or persons as may be designated from time to time by the
City Council. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this Subdivision, the City may certify by resolution the
unpaid charges to the Lake County Auditor for collection as other taxes are
collected. Following any certification, the property owner shall have the
following options:
         A. To pay the amount determined to be certified without additional
interest if payment is made in full within ten days of the decision by the City
Council ("City Council Decision Date") to certify the unpaid charges for
collection with the real estate taxes.
         B. To pay the amount determined to be certified after the City Council
Decision Date, but before November 15 of the tax year in which the
certification is ordered, with interest at the rate set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council, accrued after the eleventh day following the
City Council Decision Date through the date of payment.
         C. To pay the certified charges with his/her/its real estate taxes in
the year following the certification.
SEC. 3.09. OTHER REMEDIES.  
   In addition to any procedures or penalties provided for this Section, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this Section,
the council or any city official designated by it may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment and or enforce the
provisions of this Section.
SEC. 3.10. JOINT LIABILITY FOR PAYMENTS.  
   The owner of property which are connected to any municipal utility, the
occupant thereof and the user of the service shall be jointly and severally
liable to pay for the service to such property and the service is furnished to
the property by the City only upon the condition that the owner of the
property, occupant and user of the services are jointly and severally liable to
the City therefor. A claim for unpaid charges which have been billed to the
occupant of the property or the user of the service may be recovered against
the owner, occupant or user in a civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction or in the discretion of the City Administrator may be certified to
the county auditor to be collected with taxes against such property so served.
The certification of such charges shall be performed in accordance with the
provisions of Section 3.08. Money paid to the Lake County Auditor on such
account shall belong to the City and shall be remitted to the City treasurer by
the Lake County Auditor in the manner provided by law for the payment of other
money belonging to the City. In addition to, and not in lieu of, the foregoing
method of enforcing payment of such charges, the City Administrator may,
according to such rules and regulations as he/she may have established and the
City Council shall have by resolution approved, cause all municipal utilities
for and to any property to be shut off until all arrears, with interest and
penalties on such delinquent charges, shall be paid, together with the cost of
shutting off and turning on such water.
Source: City Code         Source: Ordinance No. 91
Effective Date: 06-01-2000   Effective Date: 01-01-2014
(Sections 3.11 through 3.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 3.20. RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO WATER SERVICE.
      Subd. 1. Deficiency of Water and Shutting Off Water. The City is not
liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of water to customers
whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the purpose of making repairs
or connections or by any other cause whatever. In case of fire, or alarm of
fire, water may be shut off to insure a supply for fire fighting. In making
repairs or construction of new works, water may be shut off at any time and
kept off so long as may be necessary.
      Subd. 2. Repair of Leaks. It is the responsibility of the consumer or
owner to maintain the water service from the curb stop into the house or other
building. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or owner to repair
any leak occurring in his/her water service within twenty-four (24) hours after
oral or written notice has been given the owner or occupant of the premises,
the water may be shut off and will not be turned on until a reconnection charge
has been paid and the water service has been repaired. When the waste of water
is great or when damage is likely to result from the leak, the water will be
turned off if the repair is not proceeded with immediately.
      Subd. 3. Increasing Size of Water Service. When it is desired to increase
the size of water service from the main, a new permit shall be taken out and
the regular tapping charge shall be made as if this were a new service.
      Subd. 4. Service Pipes. Every service pipe must be laid in such manner as
to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less
than seven feet below the surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent
rupture and stoppage by freezing. Frozen service pipes between the curb stop
and the building shall be the responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must
extend from the curb stops to the inside of the building; or if not taken into
a building then to the hydrant or other fixtures which they are intended to
supply. A valve, the same size as the service pipe, shall be placed close to
the inside wall of the building, ahead of the meter and well protected from
freezing. Joints on copper tubing shall be flared or compression-fitted, and
kept to a minimum. Not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to
seventy feet in length. All joints shall be left uncovered until inspected.
Minimum size connection with the water mains shall be 3/4 inch in diameter.
      Subd. 5. Private Water Supplies. No water pipe of the City water system
shall be connected with any pump, well, pipe, tank or any device that is
connected with any other source of water supply and when such are found, the
City shall notify the owner or occupant to disconnect the same and, if not
immediately done, the City water shall be turned off. Before any new
connections to the City system are permitted, the City shall ascertain that no
cross-connections will exist when the new connection is made. When a building
is connected to "City Water" the private water supply may be used only for such
purposes as the City may allow.
      Subd. 6. Prohibited Uses or Restricted Hours. Whenever the City shall
determine that a shortage of water threatens the City, it may entirely prohibit
water use or limit the times and hours during which water may be used from the
City water system for lawn and garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air
conditioning, and other uses, or either or any of them. It is unlawful for any
water consumer to cause or permit water to be used in violation of such
determination after public announcement thereof has been made through the news
media specifically indicating the restrictions thereof.
      Subd. 7. Private Fire Hose Connections. Owners of structures with self-
contained fire protection systems may apply for and obtain permission to
connect the street mains with hydrants, large pipes, and hose couplings, for
use in case of fire only, at their own installation expense and at such rates
as the Council may adopt by resolution as herein provided.
      Subd. 8. Opening Hydrants.  It is unlawful for any person, other than
members of the Fire Department or other person duly authorized by the City, in
pursuance of lawful purpose, to open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water
from the same or in any manner interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any
person so authorized to deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person
any hydrant key or wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their
lawful use.
      Subd. 9. Unmetered Service.  Unmetered service may be provided for
construction, flooding skating rinks, and any other purpose. Such service shall
be at a duly adopted rate. Where it is difficult or impossible to accurately
measure the amount of water taken, unmetered service may be provided and the
unmetered rate applied; provided, however, that by acceptance thereof the
consumer agrees to have the City estimate the water used. In so estimating the
City shall consider the use to which the water is put and the length of time of
unmetered service.
      Subd. 10. Water Meters. 
         A. One water meter will be provided and installed or caused to be
installed by the City, at City cost, on each residential property serviced by
City water service as of August 22, 2011. If more than one (1) water meter is
desired by the owner of the property (“property owner”) to be installed on any
residential property then the property owner shall be responsible for the cost
of the additional water meters, and the installation of the additional water
meters. The installation of the water meters shall be done by a licensed
plumber in accordance with all applicable codes, rules and regulations. The
installation will not be deemed to be complete until the installation is
inspected by the City and a certificate that the water meter has been inspected
and the installation has been approved is issued by the City.
         B. The owner of the property for the purpose of this Subd. 10 of this
Section 3.20 shall be the person or entity as shown on the most recent real
estate tax statement for the property.
         C. One (1) water meter will be provided at City cost for each non-
residential property serviced by City water service before or after the
effective date of this Section and for each residential property serviced by
City water service after August 22, 2011. The property owner shall cause any
water meter provided to a property owner by the City pursuant to this
Subparagraph C. to be installed at the property owner’s sole cost and expense.
The installation shall be done by a licensed plumber in accordance with all
applicable codes, rules and regulations. The installation will not be deemed to
be complete until the installation is inspected by the City and a certificate
that the water meter has been inspected and the installation has been approved
is issued by the City. No fee will be charged by the City for such inspection.
No water service will be provided to a property that is not serviced by the
City water service on August 22, 2011 until a certificate of inspection has
been issued by the City with respect to the installation of a water meter for
such new service.
         D. If a water meter cannot be installed because it is impossible to
shut off the water supply to the property because the curb stop for the water
service to such property is missing or defective then in that event, the City
will, at its cost and expense, replace or repair the curb stop.
         E. City shall at City’s cost and expense make all repairs, maintenance
and/or replacements to water meters installed pursuant to the terms of this
Subd. 10, provided however that all repairs, maintenance and replacements of
water meters resulting from improper use or from damage caused by neglect or
carelessness of the property owner or any other person shall be the
responsibility of the property owner.
         F. City shall be entitled to access to the property of a property
owner at all reasonable times in order to install, repair, maintain or replace
a water meter or to read a water meter.
         G. A surcharge of $100.00 per month is hereby imposed and added to
every water billing for water service to a property that is mailed on or after
the date that a property owner refuses to allow the City or its authorized
contractor or agent access to install, maintain, repair or read a water meter
on the property of the property owner. The surcharge shall be added every month
until the property owner allows access to the property so that the City can
install, maintain, repair or read a water meter. The imposition of the
surcharge shall not limit the City’s authority to (i) seek an injunction in
District Court that orders the property owner to allow the City access to the
property to install, maintain, repair or read a water meter or (ii) to correct
a violation and certify the costs of correction as an assessment against the
property.
      Subd. 11. Code Requirement.  All piping, connections and appurtenances
shall be installed and performed strictly in accordance with the Minnesota
Plumbing Code. Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance therewith,
or failure to have or permit required inspections shall, upon discovery by the
City, be an additional ground for termination of water service to any consumer.
      Subd. 12. Additional Rules and Regulations.  The Council may, by
resolution, adopt such additional rules and regulations relating to placement,
size and type of equipment as it, in its discretion, deems necessary or
desirable. Copies of such additional rules and regulations shall be kept on
file in the office of the City Administrator, and uniformly enforced.
Source: City Code         Source: Ordinance No. 65
Effective Date: 06-01-2000   Effective Date: 10-26-2011
(Sections 3.21 through 3.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 3.30. RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO SEWERAGE SERVICE.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Act" - The Federal Water pollution Control Act, also referred to
as the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S. C. 1251, et seq.
         2. "Administration" - Activities required to provide for the efficient
management and conduct of the wastewater treatment works.
         3. "Administration Costs" - Those expenditures attributable to
administration of the wastewater treatment works.
         4. "ASTM" - American Society for Testing Materials.
         5. "Authority" - The City of Two Harbors, Minnesota or its
representative thereof.
         6. "Building Drain" - That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a
drainage system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage
pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer
beginning two (2) feet outside the building wall.
         7. "Building Sewer" - The extension from the building drain to the
public sewer or other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection
or service connection.
         8. "Capital Recovery Charge" - A charge levied on users of the
wastewater treatment works for the cost of capital-related expenditures.
         9. "OBOD5 or Carbonaceous Biochemical Oxygen Demand" - The quantity of
oxygen utilized in the carbonaceous biochemical oxidation of organic matter
under standard laboratory procedures in five (5) days at 20 Centigrade ( C),
expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
         10. "Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD)" - The quantity of oxygen utilized
in the chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard
laboratory procedures, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
         11. "Commercial User" - Any place of business which discharges
domestic strength waste.
         12. "Compatible Waste" - Carbonaceous biochemical oxygen demand,
suspended solids, pH, and fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants
identified in the Treatment Authority's NPDES/SDS Permit if the treatment works
are designed to treat such pollutants to a degree which complies with effluent
concentration limits imposed by the permit.
         13. "Control Manhole" - A structure specially constructed for the
purpose of measuring flow and sampling wastes.
         14. "Domestic Strength Waste" - Wastewater which does not exceed any
pollutant concentration shown below:
            CBOD5 - 300 mg/l
            TSS - 300 mg/l
         15. "Easement" - An acquired legal right for the specific use of land
owned by others.
         16. "Extra Strength Waste" - Wastewater which has a pollutant
concentration greater than that defined for domestic strength waste and not
otherwise classified as a incompatible waste.
         17. "Fecal Coliform" - Any number of organisms common to the
intestinal tract of man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an
indicator of pollution.
         18. "Floatable Oil" - Oil, fat, or grease in a physical state, such
that it will separate by gravity from wastewater.
         19. "Garbage" - Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking, and serving of food.
         20. "Governmental User" - Any unit, agency, or instrument of Federal,
State, or local government which discharges domestic strength waste.
         21. "Incompatible Waste" - Waste which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of the treatment
works, or to interfere with any treatment works process, or which constitutes a
hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or creates any hazard
in or has an adverse effect on the receiving waters of the wastewater treatment
works' or is not defined as a compatible waste, including non-biodegradable
dissolved solids.
         22. "Industrial User" - Any person which discharges any of the
following wastes into the wastewater treatment works:
            A. Industrial wastes,
            B. Incompatible wastes, or
            C. Extra strength wastes.
         23. "Industrial Waste" - Gaseous, liquid, or solid wastes resulting
from an industrial or manufacturing process, trade or business, or from the
development of any natural resources, including, but not limited to, all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual divisions, as follows:
   Division      Industry
    A         Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing
    B         Mining
    D         Manufacturing
    E         Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and Sanitary
Sewers
    I         Services
         24. "Infiltration" - Water, other than wastewater, that enters a sewer
system (including building drains and sewers) from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, and
manhole walls.
         25. "Infiltration/Inflow (I/I)" - The total quantity of water from
both infiltration and inflow.
         26. "Inflow" - Water, other than wastewater, that enters a sewer
system (including building drains and sewers) from sources such as, but not
limited to, roof leaders, cellar drains, yard and area drains, foundation
drains, drains from springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections
from storm sewers, catch basins, surface runoff, street wash waters or
drainage.
         27. "Institutional User" - Any user, other than commercial,
governmental, industrial or residential users, which discharges domestic
strength waste (e.g. non-profit organizations).
         28. "Interference" - The inhibition or disruption of the wastewater
treatment works, processes or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the Treatment Authority's
NPDES/SDS Permit. The term includes the inhibition or disruption of sewage
sludge use or disposal in accordance with published regulations providing
guidelines under Section 405 of the Act or any regulations developed pursuant
to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic Substances
Control Act, or more stringent State criteria applicable to the method of
disposal or use employed.
         29. "MPCA" - Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
         30. "National Categorical Pretreatment Standards" - Federal
regulations establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants
into publicly-owned wastewater treatment works which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by such treatment works or would interfere with the
operation of such treatment works, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act.
         31. "National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit" -
A permit issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may
legally discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to
Sections 402 and 405 of the Act.
         32. "Natural Outlet" - Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined
sewers, which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other body of
surface water or ground water.
         33. "Non-contact Cooling Water" - The water discharged from any use
such as air conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, or during which the only
pollutant added is heat.
         34. "Operation and Maintenance (O&M)" - Activities required to provide
for the dependable and economical functioning of the treatment works throughout
the design or useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment works, and at
the level of performance for which the treatment works were constructed.
Operation and maintenance in includes replacement.
         35. "Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Costs" - Expenditures for
operation and maintenance, including replacement.
         36. "pH" - The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions in terms of grams per liter of solution.
         37. "Pretreatment" - The treatment of wastewater from industrial
sources prior to the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned
treatment works.
         38. "Properly Shredded Garbage" - The wastes from the preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that
all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) in
any dimension.
         39. "Replacement" - The procurement and installation of equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or
useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the
capacity and performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
         40. "Replacement Costs" - Expenditures for replacement.
         41. "Residential User" - A user of the treatment works whose premises
or building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi-detached housing, apartments, and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily domestic strength wastes.
         42. "Sewage" - The spent water of a community. The preferred term is
wastewater.
         43. "Sewer" - A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage
water.
            A. "Collection Sewer" - a sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges and connections.
            B. "Combined Sewer" - a sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer
and a storm sewer.
            C. "Force Main" - a pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
            D. "Interceptor Sewer" - a sewer whose primary purpose is to
transport wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
            E. "Private Sewer" - a sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
            F. "Public Sewer" - a sewer which is owned, maintained and
controlled by a public authority.
            G. "Sanitary Sewer" - a sewer intended to carry only liquid and
water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants,
governmental facilities, and institutions together with minor quantities of
ground, storm, and surface waters which are not admitted intentionally.
            H. "Storm Sewer or Storm Drain" - a drain or sewer intended to
carry storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, sub-surface water, street
wash water, drainage, and unpolluted water from any source.
         44. "Sewer Service Charge" - The aggregate of all charges including
charges for operation, maintenance, replacement, capital recovery, and other
sewer related charges that are billed periodically to users of the City's
wastewater treatment works.
         45. "Sewer Service Fund" - A fund into which income from sewer service
charges is deposited along with other income for wastewater treatment.
Expenditures of the Sewer Service Fund will be for operation, maintenance and
replacement costs; and capital-related costs for the wastewater treatment
works.
         46. "Significant Industrial User" - Any industrial user of the
wastewater treatment works which has a discharge (1) in excess of 25,000
gallons per average work day, or (2) has exceeded five percent (5%) of the
total flow received at the treatment works, or (3) which contains a pollutant
in toxic amounts pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act, or (4) which has a
significant effect, either singly or in combination with other contributing
industries, on the wastewater treatment works, the quality of sludge, the
system's effluent quality, or emissions generated by the treatment system.
         47. "Slug" - Any discharge of water or wastewater which in
concentration of any given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any
period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times
the average 24-hour concentration or flow during normal operation, and shall
adversely affect the operation and/or performance of the wastewater treatment
works.
         48. "Standard Industrial Classification Manual" - Office of Management
and Budget,1972;as amended and supplemented.
         49. "State Disposal System (SDS) Permit" - Any permit (including any
terms, conditions, and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes 115.07 for a disposal system as defined by Minnesota
Statutes 115.01, Subdivision 8.
         50. "Superintendent" - A utilities superintendent or a deputy, or
other representative authorized by the Council.
         51. "Suspended Solids (SS) or Total Suspended Solids (TSS)" - The
total suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in
suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids, and is removable by
laboratory filtering as prescribed in "Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater", latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable
residue.
         52. "Toxic Pollutants" - The concentration of any pollutant or
combination of pollutants which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any
organism, will cause adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to
Section 307(a) of the Act.
         53. "Treatment Authority" - The City of Two Harbors, Minnesota or its
representative thereof.
         54. "Unpolluted Water" - Water of quality equal to or better than the
effluent criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of
receiving water quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to
the wastewater treatment works.
         55.   "User" - Any person who discharges or causes or permits the
discharge of wastewater into the City's wastewater treatment works.
         56. "User Charge" - A charge levied on users of the City's treatment
works for the user's proportionate share of the cost of operation and
maintenance, including replacement.
         57. "Wastewater" - The spent water of a community; also referred to as
sewage. From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid
and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, government
facilities, industrial plants, and institutions together with any ground water,
surface water, and storm water that may be present.
         58. "Wastewater Treatment Works or Treatment Works" - An arrangement
of any devices, facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used
by the City for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling,
and reclamation of municipal, domestic or industrial wastewater, or structures
necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers, outfall
sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works, including
land, which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for
ultimate disposal of residues resulting from such treatment.
         59. "Watercourse" - A natural or artificial channel for the passage of
water, either continuously or intermittently.
         60. "WEF" - Water Environment Federation.
      Subd. 2. Control by the Superintendent. The Council shall appoint an
Authorized Representative who shall have control and general supervision of all
public sewers and service connections in the community or sewer district, and
shall be responsible for administering the provisions of this Section to ensure
that a proper and efficient public sewer is maintained. The authorized
representative may delegate responsibilities to designated representatives.
      Subd. 3. Prohibitions.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
City, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
         B. It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this Section and the Treatment
Authority's NPDES/SDS Permit.
         C. Except as provided hereinafter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
         D. The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the City and adjacent to any street,
alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the City, shall be required, at the owner
(s) expense, to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this Section, within thirty (30) days of the date
said public sewer is operational. All future buildings constructed on property
adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the
public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this Subparagraph,
an official thirty (30) day notice shall be serviced instructing the affected
property owner to make said connection.
         E. In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under Subparagraph D, above, the City must
undertake to have said connection made and shall assess the cost thereof
against the benefitted property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear
interest at the rate determined by the Council and shall be certified to the
Auditor of the County of Lake, Minnesota and shall be collected and remitted to
the City in the same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights
of the City shall be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of
this Section.
      Subd. 4. Private Wastewater Disposal.
         A. Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of Subd.
3, above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this Subdivision.
         B. Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
City. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
City, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications, and
other information as are deemed necessary to the City. A permit and inspection
fee of $10.00 shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
         C. A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the City
or its authorized representative. The City or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the City when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within four (4) business hours of the receipt of notice.
         D. The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minnesota Rule Chapter
7080 entitled, "Individual Sewage Treatment System Standards". No septic tank
or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
         E. At such time as a public sewer of the City becomes available to a
property serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection
shall be made to the public sewer within thirty (30) days in compliance with
the Section, and within sixty (60) days any septic tanks, cesspools, and
similar private wastewater disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The
bottom shall be broken to permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with
suitable material.
         F. The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
City.
         G. No statement contained in this Subdivision shall be constructed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or
the Department of Health of the State of Minnesota or other responsible
Federal, State or local agencies.
      Subd. 5. Building Sewers and Connections.
         A. Any new connections(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be
prohibited unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, CBOD5, and Suspended Solids,
as determined by the Superintendent or other authorized City representative.
         B. It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the City.
         C. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected, and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
         D. There shall be two (2) classes of building sewer permits: (1) for
residential and commercial service, and (2) for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the City. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics, and type of activity. A permit and inspection fee of $10.00
shall be paid to the City at the time the application is filed.
         E. All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the buildings sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s)
shall indemnify the City from any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
         F. A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway. The
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered one building sewer. The City does not and will not assume
any obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
such connection aforementioned.
         G. Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Superintendent or
other authorized City representative, to meet all requirements of this Section.
         H. The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the City. In the absence of Code provisions
or in the amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9, shall
apply.
         I. Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
Source: Ordinance No. 323
Effective Date: 10-08-1993
         J. It is unlawful for any person to make connection of roof down
spouts, foundation drains, area drains, cistern overflows, swimming pools or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or
indirectly to the wastewater treatment works. Dwellings and other buildings and
structures which require, because of the infiltration of water into basements,
crawl spaces and the like, a sump pump system to discharge excess water, shall
have a permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time
discharge water into the sanitary sewer system, except as provided herein. A
permanent installation shall be one which provides for year-round discharge
capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or structure, or is
connected to the City storm sewer or discharges through the curb and gutter to
the street. It shall consist of rigid discharge line, without valving or quick
connections for altering the path of discharge, and if connected to the City
storm sewer line include a check valve.
            1. Before March 31, 1998, any person, firm or corporation having a
roof, surface, ground, sump pump, foundation drain, area drain, cistern
overflow, or swimming pool now connected and/or discharging into the sanitary
sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove same. Any disconnects or openings
in the sanitary sewer system shall be closed or repaired in an effective,
workmanlike manner, as approved by the City.
            2. Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into
the City's sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the City or its
designated representative to inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no
sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any
person refusing to allow their property to be inspected within fourteen (14)
days of the date City employee(s) or their designated representatives are
denied admittance to the property, shall immediately become subject to the
surcharge hereinafter provided for. Any property found to violate this portion
of this Section shall make the necessary changes to comply with this Section
and furnish proof of the changes to the City by July 31, 1997.
            3. At any future time, if the City has reason to suspect that an
illegal connection may exist in a premises, the owner, by written notice shall
comply with the provisions of this Section. Should a property certified in
compliance with this Section be found to have reconnected to a roof drain, sump
pump or any other form of natural precipitation to the sanitary sewer system,
the property owner will be subject to the surcharge for all months between the
last two inspections.
            4. The City shall have the power and duty of hearing and deciding
requests for waivers from the applicability of the provisions of this Section
where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of circumstances
unique to the individual property under consideration or cause a safety
problem.
            5. Application for waivers pursuant to this Subparagraph shall be
addressed in writing to the City. The application shall at a minimum identify
the property for which the waiver is being applied, the name of the property
owner/applicant, and describe in detail what characteristics of the subject
property create undue hardship. Within a reasonable time, the City shall make
its order deciding on the matter and serve a copy of such order upon the
applicant by mail. Upon approval of an application for a waiver, a property
owner shall be allowed to temporarily pump directly into the sanitary sewer
system between the dates of October 15 and April 1, provided the applicant
agrees to pay an additional fee of $25.00 per year for the additional sewer
service, payable April 1 of each year. Employees of the City will divert the
discharge and seal the connection of the discharge to the sanitary sewer using
a meter seal for this waiver period.
            6. A surcharge of $100.00 per month is hereby imposed and added to
every sewer billing mailed on and after March 31, 1998, to each property owner
not in compliance with this Section. The surcharge shall be added every month
until the property is in compliance with this Section. The imposition of the
surcharge shall not limit the City's authority to prosecute the criminal
violations, seek an injunction in District Court ordering the person to
disconnect the non-conforming connection to the sanitary sewer, or for the City
to correct the violation and certify the costs of connection as an assessment
against the property on which the connection is made.
Source: Ordinance No. 346
Effective Date: 10-24-1997
         K. The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State of Minnesota Building and Plumbing
code or other applicable rules and regulations of the City, or the procedures
set forth in appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of
Practice No. 9. All such connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and
verified by proper testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any
deviation from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the
City prior to installation.
         L. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or other authorized City representative thereof.
         M. All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the City.
         N. It is unlawful for any person to make a service connection with any
public sewer unless regularly licensed under this Subdivision to perform such
work, and no permit shall be granted to any person except such regularly
licensed person.
         O. Any person desiring a license to make a service connection with
public sewers, shall apply in writing to the City with satisfactory evidence
that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in the business and
qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be referred to the City
Administrator for recommendations to the Council. If approved by the City, such
license shall be issued by the City Administrator upon the filing of a bond as
hereinafter provided.
         P. No license shall be issued to any person until a $1,000 bond to the
City is filed with the City Administrator conditioned that the licensee will
indemnify and save harmless the City from all suits, accidents, and damage that
may arise by reason of any opening in any street, alley, or public ground, made
by the licensee or by those in the licensee's employment for any purpose
whatever, and that the licensee will replace and restore the street and alley
over such opening to the condition existing prior to installation, adequately
guard with barricades and lights and will keep and maintain the same to the
satisfaction of the Superintendent or other authorized City representative, and
shall conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the City relative
thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the licensee by law.
         Q. The license fee for making service connections shall be established
by the City. All licenses shall expire as established by the City unless the
license is suspended or revoked for cause.
         R. The City may suspend or revoke any license issued under this
Subdivision for any of the following causes:
            1. Giving false information in connection with the application for
a license.
            2. Incompetence of the licensee.
            3. Willful violation of any provisions of this Subdivision or any
rule or regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
      Subd. 6. Use of Public Wastewater Treatment Facilities.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any unpolluted water such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff,
surface drainage, or non-contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
         B. Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the City and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters nay be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet upon approval of the City and upon approval and the issuance of
a discharge permit by the MPCA.
         C. It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
            1. Any liquids, solids, or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater treatment works or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides.
            2. Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment works such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles
greater than one-half (1/2) inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
            3. Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.0
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, and personnel of the wastewater treatment works.
            4. Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or
disrupt any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater
treatment works. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any
pollutant identified pursuant to Section 307A of the Act.
         D. The following described substances, materials, water, or wastes
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works,
treatment processes or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The
Superintendent or other authorized City representative may set limitations
lower than limitations established in the regulations below if, in his/her
opinion, such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his/her opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the
Superintendent or other authorized City representative will give consideration
to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and
velocities in the sewers, materials of construction of the sewers, nature of
the wastewater treatment process, the Treatment Authority's NPDES and/or SDS
permit, the Treatment Agreement with the City, capacity of the treatment works,
degree of treatability of wastes and other pertinent factors. The limitations
or restrictions on materials or characteristics of waste or wastewaters
discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be violated without approval
of the Superintendent or other authorized City representative are as follows:
            1. Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150 F (65.6 C),
or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent
at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104 F (40 C),
or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein.
            2. Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 50 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32 F or 150 F (0 C and 65.6
C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 50 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
            3. Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute
a "slug" as defined herein.
            4. Any garbage not properly shredded. Garbage grinders may be
connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments, or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food on the premises or when served by caterers.
            5. Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which,
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, are capable of creating a
public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the
sewers for their maintenance and repair.
            6. Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetables
tanning solutions.
            7. Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage, or
ground water.
            8. Wastewater containing inert suspended solids such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues or dissolved solids
such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate in such
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater treatment works.
            9. Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent or other
authorized City representative in compliance with applicable State or Federal
regulations.
            10. Any waters or wastes containing the following substances in
excess of the limits shown herein:
         Arsenic         *
         Cadmium         1.03   mg/l
         Copper         2.86   mg/l
         Cyanide         1.09   mg/l
         Lead            1.05   mg/l
         Mercury         0.01   mg/l
         Nickel            3.65   mg/l
         Silver            2.14   mg/l
         Total Chromium      5.23   mg/l
         Zinc            8.10   mg/l
         Phenolic Compounds    *
      * - As established by the Superintendent or other authorized City
representative.
            11. Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the
wastewater treatment works which violates any statute, rule, regulation, or
ordinance of any regulatory agency, or State or Federal regulatory body.
            12. Any waters or wastes containing CBOD5 or suspended solids of
such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle such materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be
permitted by specific written agreement subject to the provisions of this
Subparagraph Q of this Subdivision.
         E. If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in Subparagraph D of this Subdivision, and/or which
in the judgement of the Superintendent or other authorized City representative,
may have a deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment works, processes,
or equipment; receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation, and ground water; or
which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the
City may: (1) Reject the wastes; (2) Require pretreatment to an acceptable
condition for discharge to the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act and all addendums thereof; (3) Require control over the quantities and
rates of discharge; and/or (4) Require payment to cover the added costs of
handling, treating, and disposing of wastes not covered by existing sewer
service charges. If the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows is
permitted, the design, installation, and maintenance of the facilities and
equipment shall be made at the owners' expense, and shall be subject to the
review and approval of the City pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
         F. No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in Subparagraphs
C and D of this Subdivision, or contained in the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or any State requirements.
         G. Where pretreatment or flow-equalizating facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
         H. Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Superintendent or other authorized representative, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in Subparagraph D hereof, any flammable
wastes as specified in Subparagraph D hereof, sand or other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of the type to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining
of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal
and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain
a record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collected materials not
performed by the owner's personnel, must be performed by a currently licensed
waste disposal firm.
         I. Where required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes.
Such structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the City. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible at all times.
         J. The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the City, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests, or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this Section and any special condition for discharge
established by the City or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type, and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the City. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with Federal, State, and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the City at such times and in such manner as prescribed by same. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses, and reporting required by
the City. At such times as deemed necessary, the City reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent laboratory.
         K. All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this Section shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater", published by the American Public Health
Association. Sampling methods, locations, times, duration, and frequencies are
to be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the
Superintendent or other authorized City representative.
         L. Where required by the City, the owner of any property serviced by a
sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this Section. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Superintendent or other authorized City representative for
review and approval prior to construction of the facility. Review and approval
of such plans and operating procedures shall not relieve any user from the
responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this Ordinance. Users shall notify the Superintendent or other
authorized City representative immediately upon having a slug or accidental
discharge of substances or wastewater in violation of this Section to enable
countermeasures to be taken to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment
works. Such notification will not relieve any user of any liability for any
expense, loss, or damage to the wastewater treatment works or treatment
process, or for any fines imposed on the City on account thereof under any
State and Federal law. Employers shall insure that all employees who may cause
or discover such a discharge are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
         M. It is unlawful for any person, having charge of any building or
other premises which drains into the public sewer, to permit any substance or
matter which may form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public
sewer. Within ten (10) days after receipt of written notice from the City, the
owner shall install a suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if
one already exists, shall clean out, repair or alter the same, and perform such
work as the Superintendent or other authorized City representative may deem
necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to install a catch basin or
waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same after the period of ten
(10) days, the Superintendent may cause such work to be completed at the
expense of the owner or representative thereof.
         N. Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed,
broken, or out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or
unfit for the purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to
be done as the Superintendent or other authorized City representative may
direct. Each day after ten (10) days that a person neglects or fails to so act
shall constitute a separate violation of this Subdivision, and the
Superintendent or other authorized City representative may then cause the work
to be done, and recover from such owner or agent the expense thereof by an
action in the name of the City.
         O. The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt, or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
         P. In addition to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of
any provision of this Section, the City may assess against any person the cost
of repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result
of the discharge of prohibited wastes by such person, and may collect such
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the City.
         Q. No statement contained in this Subdivision shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the City and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the City for treatment, subject to payment therefore by the
industrial concern, providing that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the Treatment Authority's NPDES and/or State Disposal System Permit
limitations are not violated.
      Subd. 7. Powers and Authority of Inspectors.
         A. The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the City,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the public sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this Section.
         B. The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the City
are authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have
a direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater
treatment works. An industry may withhold information considered confidential;
however, the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
         C. While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the City shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established in writing by the owner,
and the owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to those public
employees and the City shall indemnify the owner against loss or damage to its
property by such public employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the owner and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the owner to maintain safe conditions as required in
Subdivision 4 of this Section.
         D. The Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the City,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair, and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater treatment
works lying within said easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on
said easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
      Subd. 8. Vandalism. It is unlawful for any person to maliciously,
willfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is part of the wastewater
treatment works. Any person violating this provision shall be subject to
immediate arrest under the charge of a misdemeanor.
SEC. 3.31. ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
      Subd. 1. Establishment. The City hereby establishes a Sewer Service
Charge System whereby all revenue collected from users of the wastewater
treatment works will be used to affect all expenditures incurred for operation,
maintenance, and replacement and for capital-related expenditures of the
wastewater treatment works.
         A. Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation,
maintenance, and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the user's
proportionate contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
         B. Each user shall pay its proportionate share of capital recovery
costs of the treatment works, based on the user's proportionate contribution to
the total wastewater loading from all users.
         C. Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater
treatment works shall be determined and fixed in a Sewer Service Charge System,
according to the provisions of this Section. The Sewer Service Charge System
shall be adopted by resolution upon the effective date of this Section, shall
be published in the local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication.
Subsequent changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by
Council resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
         D. Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a
separate fund known as the Sewer Service Fund. Income from revenues collected
will be expended to off-set the cost of operation, maintenance, and equipment
replacement for the facility and the cost of capital-related expenditures.
         E. Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be
administered in accordance with the provisions of this Section.
      Subd. 2. Determination of Sewer Service Charges.
         A. All users of the wastewater treatment works shall be identified as
belonging to one of the following user classes. The allocation of users to
these classes for the purpose of assessing sewer service charges shall be the
responsibility of the City Administrator. Allocation of all users to user
classes shall be based on the substantive intent of the definitions contained
in this Section. Industrial users discharging segregated domestic strength
waste only can be classified as commercial users for the purpose of rate
determination.
            1. Residential
            2. Commercial
            3. Industrial
            4. Governmental
         B. User Charges. Each user shall be assessed and pay user charges in
proportion to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment works, with a minimum rate for pollutant loadings
being the rate established for domestic strength waste. The charges assessed
users discharging domestic strength waste shall be established proportionately
according to billable wastewater volume.
         C. Capital Recovery Charges. Each user shall be assessed and pay
capital recovery charges in proportion to the user's proportionate contribution
of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment works, with a minimum rate
for pollutant loadings being the rate established for domestic strength waste.
The charges assessed users discharging domestic strength waste shall be
established proportionately according to billable wastewater volume.
         D. Billable Wastewater Volume. Billable wastewater volume shall
generally be calculated as metered water usage throughout the calendar year. If
water usage is not metered or does not provide a reasonable estimate of
billable wastewater volume, the City may:
            1.   Estimate water usage;
            2.   Require that water usage be metered;
            3.   Require monitoring of the wastewater discharge to calculate
billable wastewater volume.
         E. Determination of User Charges. User charges shall consist of a
customer service charge, a volume charge for domestic strength waste and, if
applicable, a surcharge for extra strength waste. Such charges shall be
developed in accordance with the approved Sewer Service Charge System and
computed in accordance with the formula presented below:
            1. User Charge:
               Uc = GSuc + (Vuc x F) + Suc
         Where:   Uc   = User charge.
               CSuc      = Customer service charge per billing
                  Period for O&M administration costs.
               Vuc       = Volume charge per 1,000 gallons
               For O&M costs.
               F      = Billable wastewater volume in 1,000 gallons.
               Suc      = Surcharge(s) for extra strength
                  Waste to recover O&M costs.
            2. Surcharge(s) for Extra Strength Waste:
               Suc = 0.00834 x F x [(CBOD x CBODuc) + (TSS x TSSuc)]
         Where:   Suc       = Surcharge(s) for extra strength
                  Waste to recover O&M costs.
               0.00834    = Conversion factor.
               F      = Billable wastewater volume in 1,000 Gallons.
               CBOD      = Concentration of CBOD5 in excess Of domestic
strength waste.
               CBODuc   = Unit surcharge per pound of CBOD5 for O&M costs.
               TSS      = Concentration of TSS in excess Of domestic strength
waste.
               TSSuc       = Unit surcharge per pound of TSS
                  For O&M costs.
         F. Determination of Capital Recovery Charges. Capital recovery charges
shall consist of a customer service charge, a volume charge for domestic
strength waste and, if applicable, a surcharge for extra strength waste. Such
charges shall be developed in accordance with the approved Sewer Service Charge
System and computed in accordance with the formula presented below:
            1. Capital Recovery Charge:
               CRc = CScr + (Vcr x F) + Scr
         Where:   CRc       = Capital recovery charge.
               Cscr      = Customer service charge per billing period For
capital-related costs.
               Vcr      = Volume charge per 1,000 gallons for Capital-related
costs.
               F      = Billable wastewater volume in 1,000 gallons.
               Scr      = Surcharge(s) for extra strength waste
                  To recover capital-related costs.
            2. Surcharge(s) to Extra Strength Waste:
               Scr = 0.00834 x F x [(CBOD x CBODcr) = (TSS x TSScr)]
         Where:   Suc      = Surcharge(s) for extra strength waste To recover
capital-related costs.
               0.00834   = Conversion factor.
               F      = Billable wastewater volume in 1,000 gallons.
               CBOD      = Concentration of CBOD5 in excess of domestic
strength waste.
               CBODcr   = Unit surcharge per pound of CBOD5
                  For capital-related costs.
               TSS      = Concentration of TSS in excess of
                  Domestic strength waste.
               TSSuc      = Unit surcharge per pound of TSS
                  For capital-related costs.
         G. Determination of Sewer Service Charges. Sewer service charges shall
be computed for each user in accordance with the formula presented below:
         SSC   = Uc + CRc
   Where:   SSC      = Sewer service charge
         Uc      = User charge
         CRc      = Capital recovery charge.
         H. The sewer service charges established in this Section shall not
prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge extra
strength waste or wastes of unusual character, or contractual agreements with
such users, as along as the following conditions are met:
            1. The user pays O&M costs in proportion to the user's
proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment
works and no user is charged at a rate less than that of domestic strength
waste.
            2. The measurement of such wastes are conducted according to the
latest edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater" in a manner acceptable to the City as provided for in this Section.
            3. A study of unit costs of collection and treatment processes
attributable to flow, CBOD5, TSS and other significant loadings shall be
developed for determining the proportionate allocation of costs to flows and
loadings for users discharging extra strength wastes or wastes of unusual
character.
      Subd. 3. Determination of Sewer Charges (Non-Metered).
         A. Users of the City's wastewater treatment works shall be permitted
into one of the following classes. Charges to users that discharge NDSW will be
calculated on the basis of equivalent residential unit (ERU's). Determination
of the number of ERUs assigned to a particular connection, shall be the
responsibility of the City and shall be based on calculated flow.
            1. Residential
            2. Commercial
            3. Industrial
            4. Governmental
         B. The Sewer Service Charge shall consist of a user charge for
Operation, Maintenance, Replacement, and a charge for debt service. These
charges will be determined as follows.
         C. Determination of User Charges. The following tables shall be used
as a guide determining the number of EPU's for various classes.
TABLE I: Equivalent Residential Units (EPU's) for Various Residential
Dwellings:
Single person dwellings               .65    unit
Single family homes, townhouses & duplexes      1.0    unit
Mobile homes                   .65    unit
TABLE II: Equivalent Residential Units (ERU's) for Various Commercial. Public
and Institutional Facilities:
Minimum use retail                  .85    unit
Beauty shops, Post Office, Churches         1.10   unit
Office bldgs, Clinic                  2.62   unit
Public bldgs, Manufacturing            3.69   unit
Board & Care, Nursing home            5.78   unit
Hospital                     7.26   unit
Motels - per unit                   .42   unit
   Annual User Charge Rate per ERU
         UC/ERU =    OMtR
         Total ERU's
   Where:   UC       = User Charge
         OM+R    = Total Annual OM&R costs
         ERU      = Equivalent Residential Units
         Total ERU's    = Total number of ERU's connected
                  To the treatment facility
            1. Users may appeal the number of ERU's assigned to a particular
connection by installing and maintaining at their own expense water meters of a
type approved by the City.
            2. The City may require non-residential and industrial users to
install water meters for the purpose of determining wastewater volume.
            3. The sewer service charges established in this Section shall not
prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge wastes in
concentrations exceeding NDSW or wastes of unusual character, or contractual
agreements with such users as long as the following conditions are met:
               (a) The user pays OM&P costs in proportion to the users
proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and loadings, and no user is
charged at a rate less than that charged for NDSW.
               (b) The testing of wastes is conducted according to the latest
edition of "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater", in a
manner acceptable to the City as provided for in this Section.
         D. Recovery of Local Construction Costs. Local construction costs for
the wastewater treatment facility will be recovered through ad valorem taxes or
through a per connection charge based on the total annual debt service and the
total number of connections as follows:
         Debt Service Charge:
            DC = ADC
               TC
      Where:      DC   = Annual debt charge per connection
               ADC   = Annual debt cost
                TC   = Total connections
         E. Sewer Service Charge. The sewer service charge will consist of the
total of the user charge and the debt service charge. A study of unit costs of
collection and treatment attributable to flow, BOD, TSS and other significant
loadings shall be developed for determining the proportionate allocation of
costs to flows and loading for users discharging greater than NDSW or wastes of
unusual character.
            SSC   = Sewer Service charge
            Uc    = User Charge
            Dc   = Debt Service Charge
      Subd. 4. Establishment of a Sewer Service Fund.
         A. The City hereby establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the Sewer Service Charge System, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement, and capital
recovery costs of the wastewater treatment works, including special charges,
fees, and assessments. The City also establishes the following accounts as
income and expenditure accounts within the Sewer Service Fund:
            1. Operation and Maintenance Account
            2. Equipment Replacement Account
            3. Capital Recovery Account
         B. All revenue generated by the Sewer Service Charge System and all
other income pertinent to the treatment works shall be held by the City Clerk
separate and apart from all other funds of the City. Funds received by the
Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the Operation and Maintenance
Account, the Equipment Replacement Account, and the Capital Recovery Account in
accordance with State and Federal regulations and the provisions of this
Section.
         C. Revenue generated by the Sewer Service Charge System sufficient to
insure adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the wastewater treatment works shall be held separate and apart in
the Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in
the Equipment Replacement Account.
         D. Revenue generated by the Sewer Service Charge System sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account. Interest income generated by the Operation and Maintenance
Account shall remain in the Operation and Maintenance Account.
         E. Revenue generated by the Sewer Service Charge System for capital-
related expenditures shall be held separate and apart in the Capital Recovery
Account. Interest income generated by the Capital Recovery Account shall remain
in the Capital Recovery Account.
      Subd. 5. Administration.
         A. The Sewer Service Charge System and Sewer Service Fund shall be
administered according to the following provisions:
            1. The Administrator shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and capital-related costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the Council
with a report of such costs annually in October.
            2. The Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the treatment works, and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for capital-related purposes. The Council will also
determine whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user
in accordance with Subd. 1 of this Section and Section 204(b)(2)(A) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended.
            3. The City shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the
year, re-assess and, as necessary, revise the Sewer Service Charge System then
in use to insure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the
sufficiency of funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the
facilities were constructed, and to accommodate the capital needs of the
system.
         B. In accordance with Federal and State requirements, each user will
be notified annually, in conjunction with a regular billing, of that portion of
the sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance, and
replacement.
         C. In accordance with Federal and State requirements, the City Clerk
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the Sewer Service Charge System adopted.
         D. Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a monthly
basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due
on the last business day of the month the bill was delivered. Any bill not paid
in full by the due date will be considered delinquent and subject to any
penalty policy adopted by the City for delinquent utility bills.
         E. The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
such premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the City only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
City.
         F. Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of said
wastes, at no expense to the City.
      Subd. 6. Penalties.
         A. Upon determination that a user has violated or is violating
applicable provisions of this Section, Section 3.30, or related permits, the
authorized representative may issue a Notice of Violation. Within 10 days of
such notification, the violator shall submit to the authorized representative
an adequate explanation for the violation and a plan for the correction and
prevention of such occurrences, including specific actions required. Submission
of such a plan in no way relieves the violator of liability for any violations
occurring before or after the issuance of the Notice of Violation.
Source: Ordinance No. 323
Effective Date: 10-08-1993
         B. Any violation of this Section or of Section 3.30,is a misdemeanor
subject to punishment by a fine not to exceed $700.00 and up to 90 days in the
County jail. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense.
Source: Ordinance No. 346
Effective Date: 10-24-1997
         C. To collect delinquent sewer service charge accounts, the community
or sewer district may file a civil action suit or levy a lien against the
violator. Related attorneys fees fixed by Court order shall also be collected.
The violator shall be liable for interest an all balances at a rate of 8
percent annually.
         D. Any person violating any of the provisions of this Section or of
Section 3.30 shall become liable to the City for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the community or sewer district by reason of such violation.
      Subd. 7. Validity. The Sewer Service Charge System shall take precedence
over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts which are inconsistent
with the requirements of Section 204 (b)(1)(A) of the Act and Federal
Regulation 40 CFR (Code of Federal Regulations) 35.2140 of the Environmental
Protection Agency's grant regulations.
Source: Ordinance No. 323
Effective Date: 10-08-1993
SEC. 3.32. ESTABLISHMENT OF A STORM WATER UTILITY.
      Subd. 1. Establishment. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 444.075,
the City hereby establishes a storm water drainage utility to be a part of the
Public Works Department and under the administration of the Public Works
Director, and authorizes imposition of just and reasonable utility fees for the
use and availability of storm sewer facilities.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Budget" - The budget of the storm water utility. The budget shall
include yearly operating and maintenance costs, capital costs, debt service,
and amounts necessary to meet unanticipated costs.
         2. "Capital costs" - Costs reasonably incurred in connection with
providing capital improvements to the system or any portion thereof, including
but not limited to:
            A. Acquisition of all property, real or personal, and all interests
in connection therewith, including all rights of way and easements therefor;
            B. Physical construction, installation and testing, including the
costs of labor, service, materials supplies, and utility services used in
connection therewith;
            C. Architectural, engineering, legal and other professional
services;
            D. Expenses of obtaining permits or approvals before construction
or other project charges which become due during construction; and
            E. Any miscellaneous expenses incidental to the project.
         3. "Debt service" - The principal and interest necessary to pay an
indebtedness of the City related to the storm water utility in any year.
         4. "Director" - The Director of Public Works or the Director's
designee.
         5. "Dwelling unit" - A single unit that provides complete, independent
living facilities for one or more persons including permanent provision for
living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
         6. "Equivalent residential unit" or "ERU" - The average impervious
area of residential property per dwelling unit located within the City.
         7. "ERU rate: - A utility fee charged on each ERU as established by
resolution as provided herein.
         8. "Impervious areas" - Roofed and paved areas, all parking lots
including those surfaced in gravel, roofs, roof extensions, patios, porches,
sidewalks, and athletic courts.
         9. "Non-residential property" - Developed property that is classified
as commercial/industrial and governmental/institutional. Property that has a
mixture of residential and non-residential uses shall be considered non-
residential.
         10. "Operating and maintenance costs" - The current or accrued
expenses of operation, maintenance and current repair of the system, as
calculated in accordance with sound accounting practices, and includes, without
limitation, administrative expenses, labor, the cost of material and supplies
used for current operations.
         11. "Residential property" - Developed property that is classified by
the City Assessor as land use Types 1, 4 and 2a pursuant to Minnesota Statutes,
Section 273.13.
         12. "Storm water drainage system" or "system" - The existing
constructed and natural stormwater drainage facilities and channels of the City
and all improvements thereto which are the property and responsibility of the
utility, to be operated by the utility to, among other things, control
discharges necessitated by rainfall events, incorporate methods to prevent or
reduce flooding, over-drainage, environmental degradation and water pollution
or otherwise affect the quality and quantity of discharge from such system.
         13. "Storm water utility" or "utility" - The utility created by this
Section to operate, maintain and improve the storm water drainage system.
         14. "Utility fee" - A utility fee authorized by Minnesota law and this
Section which is established to pay for operations and maintenance, extension
and replacement and debt service.
      Subd. 3. Rates and Charges.
         A. The storm water utility shall charge utility fees as provided in
this Section to recover from users and persons benefitting from the system the
capital cost debt service, operation and maintenance costs of storm water
facilities in the City.
         B. Utility fees shall be based upon the amount of impervious area on
the user's property and shall be computed as provided in this Section. Each
parcel of property within the City shall be categorized as residential, non-
residential, or undeveloped property. The utility fees for each type of
property shall be as follows:
            1. The utility fee for residential property shall be the ERU rate
multiplied by the number of dwelling units existing on the property;
            2. The utility fee for non-residential property shall be the ERU
rate multiplied by the numerical factor obtained by dividing the total
impervious area for a non-residential property by one ERU square footage. The
minimum utility fee for any non-residential shall be equal to one ERU rate.
            3. Undeveloped parcels of land shall be exempt from the utility
fee.
         C. The Council shall, by resolution, adopt the utility fee rate per
ERU.
         D. The City shall gather impervious area data on residential property
within the City and calculate an ERU value. The utility fees shall be based on
this ERU value. In determining the ERU value, the City shall not be required to
measure and consider all residential property in the City, but shall consider a
reasonable sample representing areas throughout the City. The City shall
further investigate non-residential properties within the City to determine the
impervious area on such property. The determination of impervious area made by
the City shall be conclusive unless modified by the adjustment procedure set
forth in this Section. The City shall endeavor to investigate and reestablish
an ERU value for the City every five years after the effective date of this
Section.
         E. Public rights of way shall be exempt from utility fees.
         F. The utility fees established by this Section are the joint and
several responsibility of the owner, lessee and the occupant of each lot or
parcel subject to the fee. The City shall prepare monthly bills to be sent for
each lot or parcel and shall develop a billing and collection system for said
fees. Bills may be combined with other City utility bills. The Council may
provide for penalties and interest for late payments in the resolution
establishing the utility fee rate.
         G. Delinquent utility fees shall be collected as provided in Minnesota
Statutes, Section 444.075, Subd. 3, in the same manner as taxes against the
property and may also be collected in an action at law against the owner,
lessee, or the occupant of the parcel. On or before August 1 of each year, the
City Clerk shall prepare and certify the delinquent utility fee roll to the
Council. The City Clerk shall send notice by first class mail to the apparent
owner of each lot or parcel of land and any other party known to have a legal
interest in the property stating the amount of the utility fee due, a
description of the property, that the utility fees are due and payable before
October 1 of that year, and that the delinquent utility fee roll is on file in
the office of the City Clerk. If the Council finds the roll to be proper and
correct, it shall by resolution confirm the roll on or before October 1. The
confirming resolution shall contain a collection fee added to each amount due
to reimburse the City for its administrative costs of collection. On or before
the tenth day of October each year, the City Treasurer shall file with the
County Auditor a certified statement of all delinquent utility fees under this
Section, describing the land affected and giving the amount of the fee, with a
five percent penalty added, for collection with real estate taxes in the
following year pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 444.075, Subd. 3. In
addition, the City shall have the right to bring a civil action or take legal
remedies to collect unpaid fees.
      Subd. 4. Utility Fee Adjustments.
         A. Any individual liable for the payment of storm water utility fees
on non-residential property may, subject to the limitations set forth in this
Subdivision, apply to the Director for a utility fee adjustment if the
individual believes the utility fee to be incorrect. The request for adjustment
shall be made in writing and shall state in detail, the grounds upon which
relief is sought. The Administrator or Director of Public Works may require the
applicant for relief to submit, at applicant's expense, supplemental
information including, but not limited to survey data certified by a registered
land surveyor and engineering reports certified by a registered professional
engineer. The Administrator or Director may grant an adjustment if it is found
that:
            1. A substantial error was made in the calculation of the
impervious area on the non-residential property;
            2. The storm water runoff from the property never enters any
facility of the stormwater drainage system;
            3. The property is subject to storm water management practices that
significantly improve the quantity or quality of the stormwater runoff from the
property.
         B. Adjustments and denials of adjustments shall be made in writing by
the Administrator or Director. No adjustment shall be made retroactively,
except for initial appeals filed within six months of the effective date of
this Section.
         C. Any person denied an adjustment may appeal the denial to the
Council by filing written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 30 days
of receipt of the decision. The Council shall hear the appeal and affirm,
modify, or reverse the decision of the Director, applying the standards for
granting an adjustment set forth in this Section.
Source: Ordinance No. 361
Effective Date: 02-05-1999
(Sections 3.33 through 3.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 3.40. RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO ELECTRIC SERVICE.
      Subd. 1. Code Requirement. All wiring, connections and appurtenances
shall be installed and performed strictly in accordance with the National
Electrical Code. Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance
therewith, or failure to have or permit required inspections shall, upon
discovery by the City, be an additional ground for termination of electrical
service to any consumer.
      Subd. 2. Services. New or changed service installations shall be made at
the expense of the consumer, placed underground where designated by the City,
and the meter location shall also be designated by the City. Overhead service
installations may be permitted by the City (1) temporarily during new
construction; (2) temporarily during an emergency to prevent danger to persons
or property; or (3) when the City determines it to be in the best interests of
all parties.
      Subd. 3. Electrical Installations. All electrical installations shall
comply with the following, where applicable:
         A. Motors of 20 HP or more must have line compensators on same.
Provided, however, that the City may, at its option, make an exception if the
total connected motor load required is smaller than the consumer connected
load, and the motor starting current is less than the current corresponding to
the consumer's total connected load.
         B. Any establishment having a total motor load of 125 HP or more is
required to have 480 volts for its motor load.
         C. All motor installations of less than 5 HP shall be supplied with
240 volt single phase energy, except motors of 1/2 HP or smaller may be 120
volt.
         D. The City shall make an installation charge for extraordinary
expenses required by a consumer.
      Subd. 4. Replacing or Converting to Underground.
         A. Converting to Underground. The City may, at its option and at its
expense, convert any present service where no change is otherwise required by
the consumer, from overhead to underground. Where this is done, the City shall
only cover and refill the trench and other ditching maintenance or repair, and
all subsequent changing and repairing of the service shall be the obligation of
the consumer.
         B. Replacing. Nothing herein shall prevent the City from replacing an
overhead service with the same type.
         C. Meters and Placement Service. Placement of services and meters
shall be determined by the City.
      Subd. 5. Additional Rules and Regulations. The Council may, by
resolution, adopt such additional rules and regulations relating to
residential, commercial and industrial installations. Copies of such additional
rules and regulations shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator, and uniformly enforced.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 3.41 through 3.49, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 3.50. RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO NATURAL GAS SERVICE.
      Subd. 1. Gas Inspections. The inspections required under the provisions
of this Section shall be conducted by a trained employee of the City working in
the Gas Department. The word "gas" whenever used in this Section means natural
gas.
      Subd. 2. Installations Shall Not Be Put Into Operation Until Inspected;
Unlawful Acts.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to put into operation any gas space
heating appliance installed or replaced under the provisions of this Section
until the installation and replacement has been inspected and approved by the
Building Inspection Department.
         B. The Building Inspection Department is hereby authorized to
discontinue or to order disconnection of any gas appliance, accessory or gas
piping which does not conform to the requirements of this Section or which may
be found defective and in such condition as to endanger life or property. Where
such disconnection has been made, a notice shall be attached to such appliance,
accessory, or gas piping which shall state that it has been disconnected and
the reasons therefor, and such notice shall not he removed nor shall the
appliance, accessory or gas piping be reconnected until it shall have been made
to conform with the requirements of this Section and its reconnection
authorized by the Building Inspection Department.
      Subd. 3. Records of Permits and Inspections. The Building Inspection
Department shall keep complete records of all permits issued and inspections
made and other official work performed.
      Subd. 4. Limiting Liability of City. The City does not assume any
liability for injuries to persons or property by reason of any defect in said
appliances or the installation thereof, by reason of the inspection and permits
authorized therein.
      Subd. 5. Gas Burner Installations - 400,000 BTU and Smaller.
         A. Scope. The construction, arrangement, manner of installation,
alteration and repair of all gas burners, gas burner equipment and appliances
as herein defined having an input capacity of 400,000 BTU per hour or less,
shall conform to the provisions of this Section.
         B. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
            1. "Gas Burners and Gas Burner Equipment":
               (a) "Gas Burner" - A device for the final conveyance of gas or a
mixture of gas and air to the combustion zone of a steam or hot water boiler,
furnace, or to any device or appliance used in connection with a space heating
system, and includes conversion burner, gas designed heating appliances, power
gas burners and atmospheric gas burners.
               (b) "Gas Burner Equipment" - Includes gas burners as above
defined, together with all fans, flue pipes, blowers, control devices,
accessories connected to the burners, and piping involved to supplying the
burner.
            2. "Conversion Burner" - A gas burning appliance designed to supply
gaseous fuel to and properly burn same in the combustion chamber of a boiler,
furnace or other device originally designed to burn another fuel.
            3. "Gas Designed Heating Appliance" - Any space heating appliance
designed for the exclusive use of gaseous fuel, excepting such auxiliary
heaters as gas logs, radiant heaters, etc.
            4. "Power Gas Burner" - A device in which either gas or air or both
are supplied at pressure exceeding, for gas the house line pressure and for
air, atmospheric pressure.
            5. "Atmospheric Burner" - A device (other than a gas range or a gas
water heater) in which air, at atmospheric pressure, is injected into the
burner by a jet of gas under pressure and whose input exceeds fifty thousand
(50,000) BTU per hour.
         C. Approval of Gas Burners. It is unlawful for any person, firm,
corporation or agent to install any gas burner such as defined until such
burner has been approved by the Building Inspection Department.
            1. Applications for approval of gas burners shall be filed with the
Building Inspection Department accompanied by a filing fee as set by Council
resolution and shall be made upon the form prescribed by the Building
Inspection Department with. full information respecting the burner for which
approval is requested.
            2. No gas burner as defined herein shall be approved for use in the
City unless it shall fully comply with the requirements for approval set forth
in this Section and unless it has been approved by the American Gas Association
or other laboratory approved by the Building Inspection Department which is
hereby authorized at its discretion to require the applicant to submit a report
of inspection and test of the burner from an approved laboratory. The Building
Inspection Department reserves the right to submit any gas burner, for which
approval is requested, to such inspection and test as it may deem necessary to
determine compliance with requirements of this Section, including arrangements
of parts, suitability of material, strength of parts, type of controls,
reliability of automatic features, positiveness of ignition and accessibility
for servicing.
            3. The approval by the Building Inspection Department of a gas
burner under this Section shall be evidenced by the issuance of a certificate
of approval permitting its installation in the. This certificate of approval
shall remain in force until or unless the burner approved is so modified or
altered as to no longer conform to the specifications on the basis of which
such certificate of approval was originally issued.
            4. Whenever a gas burner is modified or altered from the basis upon
which the certificate of approval was issued, approval of such modification or
alteration shall be secured from the Building Inspection Department before any
such modified or altered burner is installed. Violation of this provision shall
constitute sufficient cause for a revocation of the certificate of approval of
such burner. Where the modification or alteration of the burner is of such
nature as to materially affect its operation, the Building Inspection
Department may require the filing of a. new application for approval and
subject the burner to inspection and test.
         D. Approval Requirements for Conversion Burners and Gas Designed
Appliances. Gas Burners for which approval is requested shall conform to the
latest approval and listing requirements of the American Standards Association
sponsored by the American Gas Association together with the requirements of
this Section.
            1. Heating Elements, Construction of. The construction of heating
elements shall be subject to the approval of the Building Inspection
Department.
            2. Accessibility. Accessibility for cleaning combustion chambers
and flue gas passageways shall be readily accessible for inspection and
cleaning.
            3. Pilots. The gas supply line to the pilot or pilots shall be
connected ahead of the main burner regulator and appliances shut-off valve and
shall be provided with a separate cock.
               (a) Pilot tubes shall be constructed in one piece of substantial
material.
               (b) The safety pilot actuating mechanism shall be so mounted as
to preclude the possibility of slippage.
               (c) The pilot shall be of such design that it will permit the
gas valve to open only when a proven source of ignition exists.
               (d) The flame that lights the burner ports shall light from the
flame that heats the safety pilots without use of runner or slotted connecting
ports on any installation which does not make use of escapement gas, from a
diaphragm shut-off valve, as a flare to assist in the lighting of the burner.
               (e) Appliances having more than one combustion chamber shall be
provided with individual safety pilots.
               (f) The safety pilot actuating mechanism must be substantial and
positive in its action. Design shall be such that mechanical or electrical
failure will shut off main gas supply.
            4. Burners. Drilled port or slotted port burners shall have
adjustable primary air control. The orifice may be of either the fixed or
adjustable type. If of the adjustable type, the reduction of the size of the
orifice opening shall not be attained by obstructing the fixed orifice opening.
            5. Capacity. Burners shall be sized according to the BTU rating
shown in the regularly published literature of the burner manufacturer and
under no conditions shall the burner be altered to exceed the rated maximum BTU
input. Before approval, the burner manufacturer shall furnish the Building
Inspection Department with a certified copy of literature showing capacity of
burners with maximum ratings at various pressures together with such other
information as the Building Inspection Department may require.
         E. Installation of Used Gas Burners. It is unlawful to install any
used gas burner and no permit shall be issued authorizing such installation
until the licensed installer shall have first submitted with his/her
application for order stating that a used burner is to he installed and bearing
an acknowledgment by the purchaser that such is the case together with a
statement by the licensed installer that said burner has been reconditioned and
will comply in every way with requirements of this Section for new equipment as
to operation, safety standards and adjustments. No used gas burner shall be
installed unless it is of a type, make and model currently approved for
installation in the City as evidenced by a certificate of approval.
         F. Type of Gas. The requirements of this Section shall apply to gas
burners supplied with natural gas from the general distribution system with the
City. Burners and their installation where supplied with other types of gas,
such as bottled or liquefied petroleum gas shall conform to the requirements of
this Section where applicable together with the requirements of the American
Gas Association and the National Board of Fire Underwriters pertaining to the
type of gas to be used.
         G. Ventilation. Gas burners and gas burning appliances as hereinbefore
defined shall not be installed for operation in a room where the normal
facilities for ventilation do not permit proper combustion of the gas, unless
special provision is made for supplying sufficient air for complete combustion.
         H. Prohibited Places. Gas burners, gas burner appliances and space
heaters will not be permitted in bedrooms, rooms used for sleeping purposes,
bathrooms, or any confined space or area unless proper provisions are made for
the supply of primary and secondary air and air for combustion from outside the
building. Provisions shall also he made for proper venting to the outside.
Method of securing air for combustion and the proper venting of the appliances
shall be secured from the Building Inspection Department before work is started
on any specific installation.
         I. Installation of Conversion Burners, Gas Designed Appliances, and
Controls. The installation of conversion burners shall be made in conformance
with American Standard Requirements for Installation of Domestic Gas Conversion
Burners ASA-Z 21.8-1948, sponsored by the American Gas Association, dated
September 21, 1948, and with the requirements herein set forth.
         J. Preparation of Existing Heating Plants.
            1. Boiler of Furnace. Before a gas burner is installed in any
existing boiler or furnace, all flues, fire pots, combustion chambers and
connecting joints through which flue gases are conducted, shall be thoroughly
cleared, examined for leaks and draft conditions and made as tight as shown by
a smoke bomb test or its equivalent.
            2. Flues and Flue Pipes. The chimney flue and flue pipe shall be
examined and reconditioned if necessary so that they will freely conduct the
flue gases to the outer air. Where flue pipes are rusted or burned out, they
shall he replace d by new pipe.
            3. Removal of Oil Burners. Where a conversion gas burner is
installed and an oil burner is removed, it shall be mandatory that the vent and
fill pipes to the storage tank be removed and all openings to the storage tank
plugged.
         K. Draft Hoods. Each gas burning appliance shall be equipped with a
draft hood or its equivalent designed to:
            1. Insure the ready escape of the products of combustion in the
event of no draft, back draft, or stoppage beyond the appliance.
            2. Prevent a back draft from entering the appliance.
            3. Neutralize the effects of stack action of the flue upon the
operation of the appliance. The draft hood shall be placed in and made a part
of the flue pipe from the appliance itself. Such device shall have a free area
equal to or greater than the cross-sectional area of the flue pipe connected
thereto subject to the approval of the Building Inspection Department.
            4. The draft hood shall be located at a point not lower than the
top of the highest flue passage in the appliance.
            5. Appliances of the revertible flue type shall have the draft hood
at 1east one foot higher than the top of the highest flue passage. Proper
provision shall be made, subject to the approval of the Building Inspection
Department to prevent the accumulation of gas in any part thereof. Revertible
flue type furnaces shall have a two (2) inch bleeder cut through if trapped
more than twelve (12) inches.
         L. Flue Pipes, Size Of. The internal cross-section area of the flue
pipe between the appliance and the chimney liner shall be such as to provide
not less than one square inch of flue area per 7,500 hourly BTU input. In no
case shall this flue pipe be less than five (5) inches in diameter for central
heating gas appliances nor less than four (4) inches in diameter for space
heating appliances and it shall not be larger than the next integral inch
diameter above the size given in the following table. Based on 1 square inch
flue area per 7,500 BTU per hour input. In cases where the outlet from the
appliance is larger then the above indicated size, an orifice plat may be
inserted, or a section of the flue pipe restricted to the size indicated. In
special cases with high chimneys or flues, the following schedule of areas may
be modified subject to specific approval of the Building Inspection Department.
   MINIMUM PERMISSIBLE FLUE SIZES
   FOR GAS BURNER INSTALLATIONS
   Input Rating          Area of         Diameter of
   B.T.U.            Flue Outlet          Flue Pipe
   Per Hour           Sq. In.           Inches
    94,500          12.6          4
    147,000          19.6          5
    212,450          28.3          6
    288,750          38.5          7
    377,250          50.3          8
    477,000          63.6          9
   NOTE: If flue pipe exceeds 10 feet in length of contains more than two
elbows, use next size larger pipe and draft hood.
            1. The draft hood should ordinarily be located adjacent to the
appliance. In cases where in appears desirable to place the draft hood at a
distance from the appliance, the size of the restricted section may be modified
according to the length and rise of the flue pipe.
            2. The proportioned section of the flue outlet of the appliance
eliminates the necessity of using an adjustable damper in the flue pipe and
such damper will not be permitted.
            3. Where dampers are an integral part of the boiler or furnace,
they shall be removed or permanently secured in the side opening position,
except such dampers the function of which is to alter the passage of flue gases
through the appliances, which shall be locked in such position as not to
interfere with normal operation of the burners.
            4. Material used for flue pipe shall be such as to resist the
corrosive action of flue gases.
            5. Flue pipe or existing systems shall be relocated where necessary
and new flue pipe installations shall be so made as to avoid sharp turns or
other constructional features which would create excessive resistance to the
flow of flue gases. Flue pipes shall slope upward to chimney.
            6. Flue pipe shall be tightly connected to the chimney liner, so as
to prevent infiltration of cold air.
            7. No baffles shall be applied which will interfere with the proper
combustion of the gas.
            8. Flue pipe shall be well supported to prevent sagging and shall
not be installed closer then six (6) inches to any combustible building
materials unless flue pipe is covered with tin incombustible insulation such
that the surface temperature of the exterior surface thereof attain a
temperature not higher than one hundred twenty-five (125 ) degrees Fahrenheit
when the appliance is under continuous operation.
            9. All room heating equipment shall be of the vented type and
properly vented to an effective flue. Room heaters shall have one hundred
(100%) per cent shutoff.
            10. Radiant heaters or other unvented heaters of less than 25,000
BTU input may be installed in fireplaces providing the chimney has a positive
draft with the damper closed.
         M. Gas Burners. Gas burners of all types shall consist of assembled
and tested units and shall be accompanied by complete and comprehensive
installation and operation instructions. The burner or burners shall be located
according to the manufacturer's instructions and shall be so secured that they
will not twist, slide or drop out of position.
            1. The burners shall be so installed as to be readily accessible
for cleaning and inspection.
            2. The burner or burners shall be so installed that no part of the
flame impinge on the heating surface so as to cause incomplete combustion.
            3. Air shutters shall be adjusted to produce a proper flame at the
prevailing gas pressure.
            4. On all pre-mix power burners an approved type of check valve
shall be installed in the gas supply line to prevent back flow of air into the
gas line.
         N. Air Intake. Where secondary air is necessary, secondary air opening
or openings shall be provided, of sufficient area to supply an adequate amount
of air for complete combustion under the specified draft conditions and at the
maximum rate of firing.
            1. Where an automatic secondary air control is provided the
construction shall be such that, in case the control fails in any way, either
the gas will shut off or the secondary air door will remain open.
            2. The air intake of power burners shall be so located as to
prevent the possibility of accidental closure. The gas and air supply shall be
equipped with controls coordinated to prevent opening of the gas supply until
the air supply is adequate for proper combustion and to shut off the gas supply
in the event of failure of the air supply.
         O. Pilots. Each gas burner shall be equipped with a safety device
arranged to prevent the flow of gas through the main burner unless the pilot
flame is burning; to consist of a thermostatic pilot or other similar type of
safety device. The operation of this device shall not depend upon the closing
of an electric circuit to shut off the main gas supply,
            1. Pilot burners shall be rigidly supported in such a manner that
their position relative to the main burner or burners will be fixed.
            2. Pilot burner or burners shall be so placed that they can be
safely lighted and they shall be readily accessible or removable for cleaning.
            3. Pilot lines shall be connected to vertical main gas supply lines
or to the side or top of horizontal lines ahead of all controls including
pressure regulators and appliance shut off, and shall be provided with a
separate cock.
            4. Thermostatic safety pilots shall be so adjusted that main gas
supply will be shut off within three (3) minutes after pilot flame has been
extinguished under continuous operating conditions.
            5. All pilot lights shall have a filter and a pressure regulator in
the pilot supply line to each unit.
            6. Pilot burners shall be so designed and positioned that the
holding flame on the pilot burner will ignite the gas burner providing the
lighting pilot does not function.
         P. Main Shut-Off Valve or Cock. A manually operated approved shutoff
valve or cock shall be installed at each appliance to shut off the entire gas
supply to the appliance, except the pilot, in cases of emergency. Such valve or
cock shall be located that it is readily accessible and shall clearly indicate
the "on" and "off" positions, or directions of rotation to open or close. Where
a cock is provided the operating handle shall be securely attached to the plug
in such manner that it may not be readily removed. Shut off cock shall be
approximately five (5) feet above floor and shall be outside the jacket.
         Q. Electric Control Valves. Electric control valves shall be installed
according to the instructions furnished by the manufacturer. All heating
equipment shall be automatically controlled by thermostats except with respect
to radiant heaters installed in fireplaces.
         R. Electric Wiring. All electrical connections shall be made by a
licensed electrician.
         S. Gas Pressure Regulations. A gas pressure regulator approved by
A.G.A. and by the Building Inspection Department shall be installed on all gas
burner installations. The gas pressure regulator vent shall be piped. into the
combustion chamber.
         T. Limiting Devices. The boiler or furnace shall be equipped with
safety devices arranged to limit high steam pressures or water temperatures, as
well as high air temperatures in warm air furnaces, and all such devices shall
be subject to the approval of the Building Inspection Department.
            1. Each gas fired steam boiler shall be equipped with a low-water
cut-off, approved by the Building Inspection Department.
            2. Safety devices operated electrically shall not depend upon the
closing of a circuit to shut off the main gas supply. This requirement shall
not be construed as prohibiting the use of electrical regulating devices,
provided the required safety devices are also installed. Controls shall be so
connected that maximum inherent safety provided by such controls will be
attained.
         U. Safety Shut-Off Valves. Safety shut-off valves shall be tested to
assure gas tightness of the seat when in the closed position; the valve
assembly shall be gas-tight in all positions. Packing glands shall he designed
so that the valve will not be made inoperative by excessive tightening of the
packing nut. Either the valve shall incorporate means for requiring a manual
operation for re-opening of the valve after it has closed or the electrical
circuit shall be so arranged as to require a manual operation to re-open the
valve after it has been closed. In no case shall valves be able to be opened
manually until safety pilots are lighted and circuit completed or low water
cut-off circuit has been completed.
         V. Piping. Gas piping installed for serving conversion burners or gas
designed heating appliances shall be sized for a total pressure drop not
exceeding 0.3 inches water gauge from the meter to the burner for the total
connected load. A separate pipe from the meter is to be preferred and in no
case shall the service pipe be smaller than the size of equipment connection.
All gas piping shall be installed in conformance with the provisions of this
Subparagraph:
            1. All gas piping and fittings from the meter to the gas appliances
shall be standard weight new wrought iron or steel.
            2. All piping shall be screwed, flared, flanged, compression
fittings or welded. Such screwed joints shall be made up with a thread compound
or dope applied to the male threads only. Such compounds shall be resistant to
the action of the gas or gas-air mixture.
            3. All piping shall be installed in a good workmanship manner with
proper hangers or supports approximately every eight (8) feet apart so that the
proper alignment will be retained. No soldered or sweat joints or cast iron
fittings shall be permitted. Weaving or crooked gas piping shall not be
approved.
            4. Gas piping shall be of a size and so installed so as to provide
a supply of gas sufficient to meet maximum demand without undue loss of
pressure between the meter and the appliances. All gas piping shall be
installed so as to conform with American Gas Association standards.
            5. All piping shall be graded 1/4 inch per 10 feet, from the meter.
A drip shall be installed at all low points. All pipes or tubing shall be
tested after installation and proved free from leaks at not less than normal
operating pressures. Tests shall not be made with a flame, air may be used for
testing or by other approved methods. When appliances are moved the piping
shall be capped. No piping shall be left open at any time.
         W. Chimneys. All chimneys to which a heating plant burning 45,000 BTU
or more is connected shall have a chimney liner which shall conform to current
American Gas Association standards for chimney liners.
         X. Adequacy of Draft. If the draft conditions at the time of
installation are such the chimney or vertical flue has insufficient natural
draft to properly carry away the products of combustion or is subject to down
drafts, provisions shall be made by the installer to rectify existing
conditions or provide mechanical means of maintaining constant up-drafts during
appliance operation.
         Y. Adjustment of Burners. After the piping has been thoroughly purged,
the pilot burner shall be lighted and adjusted and the burners put into
operation in accordance with the manufacturers' instructions.
         Z. Pilot Operation. Pilot flames shall effectively ignite the gas at
the main burner or burners and shall be adequately protected from drafts. A
device which, under normal chimney draft conditions, is at least equal in
performance to the draft hood hereinafter provided for, shall be interpreted as
fulfilling the second part of this requirement as far as chimney drafts are
concerned.
            1. Pilot flames shall not become extinguished when the main burner
or burners are turned on or off in a normal manner, either manually or by
automatic controls.
            2. Luminous flame pilots shall not show carbon deposits when
adjusted according to the manufacturers' instructions.
            3. Where escapement pilots are used, their flames shall be freely
ignited by the constant burning pilot.
         AA. Burner Operation. The flames from each burner shall freely ignite
the gas from adjacent burners when operating at the prevailing gas pressure or
when the main control valve is regulated to deliver about one-third the full
gas rate, except where additional pilots are provided. Note: In making the
tests here, care shall be exercised to prevent the accumulation of unburned gas
in the appliance or flue which might result in explosion of fire.
            1. Burner flames shall not flash back upon immediate ignition, nor
upon turning the gas cock until the gas rate to the burner is about one-third
(1/3) the full supply.
            2. Burner flames shall not flash back when the gas is turned on or
off by any automatic control mechanism.
            3. Main burner flames shall ignite freely, from each constant
burning pilot, when the main control valve is regulated to deliver about one-
third (1/3) the full gas rate or when pilot flame is reduced to minimum point
at which it will actuate the safety thermostatic device.
            4. Burners shall be of such design that ignition from pilots or
pilot will carry to all ports or burner heads protected by the pilot at inputs
from one~third (1/3) to maximum rating.
            5. When ignition is made in a normal manner, the flames shall not
flash outside the appliance.
            6. Burners shall not expel gas through air openings in mixer faces
when operating at the prevailing pressure.
         BB. Appliance Performance. The concentration of carbon dioxide shall
not exceed nine (9) percent, and the concentration of carbon monoxide shall not
exceed four hundredth (.04) per cent. The concentration of oxygen in the flue
products shall, in no cases, be less than four (4) per cent, nor more than ten
(10) per cent. The flue gas temperature, as taken on the appliance side of the
draft hood shall not exceed 480 degrees Fahrenheit above that of the air
temperature surrounding the appliance.
            1. Method of Test, Gas Designed Equipment. The rate of flow of the
gas shall be adjusted to within plus or minus two (2) per cent of the required
hourly BTU input rating at the manifold pressure specified by the manufacturer.
When the prevailing pressure is less than the manifold pressure specified, the
gas rate shall be adjusted at the prevailing pressure. The appliance shall be
allowed to operate until the stack temperature becomes stabilized, after which
a sample of the flue products shall be taken at a point in the flue after the
outlet of the appliance but ahead of the draft hood, and analyzed for carbon
dioxide and oxygen.
            2. The rate of flow of gas shall be adjusted to within plus or
minus five (5) per cent of 1.7 times the calculated hourly BTU heat loss of the
buildings in which it is installed. The appliance shall be allowed to operate
until the stack temperature becomes stabilized, after which a sample of the
flue products shall be taken at a point in the flue after the outlet of the
appliance but ahead of the draft hood, and analyzed for carbon dioxide and
oxygen.
            3. The various controls of the appliance shall be checked by both
inspector and installer, to insure their proper operation.
            4. Upon completion of the test of any newly installed gas burning
equipment as hereinabove provided, the installer shall file with the Building
Inspection Department in duplicate, complete records of such test.
         CC. Instructions to the Customers. The customer shall be thoroughly
instructed by the installer as to the proper and safe operation of the
appliance before it is placed in continuous service, and a printed set of
instructions shall be left with the customer. In the absence of the customer,
printed instruction, enclosed in an envelope labeled "Instructions to
Customer," and attached to the main gas valve of the appliance by the installer
shall be construed as having fulfilled the aforementioned requirement.
            1. A metallic plate, suitably etched or stamped, setting forth
detailed instructions for the safe lighting and shutting off of the appliance,
shall be permanently attached to the appliance in a prominent position near the
lighting apertures. The size of the type used shall be not smaller than ten
(10) point and the wording contained thereon shall be subject to the approval
of the Building Inspection Department. This plate shall also state make and
model numbers of the burner and show the rate hourly gas BTU input.
      Subd. 6. Gas Burner Installation - Exceeding 400,000 BTU.
         A. Scope.
            1. The construction, arrangement, manner of installation,
alteration and repair of all gas burners for steam and hot water boilers,
furnaces, industrial, power and process uses shall conform to this Section.
            2. Before approval for installation is granted for initial
installation, plans and specifications and/or official literature and data,
including piping arrangements, type and model of controls, capacities of
equipment, and wiring diagrams shall be submitted to the Building Inspection
Department for preliminary approval, the installation shall then be made
accordingly, and final approval shall not be granted until the equipment has
been tested in the presence of an inspector of the Building Inspection
Department. Such tests shall consist of orsat testing, within acceptable limits
where applicable, pressure regulation, stack temperature, control operation,
pilot turn down flame lockout and such other tests as may be deemed necessary
by the Building Inspection Department.
         B. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
            1. "Gas Burner" - A device for the final utilization of gas, or a
mixture of gas and air in any steam, hot water boiler, furnaces, air heaters
and devices and appliances for power industrial, space heating and process uses
in connection with a heating system or commercial and industrial applications,
and shall include conversion burners, gas designed equipment, power burners,
atmospheric burners; dual fuel burners and process and industrial equipment,
and shall include all auxiliary and equipment accessories including flue pipe
control devices, electric wiring diagrams, piping diagrams, gas controls,
safety controls, and accessories, in connection with equipment and all piping
supplying the equipment with gas, air or mixtures thereof,
            2. "Conversion Burner" - A gas burning device designed to supply
gaseous fuel to and properly burn this fuel in the combustion space of
equipment, originally designed to burn another fuel.
            3. Power Gas Burner" - A power gas burner is one in which either
gas or air or both are supplied at pressures exceeding, for gas, the normal
line pressure at the burner, and for air, atmospheric pressure; the added
pressure being applied at the burner.
            4. "Atmospheric Burner" - A device in which the air at atmospheric
pressure is induced into the burner by a jet of gas under pressure not more
than the house line pressure.
            5. "Dual Fuel Burner" - Those burners designed to burn either gas
or oil but not both simultaneously.
            6. "Gas Designed Equipment" - Equipment designed as an integral
unit for burning gas only as fuel.
            7. "Process and Industrial Equipment" - All gas burning equipment
burning gas or a mixture of gas and air for industrial and process
applications.
            8. "Gas Pressure" - For purposes of this Section, gas supply
pressures shall be classified as follows:
         Low Pressure -- up to and including 14" W.C.
         Medium Pressure -- from 14" W.C. to and inc. 25 p.s.i.g.
         High Pressure -- over 25 p.s.i.g.
         C. General Regulations.
            1. All burners for space heating applications shall be accompanied
by complete and comprehensive operating instructions and wiring diagrams, which
shall be mounted on the equipment, or securely mounted adjacent to the
equipment.
            2. Where burners are equipped with secondary air shutters or
louvers, they must be designed or counter-balanced so as to drop to a wide open
position in the event of failure or breakage of connecting linkage. They shall
also be of sufficient area to supply adequate air for complete combustion under
specified draft conditions and at maximum rate of firing.
            3. The burner or burners shall be located according to the
manufacturer's instructions and shall be so secured that they will not slide,
twist or drop out of position.
            4. The burner or burners shall be so installed as to be readily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
            5. The burner or burners shall be so installed that no part or
flame shall impinge on heating surface so as to cause incomplete combustion.
            6. On all installations where the combustion air pressure can
exceed the house line pressure, an approved check valve or other approved check
valve or other approved device shall be installed in the gas supply line to
prevent air from backing into the gas line.
            7. Under no condition shall the equipment be fired at a capacity
greater or lens than that shown in the official data supplied by the
manufacturer, or at greater or less gas pressure than the maximum or minimum
pressures, as listed by the manufacturer, or as approved by the Building
Inspection Department.
            8. All equipment is to be installed in the basic manner in which
the original approval was obtained, and wiring and piping diagrams shall
accompany each permit application, when the input is 1,000,000 BTU per hour or
more and when different from the original approval or requested by the Bureau.
         D. Piping.
            1. All gas piping under this Section shall be wrought iron or black
steel pipe where applicable with malleable or steel fittings, and shall be
designed so that the pressure drop through the piping does not exceed that
which will supply the proper pressure for the particular application, and shall
be carefully tested for leaks. Adequate drips shall be installed at any point
at which liquid condensate could collect, and such drips shall be readily
accessible for cleaning. Gas piping shall not be supported from other pipes,
and shall be securely hung so that proper grade will be maintained.
            2. Main Shut-Off Cocks. An approved type of main shut-off cock
shall be installed in a readily accessible location for the convenient
operation of the burner and ahead of all other gas controls. When this cock is
two (2) inches in size or, larger, or the gas pressure exceeds fourteen (14)
inch W. C. pressure, it shall be of the lubricated type, and in all cases shall
have a permanently attached handle, which shall clearly indicate the "on" and
"off" position.
            3. Firing Cocks. A firing cock of a suitable type may be installed
downstream of all controls that start and stop the flow of gas to the firing
equipment if desired.
            4. All pilot lines shall be equipped with an approved shut-off
cock.
         E. Combustion Gas Controls.
            1. For a burner or a combination of burners not exceeding 500,000
BTU input per hour, a combustion control of the on and off type may be used.
This control may be of. either the quick opening or slow opening type.
            2. For a burner or a combination burners not exceeding 5,000,000
BYU input per hour, approved on and off types of controls may be used, provided
a slow opening automatic valve of the positive closing time of five (5)
seconds. In addition to the slow opening valve, an approved automatic valve of
the positive closing type shall be installed up the stream of the slow opening
type of valve.
            3. For burners or a combination burners with an input exceeding
5,000,000 BTU per hour, an approved modulation, or high-low type of gas control
must be used in addition to the slow opening and positive gas valves described
in Item 2, above, or an approved combination modulating and slow opening valve.
This modulating or high-low control shall be of a type that controls the firing
rate of the equipment throughout its entire range, and so adjusted that the
minimum firing rate stays within the limit as specified for the equipment .by
the manufacturer, and within the limits of the particular application to which
it is applied.
            4. Modulating controls may use steam, air hydraulic or electricity
as an actuating medium, and shall be so arranged that the gas burning equipment
starts and stops in the minimum firing position, for the particular
application, and suitable means shall be provided to prevent starting of the
main flame until the controls are in the minimum firing position on
installations exceeding 5,000,000 BTU per hour.
            5. Modulating controls that are inter-connected by mechanical
linkage to inlet air louvres or natural draft burners, shall have the linkage
so arranged, that the louvres will go to the open position in the event of
failure of the linkage, provided such failure could change the fuel-air ratio.
            6. On equipment with approved programming controls, the positive
closing gas valve may be of either the automatic or the manual reset type. On
equipment with constant ly proved pilot, and on which the positive closing
valve and flame failure control relay does not program with the starting and
stopping of the main flame, the valve shall be of the approved manual reset
type. On equipment with an input of less than 5,000,000 BTU per hour, automatic
types of positive closing may be used on either type of pilot control, provided
that they do not require the closing of a circuit or relay, and are of the
"normally closed" type of valve.
         F. Gas Pressure Regulators. Approved types of gas regulators shall be
used on all gas burning equipment. These regulators shall maintain a stable gas
pressure to the equipment, within the range of pressure set up by the
manufacturer of the gas burning equipment.
            1. Low Pressure. An approved gas pressure regulator shall be
installed.
            2. Medium Pressure. An approved pressure regulator shall be
installed up stream of all other controls when the inlet pressure is not
regulated by the utility and this regulator shall be rated at not less than the
maximum street pressure. Where the inlet pressure is regulated by the utility
at a pressure not exceeding five (5) psi, and may be either up or down stream
of other operating controls.
            3. High Pressure. Not less than two gas pressure regulators shall
be installed down steam of the utility company meter, one of these to be
normally at the meter location and pressure reduction shall be accomplished in
not less than two stages. Both the first and second regulators shall be
designed for, and capable of handling the maximum street pressure available. If
a third stage of regulation is desired, this regulator shall be rated for not
less than the outlet pressure of the first stage regulator unless installed
down stream of the operating controls.
            4. A limiting device shall be installed on the down stream side of
the final stage of pressure regulating, on medium and high pressure. This
limiting device shall be so arranged that it will close the main gas control
valves in the event the gas pressure exceeds the proper regulated pressure.
This limiting device shall be so arranged that it will require manual recycling
or resetting before the equipment can be put back in operation.
         G. Operating and Limiting Controls
            1. Steam boilers shall be equipped with not less than one operating
control, and one high limit control, an low water cut-off.
            2. Hot water boiler shall be equipped with not less than one
operating and one high limit control, activated by boiler water temperature.
Operating controls actuated by water temperature shall be of immersion type,
mounted directly into the boiler water, the high limit control may be of the
surface type, mounted on the rise or risers adjacent to the boiler, ahead of
all flow or other controls.
            3. Warm air furnaces shall be equipped with not less than one
operating and one high limit control. These controls shall be so located that
failure of fans or air circulation through the unit will not appreciably affect
their operation, or such fans shall be equipped with the equipment in the event
of fan failure.
            4. Thermostats, where directly operating the gas burning equipment,
may be considered operating controls.
            5. When forced or induced draft is used, an approved air switch
shall be installed to prevent operation of the equipment at any time such draft
is not definitely established and maintained at pre-determined adequate
setting.
            6. Electrically operated safety devices shall not rely on closing a
circuit or relay to close the main gas valve or valves.
            7. Primary air fans shall be equipped with an approved positive
method of preventing the burner from starting or remaining in operation in the
event of failure of the primary air source.
         H. Plain Pilot.
            1. Each burner shall be equipped with a plain gas pilot, or gas
pilots in addition to the safety pilot to insure smooth lighting of the burner
so that there will be no roll back or heavy detonations during lighting off
period, except that where the burner unit is of such size that the safety pilot
only will light burner smoothly, the plain pilot may be omitted. The pilot
flame may be omitted. The pilot flame shall effectively ignite the gas at the
burner and shall be so designated as to be adequately protected from drafts
where required. Pilot flames shall not become extinguished by the main burners
when starting or stopping them in a normal manner. Luminous flame pilots shall
not show carbon deposit during the period of tests when adjusted according to
the manufacturer's instructions.
            2. Where the vertical or upshot type of burner consisting of a
multiplicity of heads is used, a minimum of one plain gas pilot or each eight
heads must be used. In arriving at the number of pilots, the safety pilot will
be counted as one plain gas pilot above eight heads; below eight heads there
must be at least one plain gas pilot and a safety pilot unless the Building
Inspection Department approves a lesser number.
         I. Safety Pilots and Controls.
            1. Where the total input to any gas burning device exceeds 400, 000
BTU all burners shall he equipped with approved flame rectifier, flame
conductivity or scanner cell types of safety controls. Heat sensitive types of
pilots will not be permitted.
            2. Safety pilots shall be so designed that upon insertion of pilot
after removal for repairs or cleaning, pilot will be in the same position
relative to main burner as when
originally installed. The pilot flame shall be in such a position that in the
event of a drop in gas pressure, the contact between the pilot flame and flame
rod or scanner shall be broken before the point where the pilot light will fail
to reliably ignite the main burner.
            3. The control system used in conjunction with the electronic
safety pilot shall be of a type to lock out the main flame in approximately
five (5) seconds or less, and shall require a manual reset operation before
flame can be reestablished. All safety pilots shall be equipped with positive
closing automatic gas valves, and shall close in the event of an indicated
flame failure.
            4. Forced or induced draft equipment and natural draft type burners
with supplementary air fans with modulating or closing air shutters with an
input in excess of 1,000,000 BTU per hour shall be so arranged that a pre-purge
period of approximately thirty (30) seconds is obtained. This pre-purge shall
occur before establishing ignition on intermittent or interrupted pilots, and
before establishing main flame or continuously proved pilots.
            5. Where a switch is installed in the low water cut-off circuit to
keep the circuit to the safety shut-off valve closed when blowing down water
column, switch must be of the push button type, so that when operator releases
button, the control circuit to safety shut-off valve will be normal.
            6. All pilot burners shall be supported in such a manner that their
position relative to the main burner or burners will remain fixed.
            7. Pilot lines shall be connected to vertical supply lines when
possible. When horizontal line is used, connection must be on top or side.
Connection must be ahead of all controls, (except pressure regulator on medium
and high pressure) and main shut-off cock. Where gas pressure is greater than
that for which pilots are designed, a pressure regulator (pilot regulator) must
be installed on the down stream side of pilot line shut-off cock.
            8. Safety shut-off valves shall be tested to assure gas tightness
of the seat when in a closed position; the valve assembly shall be gas tight in
all positions. Packing glands shall be designed so that the valve will not be
made inoperative by excessive tightening of the packing nut.
         J. Venting of Controls. Pressure regulators, show opening gas valves
and other gas equipment requiring venting shall be vented to a safe point
outside of the building, or to a point in the breeching or stack, where the
volume or flow of air is such that a combustible mixture cannot be obtained.
         K. Draft Controls. Approved draft controls are to be used on all
equipment, except when forced and induced draft is used in conjunction with
controls that modulate the forced or induced draft in the direct ratio with the
fuel modulation, and shall he used with systems when they are attached to a
stack which may disturb fuel air ratio due to its draft intensity to the
equipment.
            1. Barometric Draft Controls. These draft controls are to be of the
"gas" type control, free to swing both ways. Barometric type draft controls
shall have a cross sectional area equal to approximately seventy-five (75) per
cent of the cross sectional area of the breeching from equipment which they are
regulating.
            2. Mechanical Draft Controls. This type of control may use
hydraulic pressure, steam, air, or electricity as an actuating medium, and
shall be so arranged that they will program to the open position before
ignition is established or interrupted or intermittent piloted equipment, and
before main flame is established on constantly proved pilot equipment, and
shall be equipped with a positive means of delaying the equipment, before the
open position is obtained.
         L. Duel Fuel Equipment. All dual fuel equipment, using gas as one of
the fuels must comply with the requirements of this Section, in controlling the
gas equipment, and shall be so arranged that no adjustments are changed or
required when changing fuels. Dual fuel equipment shall be equipped with an on-
off-on type of transfer switch, that will not pass through the center off
position with stopping in the off position.
         M. Inspection and Test. All installations shall be carefully tested
for the proper operation of all controls and electrical circuits. Upon
completion of fire testing and adjusting, a complete test report shall be filed
with the Building Inspection Department in accordance with forms supplied by
the Building Inspection Department. Piping shell he carefully tested for leaks.
         N. Industrial Applications. On certain industrial and process
applications, where certain parts of these regulations cannot be met as
required, individual approval must be obtained from the Building Inspection
Department before a permit will be issued or installation can be made.
         O. Air Intakes. Gas burning equipment in buildings where adequate air
for combustion is not assured, shall have fresh air intakes of the permanently
open type, or with closable dampers. Air intakes with closable or automatic
type dampers that program with the equipment shall be equipped with a positive
lockout device to prevent operation of the equipment unless the damper is open
to a pre-determined position.
      Subd. 7. Limiting Liability of City. The City does not assume any
liability for injuries to persons or property by reason of any defect in said
appliances or the installation thereof, by reason of the inspection and permits
authorized herein.
      Subd. 8. Penalties For Violation. Any person, firm or corporation who
shall violate any of the provisions of this Section or who shall fail to comply
with any of its requirements shall be subject to a forfeiture of not less than
$5.00 nor more than $100.00 for each offense, and in default of payment of such
forfeiture, by imprisonment until such forfeiture is paid, not exceeding ninety
(90) days. Each and every day such violation or lack of compliance continues to
exist shall be considered a separate offense.
Source: Ordinance No. 225
Effective Date: 06-01-1962
(Sections 3.51 through 3.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 3.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION LICENSING, PERMITS AND REGULATION
SECTION 4.01. BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   Subd. 1. Codes Adopted by Reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, as
adopted by the Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 326B, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations
established, adopted and published from time to time by the Minnesota
Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the Building Codes and Standards
Unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the optional
chapters, unless specifically adopted in this Section. The Minnesota State
Building Code is hereby incorporated in this Section as if fully set out
herein.
      Subd. 2. Application, Administration and Enforcement.
         A. The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by Minnesota Statutes, Section
326B.121, Subd. 2(d), when so established by this Section.
         B. The code enforcement agency of the City is the Two Harbors Building
Official. This code shall be enforced by the state-certified building official
designated by the City to administer the code in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes, Section 326B.133, Subd. 1.
      Subd. 3. Building Code Optional Chapters.  Minnesota State Building Code,
Chapter 1300 allows the City to adopt by reference and enforce certain optional
chapters of the most current edition of the Minnesota State Building Code.
      Subd. 4. Optional Provisions. The following optional provisions
identified in the most current edition of the State Building Code are hereby
adopted incorporated as part of the City Building Code:
         A. Chapter 1306, Special Fire Protection Systems; and
         B. 2018 IBC Appendix Chapter J - Grading.
               Source: Ordinance No. 124
               Effective Date: 09-08-2021
SEC. 4.02. PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits under this Chapter, which may include a surcharge, shall be
determined by the Council and fixed by its resolution, a copy of which shall be
in the office of the City Administrator and uniformly enforced.
SEC. 4.03. BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair,
move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure, or any
part or portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the plumbing,
ventilating, heating or air conditioning systems therein, or cause the same to
be done, without first obtaining a separate building or mechanical permit for
each such building, structure or mechanical components from the City.
SEC. 4.04. DEMOLITION PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to demolish or cause to be demolished any
building or structure without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City.
Application for such permit shall be made at least ten (l0) days prior to
commencement of such demolition, together with payment of the required fee and
deposit.
SEC. 4.05. HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS AND PREMISES - DEMOLITION, CORRECTION AND
PERMITS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         A. "Building" means any structure or part of a structure.
         B. "Hazardous Building or Premises" means any building or premises
which, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, physical damage,
unsanitary condition, or abandonment, constitutes a fire hazard or a hazard to
public safety or health.
      Subd. 2. Demolition.
         A. Permits. It is unlawful for any person to demolish or cause to be
demolished any building without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
City. Application for such permit shall be made at least ten (10) days prior to
proposed commencement of such demolition, together with payment of any required
fee or deposit. All applications for demolition permits shall be investigated
by the Building Inspector.
         B. Fencing. All demolition permits shall be issued on condition that
adequate fencing of the entire area is in place. For a determination of what
fencing is "adequate", the applicant shall be in communication with the
Building Inspector.
         C. Time Limit. All demolition shall proceed with dispatch and the time
limit shall be a condition of permit issuance.
         D. Public Liability Insurance. Persons or contractors, before a permit
is issued, shall provide the City with evidence of public liability insurance
coverage on which the City is a named insured. Limits of such insurance shall
be at least $100,000.00 per person and $300,000.00 per occurrence in the
discretion of the Building Inspector depending on the nature and extent of
demolition.
      Subd. 3. Notice and Abatement Proceedings. The Building Official may
order the owner of any premises to correct or remove the hazardous condition of
the building or premises or to raze or remove the building. In all cases of a
hazardous condition being reported to the City by third persons, the Council
shall order a prompt investigation.
SEC. 4.06. PERMITS AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING BUILDINGS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Highway" means a public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which
is a State trunk highway, County State-aid highway, or County road.
         2. "Street" means a public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is
not a State trunk highway, County State-aid highway or County road.
         3. "Moving Permit" means a document allowing the use of a street or
highway for the purpose of moving a building.
         4. "Highway Moving Permit" means a permit to move a building on a
highway for which a fee is charged which does not include route approval, but
does include regulation of activities which do not involve the use of the
highway; which activities include, but are not limited to, repairs or
alterations to a municipal utility required by reason of such movement.
         5. "Street Moving Permit" means a permit to move a building on a
street for which a fee is charged which does include route approval, together
with use of the street and activities including, but not limited to, repairs or
alterations to a municipal utility required by reason of such movement.
         6. "Combined Moving Permit" means a permit to move a building on both
a street and a highway.
      Subd. 2. Application. The application for a moving permit shall state the
dimensions, weight, and approximate loaded height of the structure or building
proposed to be moved, the places from which and to which it is to be moved, the
route to be followed, the dates and times of moving and parking, the name and
address of the mover, and the municipal utility and public property repairs or
alterations that will be required by reason of such movement. In the case of a
street moving permit or combined moving permit the application shall also state
the size and weight of the structure or building proposed to be moved and the
street alterations or repairs that will be required by reason of such movement.
      Subd. 3. Permit and Fee. The moving permit shall state date or dates of
moving, hours, routing, movement and parking. Permits shall be issued only for
moving buildings by building movers licensed by the State of Minnesota, except
that a permit may be issued to a person moving his/her own building, or a
person moving a building which does not exceed l6 feet in width, 20 feet in
length, or 14 feet in loaded height. Nor shall a license be required of farmers
moving their own farm buildings, nor of persons moving manufactured or modular
homes. A fee shall be charged equal to the anticipated amount required to
compensate the City for any municipal utility and public property (other than
streets) repairs or alterations occasioned by such movement. All fees shall be
established by the Council and paid in advance of issuance of a permit.
      Subd. 4. Building Permit and Code Compliance. Before any building is
moved from one location to another within the City, or from a point of origin
without the City to a destination within the City, regardless of the route of
movement, it shall be inspected and brought into full compliance with the
current Building Code.
      Subd. 5. Unlawful Acts.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any street
without a moving permit from the City.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any highway
without a highway moving permit.
         C. It is unlawful to move any building (including a manufactured home)
if the point of origin or destination (or both) is within the City, and
regardless of the route of movement, without having paid in full all real and
personal property taxes, special assessments and municipal utility charges due
on the premises of origin and filing written proof of such payment with the
City.
      Subd. 6. Denial of a Permit. Any permit under this Section shall be
denied upon a finding of any one of the following:
         A. The building is in such state of deterioration or disrepair or is
otherwise so structurally unsafe that it would constitute a danger to persons
or property in the City.
         B. The Building Official has determined that the building is
structurally unsafe or unfit for the purpose for which moved, if the location
to which the building is to be moved is in the City.
         C. If the location to which the building is to be moved is in the
City, the building is in substantial variance with either the established or
the expected pattern of building development within the neighborhood to which
the building is to be moved. Comparative age, bulk, architectural style and
quality of construction of both the building to be moved and the buildings
existing in the neighborhood shall be considered in determining whether a
building is in substantial variance.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 4.07 through 4.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 4.20. HOUSING CODE ADOPTED.
   The BOAC National Property Maintenance Code, 1996 Edition, published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, is hereby adopted by reference
as though set forth verbatim herein. One copy of said Code shall be marked CITY
OF TWO HARBORS - OFFICIAL COPY and kept on file in the office of the City
Administrator and open to inspection and use by the public.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 4.21 through 4.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 4.30. REGULATIONS FOR THE BURNING OF SOLID FUELS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Solid Fuel-Fired Heating Device" means a device designed for solid
fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of the
building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, fireplaces, solid fuel-fired
cooking stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boilers which burn solid fuel.
Solid fuel-fired heating devices do not include natural gas-fired fireplace
logs.
         2. "Stacks or Chimneys" means any vertical structure incorporated into
a building and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a
solid fuel-fired heating device; especially the part of such a structure
extending above a roof.
         3. "Public Nuisance" shall be defined as any of the following: (a)
maintaining or permitting a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of members of the
public; or, (b) interfering with, obstructing or rendering dangerous for
passage, any street, public right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or, (c)
any other act or omission declared by law to be a public nuisance. Any person,
who by his act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor.
      Subd. 2. Permits. The City may establish a permit fee schedule and
require any person to obtain a permit for any solid fuel-fired heating device
that is sold or purchased after the effective date of this Section.
      Subd. 3. Additional Requirements Upon the Effective Date of this Section.
         A. All wood-burning units installed or purchased within the City
limits are required to meet emission standards currently required by the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Underwriters Laboratories (UL)
listing.
         B. All outdoor wood-burning units or solid fuel-fired heating devices
are subject to public nuisance as described in this Section.
         C. Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, may be declared a public nuisance by a properly
designated authority.
         D. Minimum stack height of any indoor or outdoor solid fuel-fired
heating device shall have a minimum height conforming to Uniform Building Code
regulations and meet Uniform Building Codes. Construction of all stacks or
chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum of 6" flue.
         E. Any existing stack height or irregularly installed stack shall be
removed or replaced within a period of six (6) months from date of notice.
         F. All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements.
         G. Dwellings with less than 25 feet of open space between units shall
have a minimum stack height of three (3) feet above the roof of the adjoining
properties' highest roof elevation.
      Subd. 4. Duties of City Officers. The Building Inspector, Street
Superintendent, Police Department or other designated official shall enforce
the provisions of this Section. Emission standards shall be enforced by the
EPA.
SEC. 4.31. MINIMUM STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS.
      Subd. 1. Foundations. Any structure designed to be used as a dwelling
shall be placed on a permanent foundation constructed of masonry, concrete or
treated wood. Foundations shall be one of the following: (a) full depth
foundations (basements); (b) frost depth foundation walls; (c) frost piers; (d)
slab on grade. Frost piers and slab construction for residential and commercial
buildings require design by a registered engineer licensed in the State of
Minnesota. All footings supporting the foundation shall be constructed of solid
masonry or concrete placed at a minimum depth of five (5) feet below the
finished grade. Provided, that this Subdivision shall not apply to a building
constructed on a reinforced concrete slab if such slab forms the ground floor
of the dwelling.
      Subd. 2. Exterior of All Buildings. The exposed exterior of all buildings
shall be brick, stone, solid masonry or concrete, or colored steel, wood or
vinyl, aluminum or composite.
      Subd. 3. Exception. This Section shall not apply to manufactured homes in
manufactured home parks licensed by the State.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 4.32 through 4.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 4.40. SIGN REGULATION.
      Subd. 1. Purpose.
         A. The purpose of this Section is to promote the health, safety,
welfare, orderly development, livability, and economy of Two Harbors by
advancing both the opportunity for advertising by businesses and the
attractiveness of Two Harbors as a place to live, as a tourism center and as a
commercial and industrial center.
         B. The City recognizes that its general welfare and community
attractiveness are interdependent, even more so with tourism as a vital part of
the job base and economy. The City intends to improve its overall
attractiveness through public improvements, public services, planning,
regulation, and enforcement. Therefore, it is the intent of this Section to
preserve and enhance the natural, historic and economic setting of Two Harbors
as a unique small port town on Lake Superior. The intent of the Section is to
move toward signage that emphasizes natural materials and colors, subdued
lighting and scale that fits the setting and character of the area.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. “Abandoned Sign” - Any sign structure that has ceased to be used
for the display of sign copy, or any sign regarding a business or activity on
the site of the sign where such business or activity has ceased to be conducted
for a period of more than six (6) consecutive months.
         2. “Address Sign” - A sign communicating the street address and/or the
name of the occupant of a property.
         3. “Animated Sign” - A sign employing actual motion or the illusion of
motion. Animated signs, which are differentiated from changeable signs as
defined and regulated by this Section, include the following types:
            (a)  Environmentally Activated Sign: Animated signs or devices
motivated by wind, thermal changes, or other natural environmental input.
Includes spinners, pinwheels, pennant strings, and/or other devices or displays
that respond to naturally occurring external motivation.
            (b)  Mechanically Activated: Animated signs characterized by
repetitive motion and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by
electric motors or other mechanically induced means.
            (c)  Electrically Activated: Animated signs producing the illusion
of movement by means of electronic, electrical, or electro-mechanical input
and/or illumination capable of simulating movement through employment of the
characteristics of one (1) or both of the classifications noted below.
               i. Flashing: Animated signs or animated portions of signs that
have artificial light or color that is not maintained at a constant light level
or intensity when such sign is in use or signs that change as a pattern of
changing light illumination where the sign illumination alternates suddenly
between fully illuminated and fully non-illuminated in a time frame of less
than one (1) second.
               ii. Patterned Illusionary Movement: Animated signs or animated
portions of signs whose illumination is characterized by simulated movement
through alternate or sequential activation of various illuminated elements for
the purpose of producing repetitive light patterns designed to appear in some
form of constant motion.
         4. “Awning” - An architectural projection or shelter projecting from
and supported by the exterior wall of a building and composed of a covering of
rigid or non-rigid materials and/or fabric on a supporting framework that may
be either permanent or retractable.
         5. “Awning Sign” - A sign displayed on or attached flat against the
surface or surfaces of an awning. Awning signs must meet the same sign area
standards as wall signs.
         6. “Balloon” - A flexible, non-porous bag inflated with either air or
helium that causes it to rise and float in the atmosphere.
         7. “Banner” - A flexible substrate on which copy or graphics may be
displayed. Pennants also meet this definition.
         8. “Billboard” - See Off-Premise Sign.
         9. “Building Elevation” - The entire side of a building, from ground
level to the roofline, as viewed perpendicular to the walls on that side of the
building.
         10. “Canopy (Attached)” - A multi-sided overhead structure or
architectural projection supported by attachment to a building on one (1) or
more sides and either cantilevered from such a building or also supported by
columns at additional points. A marquee is considered a form of an attached
canopy.
         11. “Canopy (Freestanding)” - A multi-sided overhead structure
supported by columns, but not enclosed by walls.
         12. “Changeable Sign” - A sign with the capability of content change
by means of manual or remote input including signs that are:
            (a) Manually Activated – Changeable sign whose message copy or
content can be changed manually.
            (b) Electrically Activated – Changeable sign whose message copy or
content can be changed by means of remote electrically energized on-off
switching combinations of alphabetic or pictographic components arranged on a
display surface. Illumination may be integral to the components, such as
characterized by lamps or other light-emitting devices; or it may be from an
external light source designed to reflect off the changeable component display.
         13. “Convenience Store/Gas Station” - Any building or premises
primarily used for the dispensing of gasoline or diesel fuel. These facilities
also generally sell a variety of consumer goods.
         14. “Copy” - Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos, and
graphic elements comprising the content or message of a sign, excluding
numerals identifying street address only.
         15. “Development Complex Sign” - A freestanding or wall sign
identifying a multiple-occupancy development, such as a shopping center or
planned industrial park, that contains three (3) or more tenants. The sign may
contain the name of the development and/or the tenants within the complex.
         16. “Directional Sign” - Any sign that is designed and erected for the
purpose of providing direction and/or orientation for pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
         17. “Directory Sign” - A wall sign that identifies individual tenants
within a development that do not have their own exclusive exterior entrance.
         18. “Double-Faced Sign” - A sign with two (2) identical faces that is
designed so only one (1) face can be viewed at one (1) time. Only one (1)
display face shall be measured in computing total sign area for this type of
sign.
         19. “Exterior Sign” - Any sign placed outside, or upon the exterior of
a building.
         20. “Externally Illuminated Sign” - A sign characterized by the use of
artificial light reflecting off its surface.
         21. “Façade” - The face of a building from the lowest exposed point to
the roof. See Building Elevation.
         22. “Flashing Sign” - See Animated Sign, Electrically Activated.
         23. “Freestanding Sign” - A sign principally supported by a structure
affixed to the ground, and not supported by a building, including signs
supported by one (1) or more columns, poles, or braces placed in or upon the
ground.
         24. “Frontage (Property)” - The length of the property line(s) of any
single premise along either a public way or other properties on which it
borders.
         25. “Frontage (Building)” - The length of an exterior building wall or
structure of a single premise oriented to the public way or other properties
that it faces.
         26. “Government Sign” - A public sign designed for the control of
traffic and other regulated purposes including street signs, warning signs,
signs or public service companies. For the purpose of these regulations, a
government sign also includes any sign that is located on or off-premise and is
specifically designed to provide directions or to identify a public or semi-
public facility or area such as City Hall, libraries, schools, parks, and
historic sites.
         27. “Ground Sign” - See Freestanding Sign.
         28. “Interior Sign” - Any sign placed within a building, but not
including window signs as defined by this Section. Interior signs, with the
exception of window signs as defined in this Section, are not regulated by this
Section.
         29. “Internally Illuminated Sign” - A sign characterized by the use of
artificial light projecting through its surface.
         30. “Mansard” - An inclined decorative roof-like projection that is
attached to an exterior building façade.
         31. “Memorial Sign” - A sign attached to a building noting its
natural, historic, community or architectural significance.
         32. “Menu Board” - A freestanding sign oriented to the drive-through
lane for a restaurant that advertises the menu items available from the drive-
through window, and which has no more than twenty percent (20%) of the total
area for such sign utilized for business identification.
         33. “Monument Sign” - A freestanding sign in which the entire base of
the sign structure is in contact with the ground, providing a solid and
continuous background for the sign face that is the same width as the sign from
the ground to the top of the sign. The base of the sign shall be constructed of
a permanent material such as concrete block or stone.
         34. “Mullion” - A vertical strip separating windowpanes.
         35. “Multiple-Faced Sign” - A sign containing three (3) or more faces.
         36. “Mural” - A sign applied with paint to the wall or on flat
material attached to the wall of a building consisting of a picture or scenes
rather than words, numbers or symbols.
         37. “Off-Premise Signs” - A sign advertising products, goods, or
places of business or services offered elsewhere other than upon the zoning lot
where the sign is maintained.
         38. “On-Premise Electronic Message Centers” - An on-premise sign that
can be changed or altered by electronic means on a fixed display screen
composed of a series of lights including light emitting diodes (LEDs), fiber
optics, lights bulbs, or other illumination devices within the display area
where the message is displayed that is controlled by a programmable computer.
The owners of such signs shall provide written certification from the
manufacturers of such sign, prior to permitting approval, that light intensity
has been programmed to appropriately adjust to ambient light conditions via an
automatic photo cell or other control device and that the intensity level is
protected from end-user manipulation by password-protected software.
         39. “On-Premise Sign” - A sign erected, maintained or used in the
outdoor environment for the purpose of the display of messages pertinent to the
use of, products sold on, or the sale or lease of, the property on which it is
displayed.
         40. “Parapet” - The extension of a building façade above the line of
the structural roof.
         41. “Pennant” - See Banner.
         42. “Permit” - A sign permit must be obtained prior to placing a sign
within the City. See Subd. 3 for requirements for permit application.
         43. “Permanent Sign” - Any sign that is not temporary. Banners shall
not be considered a permanent sign.
         44. “Pole Sign” - See Freestanding Sign.
         45. “Political Sign” - A temporary sign intended to advance a
political statement, cause, or candidate for office.
         46. “Portable Sign” - Any sign not permanently attached to the ground
or to a building or building surface.
         47. “Projecting Sign” - A sign attached to a building or extending in
whole or part more than eighteen (18) inches and less than six (6) feet beyond
the surface of the building to which the sign is attached.
         48. “Reader Board Sign” - A sign intended to display a message through
the use of manually changed letters that is permanently attached to a
freestanding sign or affixed to a wall of the principal building. All other
such signs shall be deemed as temporary signs.
         49. “Real Estate Sign” - A temporary sign advertising the sale, lease,
or rental of the property or premises upon which it is located.
         50. “Rotating Sign” - Any sign that revolves, rotates, or has any
moving parts. See also: Animated Sign: Mechanically Activated.
         51. “Roof Line” - The top edge of a peaked roof or, in the case of an
extended façade or parapet, the uppermost point of said façade or parapet.
         52. “Roof Sign” - A sign mounted on, and supported by, the main roof
portion of a building, or above the uppermost edge of a parapet wall of a
building and which is wholly or partially supported by such building. Signs
mounted on mansard façades, and architectural projections such as canopies or
marquees shall not be considered to be roof signs.
         53. “Sign” - Any device visible from a public right-of-way that
displays either commercial or non-commercial messages by means of graphic
presentation of alphabetic or pictorial symbols or representations. Non-
commercial flags or any flags displayed from flagpoles or staffs will not be
considered a sign.
         54. “Sign Area” - The area of the board(s) or module(s) containing the
sign message, but not including the supporting structure. The area to be
calculated is the area within the smallest rectilinear perimeter that contains
the entire signboard or module. The area of a sphere shall be computed as the
area of a circle.
         55. “Sign Copy” - Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos,
and graphic elements comprising the content or message of a sign, exclusive of
numerals identifying street address only.
         56. “Sign Face” - The surface upon, against or through which the sign
copy is displayed or illustrated, not including structural supports,
architectural features of a building or sign structure, nonstructural or
decorative trim, or any areas that are separated from the background surface
upon which the sign copy is displayed by a distinct delineation, such as a
reveal or border.
         57. “Temporary Sign” - A sign intended to display either commercial or
non-commercial messages of a transitory or temporary nature. Portable signs or
any sign not permanently embedded in the ground, or not permanently affixed to
a building or sign structure that is permanently embedded in the ground, are
considered temporary signs.
         58. “Tenant Space” - For the purpose of this Section, a tenant space
is considered to be a business area that has its own exclusive interior or
exterior entrance within a multiple-occupancy development.
         59. “V Sign” - Signs containing two (2) faces of approximately equal
size, erected upon common or separate structures, positioned in a "V" shape
with an interior angle between faces of not more than ninety (90) degrees with
the distance between the sign faces not exceeding five (5) feet at their
closest point. V-signs shall be considered to be two (2) signs for the purposes
of computing sign area.
         60. “Wall or Fascia Sign” - A sign that is in any manner affixed to
any exterior wall of a building or structure and that projects not more than
eighteen (18) inches from the building or structure wall, including signs
affixed to architectural projections from a building provided the copy area of
such signs remains on a parallel plane to the face of the building façade or to
the face or faces of the architectural projection to which it is affixed.
         61. “Window Sign” - A sign attached to, placed upon, or painted on a
window or door of a building, or located within one (1) foot of the interior of
a window, that is intended for viewing from the exterior of such building.
         62. “Zoning Ordinance” -
Chapter 11 of the City Code or related or succeeding ordinances.
   Subd. 3. Permit.
      A. Application. All persons seeking to place a sign within the City
limits of the City of Two Harbors and as regulated by the terms of this Section
shall obtain a permit. The applicant shall first file an application in writing
on a form furnished for that purpose by the Zoning Administrator for the City
of Two Harbors. Every such application shall:
         1. Identify and describe the work completely including size, height,
location, materials, colors and lighting to be used. All applications must
include a color rendering thereof.
         2. Describe the land on which the proposed sign is to be placed by
lot, block, tract, house and street address or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed sign.
         3. Be accompanied by a photograph of the site.
         4. Be accompanied by a site plan and specifications sufficient to
determine consistency with this and other applicable laws and ordinances.
         5. Be signed by the applicant or authorized agent.
         6. Provide such other information as may reasonably be required by the
Zoning Administrator.
         7. Be accompanied by a fee as established by the City Council.
      B. Sign Permits. The application, plans and specifications filed by an
applicant for a permit shall be checked by the Zoning Administrator. Such plans
may also be reviewed by other departments of the City including the Building
Inspector to check compliance with the laws and ordinances under their
jurisdiction. In addition, certain signs may fall under Subd. 11, Subsection
E.7. and 8. and require design review by the Planning Commission prior to
approval by the Zoning Administrator. If the Zoning Administrator determines
that the work described in an application for permit and the plans filed
therewith conform to the requirements of this Section and other pertinent laws
and ordinances, he shall issue a permit. If the Zoning Administrator determines
that the application does not conform, the permit shall be denied.
      C. Action on Permit Applications. Once the Zoning Administrator has
determined that the permit application is complete, the application must be
approved or denied within sixty (60) days. If no action is taken within such
time period the permit application shall be deemed to be approved.
      D. Expiration of Permit. Every permit by the Zoning Administrator under
the provisions of this Section shall expire by limitation and become null and
void if the sign or work authorized by such permit is not completed within one
hundred twenty (120) days from the date such permit is issued. The Zoning
Administrator may grant extensions in the sole discretion of the Zoning
Administrator for good cause shown by the applicant.
      E. Right to Appeal.
         1. Any applicant who files an application for a permit and is denied
shall have the right to an appeal before the Board of Zoning Appeals as set
forth in
Chapter 11 of the City Code, within ten (10) days of receiving notice of the
denial of the application. For the purpose of this provision, notice shall be
deemed to be complete once the notice of denial of permit is mailed to the
applicant's last known mailing address. An applicant who does not file an
appeal within ten (10) days of the mailing of such notice shall be deemed to
have waived the right to an appeal.
         2. An owner who files an application and is issued a permit by the
Zoning Administrator and then erects a sign or signs which the Zoning
Administrator determines is neither in conflict with this Section or in
conflict with the permit issued in connection with the sign, is entitled to an
appeal by the Board of Zoning Appeals as set forth in
Chapter 11 of the City Code within ten (10) days of receiving notice of such
determination. For the purpose of this provision, notice shall be deemed to be
complete once the notice of non-compliance is mailed to the owners' last known
mailing address. If the owner of such signs is unknown, the notice shall be
mailed to the owner or occupant of the property on which the sign is located.
An owner who does not file an appeal within ten (10) days of the mailing of
such notice shall be deemed to have waived the right to an appeal and the
Zoning Administrator's determination will be final.
      F. Sign Removal.
         1. Any signs hereafter constructed in the City without obtaining a
permit as required by this Section shall be removed by and at the expense of
the owner(s) of the sign. If the owner does not remove such sign(s) with five
(5) working days of receiving notice of non-compliance for failure to obtain a
permit, the Zoning Administrator may order the immediate removal of all such
sign(s). For the purpose of this provision, notice shall be deemed to be
complete once the notice of violation of permit is mailed to the owner's last
known mailing address. If the owner of the sign(s) is unknown, the notice shall
be mailed to the owner or occupant of the property on which the sign is
located. All costs associated with the removal of such sign(s) shall be the
sole and exclusive responsibility of the owner of the sign(s). If the owner of
the sign does not remit payment for such removal within sixty (60) days after
removal of the sign, the City may take whatever actions are allowed by law to
collect such amount, including imposing a lien on the property upon with the
sign is/was located.
         2. The Zoning Administrator may order the immediate removal of all
such sign(s) that are in conflict with this Section or permit. All costs
associated with the removal of such sign(s) shall be the sole and exclusive
responsibility of the owner of the sign(s). If the owner of the sign does not
remit payment for such removal within sixty (60) days after removal of signs,
the City may take whatever actions are allowed by law to collect such amount,
including imposing a lien on the property upon which the sign is/was located.
      G. Violation and Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the
enforcement of any of the provisions of this Section, shall be, upon
conviction, guilty of a petty misdemeanor. Each day that a separate violation
exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   Subd. 4. Exempt Signs. The following signs shall be exempt from the
provisions of the chapter:
      A. Official notices authorized by a court, public body or public safety
official.
      B. Interior window signs in commercial and industrial districts, subject
to the following limitations:
         1. The aggregate area of all such signs shall not exceed twenty-five
percent (25%) of the window area on which such signs are displayed. Window
panes separated by mullions shall be considered as one (1) continuous window
area.
         2. Window signs shall not be counted against the sign area permitted
for other sign types.
      C. Directional, warning or information signs authorized by Federal, State
or Municipal governments provided they do not exceed forty-eight (48) square
feet.
      D. Pedestrian, vehicular traffic, and parking directional signs in
parking lots or on buildings, provided such signs are no more than eight (8)
square feet in area and six (6) feet in height. For a parcel, a maximum of one
(1) such sign shall be allowed at each access/egress point of a development. No
advertising message of any kind is allowed on these signs.
      E. Memorial signs on buildings.
      F. The flag of a government or noncommercial institution, such as a
school.
      G. Seasonal decorations within the right-of-way during the appropriate
public holiday season.
      H. Street address signs, and combination nameplate and street address
signs which contain no advertising copy and which do not exceed six (6) square
feet in area.
      I. Temporary signs for garage and similar sales or events, not more than
four (4) square feet and in place no longer than four (4) days. These may not
be placed on public rights-of-way or attached to trees or utility poles.
      J.  1. Signs denoting the architect, engineer, or contractor working upon
a work site and real estate signs pertaining to the sale, development or rental
of the property. Such signs shall be removed within ten (10) days after
completion of construction or the sale, lease or development of eighty percent
(80%) of the property. No more than three (3) such signs will be allowed at one
(1) time. Each sign shall not exceed the following size limitations:
 
PROJECT AREA     RESIDENTIAL COMMERCIAL/
                             INDUSTRIAL
Under 2.5 acres  8 sq. ft.   32 sq. ft.
1.01 to 10 acres 64 sq. ft.  64 sq. ft.
10.1 to 25 acres 150 sq. ft. 150 sq. ft.
25.1 acres       300 sq. ft. 300 sq. ft.
 
         2. Any other temporary signs announcing construction or development of
a project must meet the permitting and design standards set forth in this
Section for the zone in which the sign is located.
      K. Campaign and political signs of any size may be posted in any number
from August 1 in a state general election year, thirty (30) days before a
primary or special election, until ten (10) days following the state general
election, primary, or special election. Such signs must be at least five (5)
feet away from all property lines.
      L. Home occupation signs, non-illuminated, attached to the wall of a
dwelling, and not exceeding one (1) square foot in area.
      M. Signs temporarily displayed to advertise community events shall be
permitted for nonresidential uses in a residential district, and for all
commercial and industrial districts subject to the following limitations:
         1. Such signs shall be limited to one (1) sign per street front.
         2. Such signs may be displayed for not more than thirty (30) days. The
signs shall be erected no more than thirty (30) days prior to the community
event, and shall be removed not more than two (2) days after the event or grand
opening.
         3. The total area of all such signs shall not exceed thirty-two (32)
square feet.
      N. Government signs in all districts.
      O. Signs that are not visible beyond the boundaries of the lot or parcel
upon which they are located.
   Subd. 5. Prohibited Signs. The following devices and locations shall be
specifically prohibited:
      A. Signs located in such a manner as to obstruct or otherwise interfere
with an official traffic sign, signal or device or obstruct or interfere with a
driver's view of approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic.
      B. Except as provided for elsewhere in this Section, private signs
encroaching upon or overhanging public right-of-way. No sign shall be attached
to any utility pole, light standard, street tree or any other public facility
located within the public right-of-way.
      C. Signs that blink, flash or are animated by lighting in any fashion
that would cause such signs to have the appearance of traffic safety signs and
lights, or municipal vehicle warnings from a distance.
      D. Portable signs except as allowed for temporary signs.
      E. Any sign attached to, or placed on, a vehicle or trailer parked on
public or private property, except for signs meeting the following conditions:
         1. The primary purpose of such vehicle or trailer is not the display
of signs.
         2. The signs are magnetic, decals, or painted upon an integral part of
the vehicle or equipment as originally designed by the manufacturer, and do not
break the silhouette of the vehicle.
         3. The vehicle or trailer is in operating condition, currently
registered and licensed to operate on public streets when applicable, and
actively used or available for use in the daily function of the business to
which such signs relate.
      F. Vehicles and trailers used primarily as static displays, advertising a
product or service, or utilized as storage, shelter or distribution points for
commercial products or services for the general public.
      G. Inflatable or flying devices such as, but not excluded to, balloons,
streamers or pinwheels except those that are permitted temporary signs.
      H. Signs erected, painted or drawn upon sidewalks, rocks, trees or
natural features.
      I. Signs that are structurally unsafe or in disrepair or which create a
hazard by their condition, location or lighting.
      J. Permanent signs or placards of any size attached or added to any sign
beyond that included in the application and permit.
      K. Abandoned signs.
      L. Rotating signs as defined in this Section.
      M. A sign that violates any provision of any law of the State relative to
off-premises signs.
      N. Temporary signs that advertise a business, product, or service, which
is not produced or conducted on the zoning lot upon which the sign is located.
   Subd. 6. Non-Conforming Signs. Any nonconforming sign existing at the time
of adoption of an additional control under this chapter, may be continued,
including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, but not including expansion, unless: (1) the nonconformity or
occupancy is discontinued for a period of more than one (1) year, or (2) any
nonconforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the extent of greater
than fifty percent (50%) of its market value, and no sign permit has been
applied for within one hundred eighty (180) days of when the property is
damaged. In this case, the City may impose reasonable conditions upon a sign
permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact on adjacent property. This
subdivision does not prohibit the City from enforcing the provisions of the
City's Adult-Use Ordinance.
   Subd. 7. General Provisions.
      A. Conformance to Codes. Any sign hereafter erected shall conform to the
provisions of this Section and the provisions of the Building Code and of any
other ordinance or regulations within the City of Two Harbors.
      B. Projections Over Public Ways. Signs advertising a special community
event may be permitted in or over public rights-of-way, subject to approval by
the Building Official as to the size, location and method of erection. The
Building Official may not approve any special event signage that would impair
the safety and convenience of use of public rights-of-way, or obstruct traffic
visibility.
      C. Traffic Visibility. No sign or sign structure shall be erected at the
intersection of any street in such a manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision, nor at any location where by its position, shape, or color it may
interfere with or obstruct the view of or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal, or device.
      D. Formula for Calculating Sign Size. The formula for calculating the
allowable aggregate total size of all business signs on a parcel is to multiply
the frontage of the parcel upon which the business is located by the number
indicated in the tables that provide the standards for signage in each zoning
district. Fifty (50) square feet of sign area is allowable for parcels with
less than forty (40) feet of frontage. The maximum sign area is dependant upon
the district in which the property is located. Frontage is the dimension in
feet of the parcel upon the street of business mailing address. No alley or
side street dimensions are permitted in the calculation of sign size, although
signs may be placed on the side of buildings.
      E. Maintenance, Repair and Removal.
         1. It shall be the duty of the owner of any sign to maintain the sign
constantly in a state of good repair and safety. The Building Inspector or
Zoning Administrator, in making an inspection of any sign, may order special
repair to be made in order that the appearance and safety of the sign may be
maintained. The Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator may order repairs to
be done within a set time and in all cases of repairs ordered, the owner shall
submit to the City that designated repairs have been made. In all cases where
any sign is unsafe, the Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator is
authorized forthwith to remove such sign as a public nuisance without any
demand for the removal of sign upon the owner or any person maintaining the
sign. Notification of such removal action shall be made to the owner or
reasonable party within ten (10) days of the action taken. All cost will be
borne by the sign owner or the landowner.
         2. No cloth, paper or advertising matter shall be permitted to hang
loose from any sign. It shall be the duty of every person maintaining a sign to
keep and preserve the lot or parcel of land on which such sign is erected at
all times clean, inoffensive, and free and clear of any garbage, refuse weeds,
rubbish, paper or other offensive material of any kind and description, which
may be deposited or gathered thereon and to keep the same removed at all times
for a space equal to twenty (20) feet from any portion of such sign.
      F. Obsolete Sign Copy. In addition to the limitations on an abandoned
sign, an on-premise sign that no longer advertises or identifies a use
conducted on the property on which said sign is erected must have the sign copy
covered or removed within thirty (30) days after written notification from the
Zoning Administrator; and upon failure to comply with such notice, the Zoning
Administrator is hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign copy, and any
expense incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building, structure,
or ground on which the sign is located. If the owner of the sign does not remit
payment for such removal within sixty (60) days after removal of signs, the
City may take whatever actions are allowed by law to collect such amount,
including imposing a lien on the property upon which the sign is located.
      G. Obstructions. No sign shall be erected, constructed or maintained so
as to obstruct any fire escape, required exit-ways, window or door openings
used as a means of egress, or to prevent free passage from one (1) part of a
roof to another part thereof or access thereto. Also, no sign shall be attached
in any form, shape or manner that will interfere with any opening required for
ventilation.
      H. Designation of Ownership. Every freestanding sign shall be plainly
marked with the name and address of the owner of such sign and the permit
number.
      I. Lighting. Except where otherwise stated in this Section, signs may be
illuminated by artificial light sources, whether it is an integral component of
the sign or is intended to direct artificial light upon the sign. Signs shall
not be erected or maintained which are not effectively shielded so as to
prevent:
         1. Beams or rays of light from being directed at any portion of the
traveled way or any street or highway;
         2. Beams of such intensity or brilliance as to cause glare, or impair
the vision of the operator of any motor vehicle; or
         3. Beams or rays of light that cause negative impacts on adjacent
properties.
      J. Sign Setbacks. Unless otherwise stated in this Section, all signs
shall meet the setback requirements of the land use district in which they are
located.
      K. Development Complex Signage. The following standards apply to signs
for development complexes:
         1. For properties with three (3) or more tenants:
            (a) Except where otherwise described in this Section, the maximum
individual sign sizes for development complexes and individual uses that may
display signs shall not exceed the maximum provisions for structures within the
same zoning district.
            (b) Development complexes may display one (1) development complex
sign. This sign shall not exceed one hundred twenty-five (125) square feet in
area for a freestanding sign or fifteen percent (15%) of the building façade
(one hundred twenty-five (125) square foot maximum) upon which it is displayed
for wall signage. Individual freestanding signs identifying the tenants'
business shall not be displayed.
            (c) Individual tenants of multiple occupancy structures shall not
display separate business signs unless the tenant's business has an exclusive
exterior entrance. The number of signs shall be limited to one (1) wall sign
per entrance, and each sign shall be limited to the maximum wall size permitted
in the district. The signs shall be located only on exterior walls that are
directly related to the use being identified.
            (d) If there is a development complex with three (3) or more
tenants that does not have exclusive exterior entrances; a directory sign shall
be permitted for each common public entrance. Each directory sign area shall
not exceed a total of twenty-four (24) square feet and shall be located within
twenty-five (25) feet of the common public entrance being served. The size of
individual business identification signing within the directory shall be
established during the review process. Attention shall be given to the possible
number of tenant or occupancy bays that may be served by the common public
entrance for which the directory sign is intended.
         2. For properties with two (2) tenants, each with an exclusive
exterior entrance: One (1) wall sign not to exceed ten percent (10%) of the
building façade upon which it is located that does not count against the
allowable signage for the property. This sign shall be located only on exterior
walls that are directly related to the use being identified.
      L. Sign Program. A sign program shall be required for all development
complexes consisting of three (3) or more tenant spaces. The program shall be
filed with the project application to construct the center and shall be
processed concurrently with the project application. The purpose of the program
shall be to integrate signs with building and landscaping design to form a
unified architectural statement. This shall be achieved by:
         1. Using the same type of cabinet supports or method or mounting for
sign and the same type of construction material for components, such as sign
copy, cabinets, returns and supports.
         2. Using the same form of illumination of the signs.
         3. For wall signs, specifying uniform sign positioning for both anchor
tenants and minor tenants.
      M. Gas Station/Convenience Stores. In addition to the total sign area
already permitted, gasoline service stations/convenience stores are allowed the
following signage. The following types of signage shall count as sign area when
considering individual sign sizes:
         1. Lettering and/or logos on pump island canopies. Regardless of the
number of pump island canopies on the site, no more than three (3) canopy faces
may be signed. The maximum sign surface area of the lettering and/or logos
shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%) of each canopy face. These signs
shall not protrude above or below the canopy.
         2. A maximum of sixteen (16) square feet of area to indicate gasoline
prices. This area may only include the numerals and references to types of
gasoline that are not identified with a specific business. Any area for
numerals or types of gasoline over sixteen (16) feet is counted against the
allowable signage on the site.
         3. One (1) sign indicating a special service area such as a car wash
no larger than six (6) square feet in area. This sign may contain no
advertising messages. The six (6) square feet may not be used on freestanding
signs.
         4. Electronic signs in the B-1A District which statically displays
fuel prices. The maximum allowable electronic signage for fuel prices shall be
fifteen (15) square feet.
   Subd. 8. Variances.
      A. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the authority and power to hear
and grant variances from the literal provision of this Section
4.40 in accordance with the procedures described in Section
11.81 of
Chapter 11. The Board may consider a variance where there would be practical
difficulties from complying with the terms of this Section. Variances from the
regulations of this Section
4.40 shall be granted only in accordance with the standards set forth in
Section
11.81 and (i) only if such variance will be in keeping with the spirit and
intent of this Section
4.40 and (ii) may be granted only in the following instances and no others:
         1. To permit any setback less than a setback required by this Section.
         2. To permit a sign larger than the maximum sign allowed for the
applicable location, but in no event shall the variance allow an increase in
the size of the sign more than fifteen percent (15%) larger than the maximum
allowable size.
         3. To permit a sign at a height greater than the maximum allowable
height as provided herein.
         4. To permit a sign extension from a building greater than the maximum
allowable distance as provided herein.
         5. To permit a sign where otherwise not allowed due to unique physical
characteristics or conditions as set out in Section
11.81, Subd. 5.
   Subd. 9. Off-Premise Signs.
      A.  Off-Premises Directional Sign Program.
         1.  Purpose.  New off-premises way-finding signs will be allowed as
part of an official City Off-site Directional Sign Program (“Program”). The
purpose of the Program is to provide a comprehensive system of vehicular and
pedestrian way finding for public and private destinations throughout the City;
project a consistent community identity; reduce driver and pedestrian
confusion/frustration, improve roadway safety, and support the City’s
businesses and cultural sites as destinations.
         2.  Program.
            (a)  Eligibility. Public and private destinations that are
potential high traffic destinations for tourists, shoppers, and other travelers
are eligible to participate. Private destinations can be retail, business,
shopping, hospitality, restaurant, manufacturing, or other private activities
that would benefit from having an off-premises directional sign. Signs can
display the name of the business and a logo. Names of products or services
offered may not be displayed.
               (i) The City will own, design, erect, and maintain Program sign
structures and panels.
               (ii) Major destinations areas, such as the Waterfront Business
District and Marina and Public Landing, will have reserved sign panels at the
6th and 7th Street intersections with 7th Avenue.
            (b)  Leases.
               (i) Sign panel leases will be initially awarded in March of 2012
and renewed in each succeeding March. Existing lease holders shall have first
right to continue their existing sign location, provided the lessee is in full
compliance with the lessee’s lease and the Program.
               (ii) Lessees will be chosen randomly if there are more eligible
participants than sign panels available.
               (iii) Leases shall be accompanied by an annual fee as
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
               (iv) Lease holders shall also be responsible for the actual cost
incurred by the City for the production and installation of their sign panels.
            (c)  Design and Location. Sign structures and sign panels will be
designed and erected in accordance with the Off-Site Directional Sign Program
design guidelines and shall be established from time to time by resolution of
the City Council.
      B. Existing off-premise signs constituting the principal use of a land
parcel must be removed prior to a zoning or building permit being issued for
construction or reconstruction of a residential, commercial or industrial
building, activity or facility on the same land parcel.
      C. The following limitations will apply to existing non-conforming off-
premises signs:
         1. Off-premise advertising signs not lighted in conformance with this
Section must be removed or the means of lighting brought into conformance
within two (2) years of enactment of this Section.
         2. No other enhancement, enlargement, reconstruction or relocation of
non-conforming off-premises signs are allowed, except to bring a sign into
conformance with this Section.
      D. Lake County Trailblazer signs shall be allowed along County State Aid
Highways within the City.
      E. Business park entrance signs: One (1) monument-style brick or masonry
entrance sign shall be permitted at the main entrance to a designated business
park only in I1, I2, and B1 Districts. If the business park is in a B1 District
it must have frontage along a State Highway or County State Aid Highway. The
maximum area of each entrance sign is eighty (80) square feet per sign face and
may be double sided. Entrance signs may only feature tenants of the designated
business park. Entrance signs are only permitted at the entrance to the
designated business park. Entrance signs must be set back from the right-of-way
a distance of ten (10) feet, and cannot block traffic sight lines. The maximum
height of an entrance sign is ten (10) feet.
      F. No other new off-premises signs shall be allowed.
   Subd. 10. Temporary Signs. Temporary use of portable or movable signs shall
be allowed in excess of and in addition to the sign limitations of this
Section.
      A. General Provisions.
         1. Such signs shall comply with setback provisions for freestanding
signs in each zoning district.
         2. Such signs shall only be allowed in B-1, B-1A, B-2, MUW, I-1, I-2,
M-A, and I-W zoning districts.
         3. Such signs shall be limited to thirty-two (32) square feet in area.
         4. A permit (no fee) shall be obtained from the Zoning Administrator
for each location and time period for placement of such signs.
         5. Temporary signs shall be located on the property that the
advertising pertains to.
         6. All pennants, streamers, banners, and other forms of temporary
signs must be maintained and not be frayed, torn, or tattered.
         7. No more than two temporary signs of any type including balloon,
banner, flag, pennant, poster, free standing, and sandwich board, or other
advertising display may be located on a property at one time.
         8. Temporary signs shall not be allowed as a primary sign display for
a property, unless approved by the Planning Commission and in no case shall a
temporary sign be used as the primary sign display for a property for more than
one hundred eighty-five (185) days in a twelve (12) month period.
      B. The following provisions shall apply for banners, balloons, flags, or
posters:
         1. A balloon, banner, flag, pennant, poster, or advertising display
affixed to a structure may be located on a property for a period not to exceed
one hundred eighty-five (185) days from the date the permit is issued.
         2. The display period may be extended to one year in sixty (60) day
increments by application and issuance of a regular sign permit for each sixty
(60) day period.
      C. The following provisions shall apply for freestanding signs, reader
boards, and other temporary ground signs:
         1. Any freestanding sign, or reader board, not including sandwich
board signs and similar small reader board signs, may be located on a property
for continuous periods not to exceed thirty (30) days from the issuance of the
permit. No more than one (1) such sign will be allowed at a time.
         2. No property shall be allowed more than four (4) such periods in any
twelve (12) calendar year.
      D. Self-supporting freestanding temporary signs with permanent and
changeable message areas such as chalk board and white board, including but not
limited to sandwich boards shall be allowed by temporary permit in the B-1, B-
1A, B-2, and MUW Districts.
         1. One (1) self-supporting freestanding temporary sign with only two
(2) visible sides that are situated adjacent to a business, typically on a
sidewalk that contains commercial speech are allowed per business with a
temporary sign permit.
         2. Permits are valid for one (1) calendar year beginning January 1,
and ending December 31.
         3. The maximum area of a sign shall be no more than six (6) square
feet per side of sign with the maximum height being forty-two (42) inches.
         4. If the sign is to be located within the public right-of-way,
business owners shall sign a concurrent use permit that indemnifies the City of
any liability for use of said public right-of-way.
         5. Signs shall not be placed more than six (6) feet from the front
primary entrance of the business.
         6. Signs shall not be placed so as to cause the width of the sidewalk
to be reduced below four (4) feet in width, nor shall they be erected or
maintained in a manner that prevents free ingress or egress from any door,
window or fire escape.
         7. Attaching signs to structures, poles, objects, signs, etc. by means
of chains, cords, rope, wire, cable, etc. is prohibited.
         8. Signs shall be removed from public sidewalks if there is any snow
accumulation (the sign may not be displayed until the snow is removed) except
those sidewalks located on private property.
         9. Signs shall only be displayed during business operating hours.
         10. Signs shall not be illuminated, nor shall they contain moving
parts or have balloons, streamers, pennants, or similar adornment attached to
them.
         11. Signs placed in violation of this Section will result in immediate
removal of the sign. Signs within the public right-of-way may be moved/removed
by the City for municipal purposes (i.e. code enforcement, snow removal,
traffic issues, maintenance, etc.). Right-of-way along Highway 61/7th Avenue is
under the jurisdiction of the Minnesota Department of Transportation.
   Subd. 11. Sign Standards by District.
      A. Signs Permitted in the R1, R2, and R3 Zoning Districts.
         1. For home occupations permitted in residential zoning districts, one
(1) sign not to exceed four (4) square feet and not more than four (4) feet in
height is allowed.
         2. Clubs, lodges, civic and religious organizations, schools,
churches, synagogues, or other public or private non-residential uses allowed
in residential areas are permitted to have one (1) sign not to exceed thirty-
two (32) feet in size and six (6) feet in height. Signs must be externally
illuminated with downward focused lighting.
         3. Apartment buildings, housing developments or subdivisions are
permitted one (1) sign, not to exceed thirty-two (32) square feet or six (6)
feet in height. If lit, the sign(s) must be externally illuminated with
downward focused lighting.
         4. No other signs are allowed in R1, R2, and R3 Districts.
         5. On-premise electronic message centers shall be prohibited in R1,
R2, and R3 Districts.
         6. Permanent and temporary electronic scoreboards may be allowed in
recreation areas where athletic events occur upon approval by the Planning
Commission and are to be used only during athletic and other organized events.
      B. Signs Permitted in the Parks and Recreation and Park Preserve
Districts.
         1. No signs other than informational and identification signs relating
to the facilities, structures or activities related to permitted uses shall be
permitted.
         2. On-premise electronic message centers advertising commercial
products or services shall be prohibited in the PR and PP Districts.
         3. Permanent and temporary electronic scoreboards may be allowed in
the Parks and Recreation District upon approval by the Planning Commission and
are to be used only during athletic and other organized events.
      C. Signs Permitted in the I1 and I2 Zoning Districts.
         1. No more than two (2) wall signs are allowed on a property, except
where otherwise permitted in this Section.
         2. No more than one (1) monument sign is allowed on a property.
         3. Signs must be externally illuminated with downward focused
lighting.
         4. On-premise electronic message centers shall be allowed in the I1
and I2 Districts. On-premise electronic message centers shall be limited to
fifteen (15) square feet or thirty percent (30%) of total signage whichever is
lesser.
         5. Table of permitted signs and sign area:
 
Total      Maximum Sign Maximum Sign  Maximum Sign  Maximum Sign  Maximum Sign
Signage    Area Wall,   Area          Area Monument Height        Height
           Canopy       Freestanding                Freestanding  Monument
2 sq. ft.  15% of
per lineal building
foot of    facade upon  Not permitted 75 sq. ft.    Not permitted 8 ft.
frontage   which it is
(max 200   located
ft.)
 
      D. Signs Permitted in the IW District. Signs as permitted and regulated
for the uses in the Industrial Districts as set forth above.
      E. Signs Permitted in the B1-A District.
         1. The intent of this Section is to encourage and permit signage that
supports the "Old Town" nature of this area, that fits the character of
individual buildings and businesses, Two Harbors/Lake Superior natural and
historic themes, and the mixed highway/historic nature. Certain signage
proposals within this district may be reviewed by the Planning Commission in
order to ensure the intent of this Section is met.
         2. Table of permitted signs and sign area:
 
              Maximum Sign Maximum Sign Maximum    Maximum Sign
Total Signage Area Wall,   Area         Sign Area  Height       Maximum Sign
              Canopy, or   Freestanding Monument   Freestanding Height Monument
              Marquee
1.25 sq. ft.  10% of
per lineal    building
foot of       facade upon  25 sq. ft.   25 sq. ft. 10 ft.       6 ft.
frontage (max which it is
125 ft.)      located
 
         3. Prohibited signs within the B1-A district:
            (a) Internally illuminated signs;
            (b) Roof signs extending above the peak of the roof; or
            (c) Exterior neon signs.
         4. No more than two (2) wall signs are allowed for any property,
except where otherwise allowed in this Section or by approval of the Planning
Commission after design review.
         5. No more than one (1) freestanding sign is allowed for any property,
except where otherwise allowed in this Section or by approval of the Planning
Commission after design review.
         6. Projecting signs shall not project more than six (6) feet from a
building and must not be more than eight (8) square feet in area.
         7. Lettering on awning signs is restricted to the side panels or the
front drop.
         8. Signs within the B1-A District shall have faces made of metal,
wood, or any other solid materials that have the appearance of wood or metal
and reflect the intent of the district.
         9. On-premise electronic message centers shall be prohibited in the
B1-A District except where provided for gas stations under Subd. 7. Subsection
M.4.
         10. Design Review by Planning Commission. Signs within the B1-A land
use district must be reviewed by the Planning Commission if any one (1) of the
following is proposed:
            (a) Three (3) or more wall signs for a single property;
            (b) Any one (1) wall sign exceeding more than ten percent (10%) of
the building façade on which it is located.
            (c) Rooftop signage;
            (d) A freestanding sign greater than ten (10) feet in area; or
            (e) Professionally prepared murals depicting Lake Superior, Two
Harbors historical or business scenes, not containing business verbal messages
or business names.
         11. Approval/Denial of Permit. Any sign reviewed by the Planning
Commission within the B1-A District shall meet the intent of signage within
this zoning district.
            (a) Once the Zoning Administrator has determined that the permit
application is complete and requires design review by the Planning Commission,
the Planning Commission must complete its design review and provide its report
and recommendation to the Zoning Administrator within forty-five (45) days.
            (b) Upon approval of the design by the Planning Commission, the
Zoning Administrator or Building Official shall be responsible for determining
if the sign meets all other requirements of this Section.
            (c) If the proposed sign meets all requirements, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue the permit. The Zoning Administrator must approve or
deny the permit within sixty (60) days if a determination that the permit
application is complete. If the Zoning Administrator takes no action within
such time period then the permit application shall be deemed to be approved.
            (d) In the event the Planning Commission recommends against the
issuance of a Sign Permit, the Planning Commission shall furnish the applicant
and the Zoning Administrator with a copy of recommendations for changes
necessary to be made before the Planning Commission will reconsider the
application.
         12. Appeal. Any individual having a legal interest in property
affected by the Planning Commission's decision pursuant to this Section shall
have a right to appeal the decision to the Board of Zoning Appeals for review
pursuant to provisions of Subd. 3, Subsection E. of this Section.
      F. Signs Permitted in the B-1 District.
         1. Table of permitted signs and sign area:
   Parcels zoned B-1 with frontage on 7th Avenue:
 
            Maximum Sign  Maximum Sign               Maximum Sign Maximum Sign
Total       Area Wall,    Area         Maximum Sign  Height       Height
Signage     Canopy, or    Freestanding Area Monument Freestanding Monument
            Marquee
1.5 sq. ft.
per lineal  15% of
foot of     building wall 80 sq. ft.   80 sq. ft.    20 ft.       8 ft.
frontage    upon which it
(max 150    is located
ft.)
 
   Parcels zoned B-1 with no frontage on 7th Avenue:
 
              Maximum Sign  Maximum Sign Maximum    Maximum Sign Maximum Sign
Total         Area Wall,    Area         Sign Area  Height       Height
Signage       Canopy, or    Freestanding Monument   Freestanding Monument
              Marquee
1.5 sq. ft.   15% of
per lineal    building wall
foot of       upon which it 25 sq. ft.   50 sq. ft. 10 ft.       8 ft.
frontage (max is located
150 ft.)
 
         2. Projecting signs shall not project more than six (6) feet from a
building and must not be more than eight (8) square feet in area.
         3. No more than two (2) wall signs are allowed on a property, except
where otherwise allowed in this Section.
         4. No more than one (1) freestanding sign is allowed on a property.
         5. Professionally prepared murals depicting Lake Superior, Two Harbors
history or business scenes, not containing business verbal messages or business
names are permitted after design review by the Planning Commission.
         6. External and internally illuminated signs are allowed. External
illumination must be downward focused.
         7. On-premise electronic message centers shall be allowed in the B-
1 District. On-premise electronic message centers shall be limited to forty
(40) square feet or fifty percent (50%) of total signage, whichever is lesser.
      G. Signs Permitted in the B2 and MUW Zoning District.
         1. It is the intent of this Section to encourage and permit signs that
enhance the historic nature of the downtown and of the City, are of natural
materials and which fit the character of each business and building.
         2. Table of permitted signs and sign area:
 
              Maximum Sign  Maximum Sign Maximum    Maximum Sign Maximum Sign
Total         Area Wall,    Area         Sign Area  Height       Height
Signage       Canopy, or    Freestanding Monument   Freestanding Monument
              Marquee
1.25 sq. ft.  10% of
per lineal    building wall
foot of       upon which it 25 sq. ft.   50 sq. ft. 10 ft.       8 ft.
frontage (max is located
125 ft.)
 
         3. Projecting signs, including canopy and wall signs, shall not
project more than six (6) feet from a building.
         4. No more than two (2) wall signs are allowed on a property, except
where otherwise allowed in this Section.
         5. No more than one (1) freestanding sign is allowed on a property.
         6. Professionally prepared murals depicting Lake Superior, Two Harbors
history or business scenes, not containing business verbal messages or business
names are permitted after design review by the Planning Commission.
         7. External and internally illuminated signs are allowed. External
illumination must be downward focused.
         8. On-premise electronic message centers shall be allowed in the B2
District. On-premise electronic message centers shall be limited to fifteen
(15) square feet or thirty percent (30%) of signage whichever is lesser.
         9. On-premise electronic message centers may be allowed in the MUW
District upon approval by the Planning Commission. New MUW developments shall
include on-premise electronic message centers in the original conditional use
permit application. Additions to existing on-premise electronic message centers
may be approved by Planning Commission review. On-premise electronic message
centers shall be limited to fifteen (15) square feet or thirty percent (30%) of
signage whichever is lesser.
      H. Signs Permitted in the MA Zoning District.
         1. It is the intent of this district to allow signage that provides
necessary information to users of facilities in the district while limiting
impact on nearby parks and recreation and residential facilities.
         2. On-premise electronic message centers shall be prohibited in the MA
District.
         3. For each major facility, hospital, clinic, care facility, or
medical office complex an on-premise system of monument and wall signs totaling
not more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet calling attention to
entrances, emergency rooms, special facilities, and parking locations within
the complex are allowed. Monument signs may not exceed eight (8) feet in
height. For properties with two (2) tenants: One (1) wall sign per tenant
identifying the name of the tenant’s business or operations not to exceed
thirty-two (32) square feet. Informational and directional signage is not
included in this size calculation. External and internal illuminated signs are
allowed. External illumination must be downward focused.
      I. Sign Provision for New Zoning Districts. In the event that new zoning
districts are created, the sign provisions of the districts from which the new
district was created shall apply unless sign provisions for the new district
are explicitly included within the zoning or sign ordinance.
   Subd. 12. Separability. Should any section, clause or provision of this
Section be declared by the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the
validity of the Section as a whole or part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid.
Source: City Code         Source: Ordinance No. 3      Source: Ordinance No. 7
Effective Date: 06-01-2000   Effective Date: 06-13-2001      Effective Date:
07-10-2007
Source: Ordinance No. 34      Source: Ordinance No. 48      Source: Ordinance
No. 69
Effective Date: 03-29-2006      Effective Date: 02-06-2009      Effective Date:
01-18-2012
Source: Ordinance No. 70      Source: Ordinance No. 71
Effective Date: 03-14-2012      Effective Date: 03-14-2012
SEC. 4.41. RENTAL PROPERTY.
      Subd. 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to protect the public
health, safety, and welfare of citizens of the City who reside in units
furnished to them for the payment of a rental charge to another and at the same
time recognize the financial and administrative limitations of the City. This
Section provides for the enforcement of residential rental unit maintenance
standards and corrections of violations of law, nuisances and other
disturbances and disorders involving residential rental units within the City
when the City receives complaints of such violations.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this Section, the terms defined
in this Subsection shall have the meanings given them in the subdivisions which
follow:
         1. "Basement." A portion of a building located partly underground, but
having less than three-fourths (3/4) of its clear floor-to-ceiling height below
the average grade of the adjoining ground. One (1) room may qualify as a
basement.
         2. "Dwelling." Any building or portion thereof which is designed for
or used for residential purposes; provided, that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
         3. "Dwelling Unit." Any room or group of rooms located within a
dwelling and forming a single habitable unit equipped and intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
         4. "Extermination." The control and elimination of insects, rodents or
other pests by eliminating their harborage places, by removing or making
inaccessible materials that may serve as their food, by poisoning, spraying,
fumigating, trapping or by any other recognized and legal pest elimination
methods approved by the health officer of the County Board of Health.
         5. "Flood Area-Dwelling Unit." The area inside the exterior or fire
walls of a building, exclusive of vent shafts, court and public areas.
         6. "Floor Area-Room." The next area within the finished walls of a
room.
         7. "Habitable Room." A room or enclosed floor space used or intended
to be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding
bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, pantries, foyers or
communicating corridors, closets, storage spaces or bomb shelters.
         8. "Hotel." Every building or structure kept, used, maintained,
advertised or held out to the public to be a place where sleeping or rooming
accommodations are furnished to the general public for a shorter period of time
than one (1) week, with or without meals.
         9. "Housekeeping Unit." A room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking
and eating which does not contain, within such unit, a toilet, lavatory and
bathtub or shower.
         10. "Landlord." An owner, agent of an owner or other person who rents
or leases a dwelling, dwelling unit, housekeeping unit or rooming unit to a
tenant under a rental agreement.
         11. "Multiple Dwelling." A building designed for or occupied
exclusively by three (3) or more families.
         12. "Occupant." Any person, over one (1) year of age, living,
sleeping, cooking or eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling
unit, housekeeping unit or rooming unit.
         13. "Operate." To charge a rental charge for the use of a unit in a
dwelling.
         14. "Operator." Any person who has charge, care or control of a
building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units are let.
         15. "Owner." Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with
others:
            (a) Shall have legal title to any dwelling or dwelling unit, with
or without accompanying actual possession thereof; or
            (b) Shall have charge, care or control of any dwelling or dwelling
unit, as owner or agent of the owner, prime tenant, or as executor, executrix,
administrator, administratrix, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner.
Any such person thus representing the actual owner shall be bound to comply
with the provisions of this Section, to the same extent as if such person were
the owner.
         16. "Person." Any individual, firm, corporation, association or
partnership.
         17. "Plumbing." All of the following supplied facilities and
equipment: Gas pipes, gas-burning equipment, water pipes, garbage disposal
units, waste pipes, water closets, sinks, installed dishwashers, lavatories,
bathtubs, shower baths, installed clothes washing machines, catch basins,
drains, vents and any other similar supplied fixtures together with all
connections to water, sewer or gas lines.
         18. "Rental Agreement." An oral or written agreement covering a
definite or indefinite period of time of one (1) week or more between a
landlord and a tenant for the renting or leasing of a dwelling, dwelling unit,
housekeeping unit or rooming unit.
         19. "Rental Unit." Any dwelling unit or housekeeping unit that is
rented or leased or offered for rent or lease under a rental agreement.
         20. "Rooming House." Any dwelling or that part of any dwelling housing
five (5) or more roomers but not including licensed nursing homes operating
under the Laws of Minnesota.
         21. "Rooming Unit." Any room or group of rooms forming a single
habitable unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping but not for
cooking or eating purposes.
         22. "Solid Waste." Garbage, refuse or any other discarded solid
organic or inorganic materials.
         23. "Supplied." Paid for, furnished or provided by or under the
control of the owner or operator.
         24. "Temporary Housing." Any tent, trailer or structure used for human
shelter which is designed to be transportable, and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
         25. "Tenant." An occupant who occupies a dwelling, dwelling unit,
housekeeping unit or rooming unit pursuant to a written or oral agreement with
a landlord covering a definite or indefinite period of one (1) week or more.
         26. "Building Official." Agent designated by the City of Two Harbors
for inspection of buildings and other items relating to this Section.
         27. "Water and Sewer System." Whenever the phrase "water and sewer
system approved by the building inspector" appears in this Section, it shall be
defined to include private wells, public water utility mains, private septic
tanks, sewage disposal systems and public sewer mains.
         28. Meaning of Certain Words. Whenever the words "dwelling," "dwelling
unit," "housekeeping unit," "rooming house," "rooming unit," or "premises" are
used in this Section, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words "or any part thereof."
      Subd. 3. Exemptions. This Section shall not apply to hospital units or
rooms, nursing homes, retirement homes, hotels, motels, or other similar rental
space which is otherwise licensed by the State of Minnesota or the City of Two
Harbors.
      Subd. 4. License Issued. The City of Two Harbors hereby issues a general
license to operate a multiple dwelling or rooming house or to lease or offer to
rent or lease any rental unit in the City of Two Harbors to any person now or
hereafter conducting such activities within the City. Such license shall remain
effective unless terminated as provided herein.
      Subd. 5. Notice of Uniform Housing Code. Notice shall be provided
annually by the City to all utility customers of the City that the City has
adopted the Uniform Housing Code, that copies of the Uniform Housing Code are
available in City Hall, that if anyone believes that their rental unit does not
meet the requirements of the Uniform Housing Code that he or she may advise the
City of his or her concerns and the City will investigate the concerns and take
appropriate actions to resolve the concerns.
      Subd. 6. Action on Complaints. Complaints received by the City with
respect to the compliance of rental units with the Uniform Housing Code will be
referred to the Building Official of the City for further investigation and
processing pursuant to the terms, provisions and procedures of the Uniform
Housing Code. A landlord shall not terminate a lease with a tenant, or bring an
action to evict a tenant based solely upon the fact that the tenant made a
complaint pursuant to this Section.
      Subd. 7. Specific License Required. In the event a complaint made by a
person who is occupying a rental unit in the City is not able to be resolved by
the Building Official pursuant to the Uniform Housing Code within ninety (90)
days, then in that event, the Building Official may order the owner of the
rental unit to obtain a specific license for the continued operation of the
rental unit. In such event, the owner of such rental unit shall, within ten
(10) days of receipt of such order from the Building Official apply for a
specific license to operate such rental unit. Thereafter such person shall
proceed in accordance with Subdivisions 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 as such
provisions are applicable to such application.
      Subd. 8. General License Revoked. In the event that a owner of a rental
unit does not obtain a specific license pursuant to Subdivision 7 hereof within
sixty (60) days of applying for such specific license, then in that event, the
City may upon ten (10) days written notice terminate the general license
provided to such owner under Subdivision 4 and such owner shall cease
conducting a rental operation as of the effective date of the termination of
its general license and shall not resume conducting a rental operation until
such person obtains a specific license for such rental activity.
      Subd. 9. Specific License.
         A. Duration. The duration of the specific license shall be for a
period of four (4) years.
         B. Procedure for Obtaining Specific Licenses. All specific licenses
shall be issued by the City. Applications for specific licenses shall be made
by the owner or an agent of the owner of the dwelling to the building official
designated by the City. Such applications shall be accompanied by the required
specific license fee. Such application shall specify the following:
            1. Name and address of the owner of the rental dwelling. In cases
where the owner of a rental dwelling lives outside Lake County limits, the
registration shall be made by an operator who shall be legally responsible for
compliance with this and other ordinances and such operator shall live in Lake
County.
            2. Name and address of any operator or agent actively managing said
rental dwelling.
            3. Name and address of all partners if the registrant is a
partnership.
            4. Name and address of all officers of the corporation if the
registrant is a corporation.
            5. Name and address of the vendee if the rental dwelling is owned
or being sold on a contract for deed.
            6. Legal address of the rental dwelling.
            7. Number and kind of units within the rental dwelling classified
as dwelling units, tenement units, or rooming units or other.
            8. Height of the rental dwelling in stories.
            9. Construction of exterior of building classified as wood or
other.
         C. Specific License Fee. The specific license fee shall be in the
amount set by the City Council through a resolution from time to time.
         D. Procedure for Issuing Specific License. No specific licenses shall
be issued until the appropriate fee has been submitted and inspection has been
conducted by the Building Official. If the inspection by the Building Official
discloses that there are violations of the Uniform Housing Code for the City in
the building, the Building Official may either set a time frame which must not
exceed ninety (90) days, for the correction of such violations or may deny the
specific license. If the Building Official sets a time frame for correction of
any violations, the Building Official must be provided access to such a
dwelling for the purposes of inspection at said time. After reinspection, the
Building Inspector may grant the specific license if the violations have been
corrected, set another time frame for correction of the violation or deny the
specific license subject to licensee's right of appeal. Failure to provide
access shall result in denial of a specific license subject to appeal until
inspection is permitted. If the specific license is denied, the Building
Inspector shall provide written notice to the owner and the decision of the
Building Official may be appealed as set forth herein. No specific license
shall be issued unless the premises have been found by the Building Official to
comply with the provisions of this Section. It shall be unlawful for the owner
to rent, lease or otherwise offer the rental unit until a specific license has
been issued. If only a portion of a building is licensed no unlicensed portion
shall be rented and renting of any unlicensed portion shall be grounds for
revocation of the entire specific license.
         E. Applications for Renewals of Specific Licenses. Renewals of
specific licenses shall only be granted after inspection by the Building
Official provided an application for renewal is made at least sixty (60) days
prior to the time the current specific license is scheduled to expire by
filling out the required renewal form furnished by the Building Inspector and
submitting the required specific license renewal fee.
      Subd. 10. Specific Licenses, Terms and Conditions.
         A. Specific License Displayed. Each tenant shall be provided with a
copy of the specific license.
         B. Specific License Transferable. A change in ownership or the
managing agency of the dwelling shall not terminate the existing specific
license. A transfer of the specific license may occur provided the information
required by Subd. 9, Subsection B.1. through 6. is provided within twenty (20)
days of the change in ownership. If such information is not provided, a new
specific license will be required of the new owner.
         C. Inspection of Specific Licensed Premises. All premises subject to
the specific licensing requirement shall be made available for inspection by
the Building Inspector at a reasonable time. If the Building Official is denied
access to any specific licensed premises, the Building Official, in his or her
discretion, may suspend the specific license upon providing written notice to
the owner, subject to the owner's right of appeal. Such suspension shall remain
in effect until inspection is permitted or if the Building Official's decision
is overturned on appeal.
         D. Suspension or Revocation of Specific Licensed Premises. If the
Building Official, upon inspection of the specific licensed premises,
determines that any of the rental units do not conform to the requirements of
this Section or any other regulations of the City, he or she shall serve
written notice upon the owner informing him or her of the nature of the
violation and setting a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety (90) days,
in which to correct the violation or to vacate the premises. At the end of said
time, the Building Inspector shall reinspect the premises and if the violation
is not corrected or the building is not vacated, he or she may suspend or
revoke the specific license of the entire dwelling, subject to owner's right of
appeal. In the case of suspension, the owner may, after such suspension,
request reinstatement of the specific license of the entire dwelling or to
rental units within the dwelling not affected by the violation. The Building
Inspector shall reinstate the specific license of the entire dwelling if upon
reinspection, he or she determines that the violation has been corrected. In
case of request for partial reinstatement, the specific license shall be
reinstated upon vacation of the premises affected by the violation. In all
cases where the building is reinspected by the Building Official on more than
one (1) occasion, the owner must pay reinspection fees to be set by the City
Council by resolution.
         E. Suspension or Revocation Notice to be Displayed. If the Building
Official suspends or revokes a specific license, written notice of such
suspension shall be served on the owner and the same shall be posted in a
conspicuous location in the dwelling or rental unit, and both such notices
shall order the vacation of the dwelling or the rental unit within a reasonable
time. After receipt of such notice, and if no appeal is taken within the time
period allotted for appeals, it shall be unlawful for the owner to rent, lease
or otherwise offer the rental unit until the specific license is reinstated.
The owner shall, within ten (10) business days of receiving such notice of
suspension, give notice in writing to his or her tenants stating a vacation
order was issued by the Building Official.
      Subd. 11. Appeals.
         A. Timing. Any person who receives an order from the Building Official
denying, suspending or revoking his or her specific license may appeal such a
decision to the City Council in writing within fifteen (15) business days after
the day the notice was served. The Building Official shall set a time and place
for the appeal and notify the owner of the time and place. No appeal shall be
set for a hearing less than fifteen (15) days or later than fifty-five (55)
days from the date the appeal is filed.
         B. No Adverse Action to be Taken if Appeal Filed. If an appeal is
filed by the owner, no denial, suspension or revocation shall take effect until
after the appeal is heard and the appeal process is otherwise exhausted.
         C. Procedure. The owner may be represented by counsel, may produce
witnesses, experts and may testify in his or her own behalf. The City Council
may administer oaths, take testimony, and subpoena witnesses and papers at such
hearing.
         D. Decision. After hearing all the evidence, and after due
deliberation, the City Council shall within thirty (30) days of the hearing,
affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the Building Official. Notice of the
City Council's decision shall be served on the appellant within forty-eight
(48) hours after such decision is rendered. The decision of the City Council
shall be deemed final in all respects.
      Subd. 12. Notices.
         A. Notice by the Applicant. No specific license shall be issued unless
the applicant designates in writing to the Building Official an address where
notices issued by the Building Official may be delivered.
         B. Notice by the Building Official. All notices issued by the Building
Official regarding licenses or items relating to shall be delivered personally
or sent via certified mail to the address specified by the owner. Service shall
be deemed complete once the notice is either personally delivered or received
by certified mail.
      Subd. 13. Penalty. Any person violating any provisions of this Section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90)
days, or both.
Source: Ordinance No. 2      Source: Ordinance No. 42
Effective Date: 09-01-2001   Effective Date: 03-27-2008
SEC. 4.42. SHORT TERM RENTALS
      Subd. 1. Statement of Policy. 
         A. Preamble. The City of Two Harbors (“City”) believes that promoting
the public health, safety and welfare of its citizens mandates the existence of
a short-term-rental licensing and maintenance program that corrects substandard
conditions and maintains a standard for short-term-rental housing. It is the
purpose of this Section to only allow short-term rentals in certain
circumstances to ensure they remain decent, safe and sanitary, and are operated
and maintained so as not to become a nuisance to the neighborhood or to become
an influence that fosters blight and deterioration or creates a disincentive to
reinvestment in the community. The operation of short-term-rental housing is a
business enterprise that entails certain responsibilities. Short-term-rental-
permit holders are responsible for taking such reasonable steps as are
necessary to insure that the citizens of the City who reside adjacent to such
housing may pursue the quiet enjoyment of the normal activities of life in
surroundings that are safe, secure and sanitary.
         B. Purpose.  The purpose of this Section is to regulate and permit
short-term-rental permits in the City.
         C. Location. To accomplish the purpose of this Section, the City
determines that short-term-rental permits shall only be allowed in B1 and B2
commercial zoning districts, except for existing short-term-rental-permit
holders in residential districts addressed in Subd. 5.G. below.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
terms shall have the meanings given them in this Subdivision, unless the
language or context clearly indicates a different meaning is intended.
         A. “Dwelling.” Any building, or portion thereof, designed or used for
residential purposes.
         B. “Dwelling Unit.” One (1) or more rooms in a dwelling designed for
occupancy by one (1) family for living purposes, and having its own cooking and
sanitary facilities.
         C. “Housing Stock.” The total number of dwelling units located within
city limits. This number is calculated based on the number of building permits
issued for new construction of a dwelling unit as well as by building permits
issued for demolition of dwelling units by October 31 of each year. A
certificate of occupancy must be issued prior to a new dwelling unit being
included in this calculation.
         D. “Local Agent.” A person identified by the owner who is available to
respond twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, to any emergency
or complaint involving the short-term rental.
         E. “Occupant.” Any person who occupies a short-term-rental dwelling
unit or part of the same.
         F. “Operate.” To charge a fee for the use or occupancy of space in a
dwelling or an entire dwelling unit.
         G. “Owner.” Any person having a legal or equitable interest in the
property upon which the dwelling or dwelling unit is located, or in the
dwelling or dwelling unit itself.
         H. “Short-Term-Rental-Dwelling Unit.” A dwelling unit rented or leased
for a period of less than thirty (30) consecutive days.
         I. “Short-Term-Rental Permit.” The permit issued by the City allowing
the rental or lease of a short-term-rental-dwelling unit.
         J. “Zoning Administrator.” The official designated by the City to
regulate and enforce the relevant provisions of the City Code.
      Subd. 3. Permit Required. No person shall operate a short-term-rental-
dwelling unit (hereinafter “STR unit”) within the City without first obtaining
a short-term-rental permit (hereinafter “STR permit”) in compliance with the
provisions of this Section. A STR permit must be obtained for each STR unit,
except that two (2) or more STR units located within a single dwelling and
having a common owner and a common property identification number shall require
only a single STR permit.
      Subd 4. Exceptions. No STR permit is required for hotels or motels as
defined in Chapter 11, Section
11.80 of the City Code.
      Subd. 5. Permit Application.  
         A. Permit Application. All applications for STR permits under this
Section shall be made on forms established by the City. All questions and
information required by the application shall be answered fully and completely.
The application shall be executed by the owner of the STR unit if such owner is
a natural person or, if the owner is a business entity, by a person authorized
to legally bind the entity.
         B. Certificate of Inspection.  No STR permit shall be issued until the
applicant has obtained a certificate of inspection from the Minnesota
Department of Health.
            1.  The applicant shall arrange for an inspection of the STR unit
proposed to be permitted by the Minnesota Department of Health to determine
whether the dwelling and STR unit comply with the requirements of this Section
and all other applicable federal, state and local laws. Lake County administers
all inspections of behalf of Minnesota Department of Health. Applicants should
contact the Lake County Health Inspector to arrange an inspection and submit a
copy of the completed inspection with the permit application.
            2.  All dwellings and STR units proposed to be permitted under this
Section shall comply in all respects with all local, state and federal building
codes, regulations and standards.
         C. Application and Permit Fee.
            1. Application Fee. The STR-permit application form must be
accompanied by payment in full of the required permit application fee,
nonrefundable to the applicant, to cover the City’s costs in processing the
application.
            2. The fee amounts will be determined by the Council and listed in
the City’s fee schedule.
         D. Short-Term-Rental-Permit Cap.
            1. Cap. The total number of STR permits shall not exceed four
percent (4%) of the total housing stock as calculated as of October 31 of every
year. This cap does not include the existing STR permits. These existing STR
permits will be allowed to renew as long as timely compliance with Subd. 5.E.
of this Section is followed. No new STR permits will be issued unless and until
the current number of STR permits falls below four percent (4%) of the total
housing stock. Properties located in the B1 Commercial Zone with frontage along
7th Avenue are exempt from the cap.
            2. Administration of the Cap.
               a. STR-Permit Renewal or New Application. Provided an existing
STR permit is in good standing and is renewed in accordance with this Section,
the STR permit will be processed and included in the cap. If an existing STR-
permit holder fails to submit a renewal application prior to the deadline set
forth in Subd. 5.E., the application will be treated as a new permit and
processed on a first come, first served basis, subject to the STR-permit cap.
New applications will also be processed on a first come, first served basis,
subject to the STR-permit cap. Any time that the number of STR permits reaches
the cap, all outstanding permit applications, either in process or received,
will be placed on a wait list.
               b. For the purpose of this Section, a “STR Permit in Good
Standing” shall mean a permit with no violations, no unpaid fines, taxes or
assessments, and no verified complaints.
               c. Wait List. The City will maintain a wait list for
applications received or in process. Applications will be processed based on
the date of receipt, processing the oldest application first.
         E. Issuance or Denial.
            1. Issuance. The Zoning Administrator shall issue a STR permit if
the dwelling, the STR unit and the application are found to be in compliance
with the provisions of this Section, and all required fees are paid.
            2. Denial. The Zoning Administrator may deny a STR permit on the
same grounds for which a permit may be suspended or revoked as set forth in
Subd. 7 of this Section. Written notice of the denial shall be mailed to the
STR-permit applicant at the address listed on the application via certified
mail. An applicant may appeal a denial by submitting a hearing request to the
Zoning Administrator within twenty (20) days of the date of the certified mail
domestic return receipt. If a hearing request is not received by the Zoning
Administrator within such time, the applicant's right to a hearing shall be
deemed waived. If timely requested, the hearing shall be held in accordance
with the procedures set forth in Subd. 7 of this Section.
         F. STR-Permit Term and Renewal.  All STR permits expire at midnight on
December 31 of each year. To be eligible for renewal, applications for renewal
must be received by the City Clerk, Two Harbors City Hall, 522 1st Avenue, Two
Harbors, MN, on or before 4:30 p.m. on November 1 of each year, and must
contain the information required by the application and this Section. The City
shall issue or deny a renewal application in accordance with the provisions for
issuance or denial of an initial permit set forth in Subd. 5.D of this Section.
         G. Existing Permits in Residential Zoning Districts. The owners of
existing STR permits in residential zoning districts shall be allowed to renew
those permits pursuant to this Section. Failure to renew these existing STR
permits by providing a renewal application to the City Clerk, Two Harbors City
Hall, 522 1st Avenue, Two Harbors, MN on or before 4:30 p.m. on November 1 each
year shall result in the automatic termination of that STR permit. No new STR
permits will be allowed in any residential district in the City. New STR-permit
applications and untimely applications for the renewal of STR permits in
residential districts are prohibited and will be denied. New STR-permit
applications and applications for the renewal of STR permits from new owners or
from the heirs, transferees or assignees of existing STR-permit owners in
residential districts are prohibited and will be denied.
         H. No Vested Right. STR permits granted hereunder constitute a
revocable, limited right. Nothing herein shall be construed as granting a
vested property right. The City may revoke any permit granted under this
Section for failure to comply with any requirements set forth herein.
      Subd. 6. General Performance Standards.
         A. Non-Transferable.  STR permits issued under this section are non-
transferable. Every STR permit shall automatically terminate upon the sale,
transfer, assignment or conveyance of the dwelling, dwelling unit or property
upon which they are located by the owner or STR-permit holder.
         B. Number of Bedrooms. Each STR permit shall indicate the number of
dwelling units that are contained in the dwelling, as well as the number of
bedrooms in each dwelling unit. No STR-permit holder or owner shall advertise
the dwelling as containing any more than the identified number of dwelling
units, or the number of bedrooms in the dwelling units.
         C. Limit on the Number of Guests. The maximum number of transient
guests permitted to stay within a STR unit at any one (1) time shall be one (1)
person, plus the sum of the number of bedrooms contained in the primary
residence multiplied by two (2), up to a maximum of ten (10). Such sum shall
include both adults and children. No more than four (4) bedrooms shall be
leased or rented in a STR unit.
         D. Signage. Commercial signage is only allowed on short-term-rental-
dwelling units located in a Bl or B2 commercial zone, in compliance with
Chapter
4.40 of the City Code.
         E. Events.  Events are not allowed to be hosted by non-owners on the
property licensed by the STR permit.
         F. Parking. A property with a STR unit shall provide a minimum of two
(2) off-street parking stalls for guests. The maximum amount of vehicles
allowed at the property shall be limited to the number of off-street parking
spaces provided. To be valid, off-street parking shall meet all applicable
requirements set forth in the City Code.
         G. Occupant Eligibility. The primary overnight and daytime occupant of
a STR unit must be an adult, eighteen (18) years of age or older. This adult
shall provide a telephone number to the owner and be accessible to the owner
via telephone at all times.
         H. Advertising. All advertising for STR units shall include the City-
issued permit number.
         I. House Number Visible. Property containing a STR unit must have a
house number that is unobstructed and visible from the adjacent street.
         J. Garbage. The owner shall ensure that appropriate solid-waste-
storage bins are available for use by guests, which shall be stored out of
public view.
         K. Additional occupancy on any property licensed by a STR permit by
use of recreational vehicles, tents, accessory structures, garages, boathouses,
pole barns, sheds, fish houses or similar structures is declared unlawful and
strictly prohibited.
         L. The owner shall keep a report detailing all occupants in the STR
unit by recording the full name, address, phone number, and vehicle-license-
plate numbers of adult occupants using the property. A copy of this report
shall be provided to the Zoning Administrator or law enforcement upon request.
         M. Lodging Tax. The sate legislature has authorized the imposition of
a tax upon short-term-rental properties. The City has imposed such a lodging
tax to provide funding to stimulating tourism within the community. The lodging
tax is administered by the Minnesota Department of Revenue as per Section
6.50 of the City Code. It shall be the responsibility of the owner and STR-
permit holder to ensure that all lodging taxes are paid as required by the
Minnesota Department of Revenue.
      Subd 7. Suspension or Revocation of Short-Term-Rental Permit.
         A. Grounds for Suspension or Revocation.  The City may suspend or
revoke a STR permit issued under this Section. In dwellings containing more
than one STR unit, the revocation or suspension may apply to one (1) or more
STR units in the sole discretion of the City. The following are grounds for the
denial, non-renewal, suspension or revocation of a STR permit:
            1. The STR permit was procured by misrepresentation of material
facts regarding the dwelling, STR unit or ownership of the same.
            2. The STR permit applicant or one acting on their behalf made oral
or written misstatements accompanying the application.
            3. The STR permit applicant has failed to comply with any condition
set forth in any other STR permit or approval granted by the City related to a
STR unit.
            4. The activities of the owner or the owner’s agent have created a
danger to the public health, safety or welfare.
            5. The STR unit contains conditions that may injure or endanger the
health, safety or welfare of any member of the public.
            6. The failure to pay any application, inspection, or permit fee
required by this Section.
            7. Any violation of this Section, any other provision of the City
Code, or other federal, state or local law or regulation applicable to the STR
unit.
            8. The failure to continuously comply with any condition required
of the applicant for the approval or renewal of the STR permit.
            9. Any violation by the owner or STR-unit occupant or guest of the
City Code or any state or federal criminal or civil rule, regulation, code or
law.
            10. Failure to comply with a property maintenance correction order
from the Building Official in the time required by the order.
            11. Failure to pay outstanding obligations pursuant to Section
2.76 of the City Code.
         B. Fines. In lieu of, or in addition to, suspending or revoking a STR
permit, the City may, in its sole discretion, impose a civil fine for any
violation of this Section in the amounts set forth in the in the City Fine
Schedule. All fines are payable to the City within thirty (30) days of their
imposition. Failure to timely pay any fine imposed will result in a late fee
equal to twenty-five percent (25%) of the fine and immediate revocation of the
STR permit to which the fine applies.
         C. Procedure.
            1. Notice. A suspension, revocation or fine shall be preceded by
written notice of violation from the Zoning Administrator to the owner and
permit holder, and an opportunity for a hearing by the City Council. The notice
of violation shall state the nature of the violation or grounds for fine,
suspension or revocation, and shall inform the owner and permit holder of the
right to request a hearing within twenty (20) days of the date of the certified
mail domestic return receipt to dispute the fine, suspension or revocation. The
notice of violation shall be mailed by regular mail to the owner and permit
holder’s last known address listed on the permit application. If a hearing
request is not received by the Zoning Administrator within twenty (20) days of
the date of the certified mail domestic return receipt, the owner and permit
holder’s right to a hearing shall be deemed waived. No fine, suspension or
revocation of a permit shall take effect until:
               a. The owner and permit holder’s time to request a hearing
expires; or
               b. If a hearing is requested, the date of mailing the decision
of the City Council to the owner and permit holder.
            2. Hearing. If a hearing is requested, the Zoning Administrator
shall provide written notice of hearing via certified mail to the owner and
permit holder of the date, time and place of the City Council meeting at which
the hearing will take place. The notice shall be mailed in the same matter as
the initial notice and shall be mailed no less than twenty (20) days and no
more than thirty (30) days prior to the hearing. The permit holder and the
Zoning Administrator shall be given an opportunity to be heard. The owner and/
or permit holder may be represented by counsel.
            3. Decision.  The City Council shall make findings based on the
evidence, and shall affirm, modify or deny the Zoning Administrator’s
recommendation to fine, revoke or suspend a STR permit. The City Council shall
issue its written decision within thirty (30) days following the date of the
hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the owner and permit holder of
the decision by regular mail. The decision shall specify the STR unit or units
to which it applies. Thereafter, and until a STR permit is reissued or
reinstated, no STR unit that has had its permit revoked or suspended may be re-
let or occupied. Revocation or suspension shall not excuse the owner and permit
holder from compliance with all terms of this Section for as long as any STR
unit in the dwelling is occupied.
         D. Permit Process after Revocation, Suspension, Denial or Non-Renewal.
After a STR permit has been denied, not renewed, revoked or suspended under
this Section, no STR permit may be issued for the affected STR unit until the
Zoning Administrator determines that the owner and/or STR-permit holder has
remedied the conditions identified by the City as the basis for its action. In
the case of revocation, the property upon which the STR unit is located shall
be ineligible for applying for a new permit for a period of twelve (12) months
from the date of revocation. An application to obtain a new permit for a STR
unit after the City has revoked, denied or declined to renew a permit, or for
reinstatement of a suspended permit, shall be accompanied by all fees required
by this Section.
         E. Effect of Revocation. Suspension, Denial or Non-Renewal. If a STR
permit is denied, not renewed, revoked or suspended, it shall be unlawful for
any individual or entity, including the owner or STR-permit holder, to operate
or thereafter permit the rental of the then-vacant or thereafter vacated STR
unit, until such time as a valid STR permit is obtained for the STR unit.
Issuance of a permit after revocation, suspension, denial or non-renewal shall
be made in the manner provided for in this Section.
      Subd 8. Penalties.
         A. A person or entity violating any provision of this Section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
         B.  In the event of a violation of this Section, and in addition to
any and all other remedies provided by law, the City shall be entitled to seek
injunctive relief or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such
violations or threatened violations.
      Source: Ordinance No. 114      Source: Ordinance No. 126
      Effective Date: 05-29-2018      Effective Date: 05-23-2022
(Sections 4.43 through 4.49, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 4.50. ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS.
      Subd. 1. Findings and Purpose. This Section is adopted based on the
following findings and for the following purposes:
         A. The purpose of this Section is to control, through licensing and
zoning regulations, certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental effect
on the character of the City's residential and commercial neighborhoods.
         B. The City Council makes the following findings about the effect
adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses have on the character of the City's
neighborhoods. In making the findings, the City Council accepts the
recommendations of the City Planning and Zoning Commission, who have studied
the experiences of other areas about such businesses. Such studies and
information reviewed are on file in the office of the City Administrator. Based
upon studies and findings, the City Council concludes:
            1. Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses can contribute to an
increase in crime in the area where such businesses are located. This can be a
burden to City crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services. In order
to lessen the burden upon crime prevention programs, all adult-uses and
sexually-oriented businesses, other than adult accessory uses, as defined and
regulated in and by this Section, shall be located in a newly designated I-1A
zone district.
            2. Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses can significantly
contribute to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can increase
neighborhood blight. These businesses also can impair the character and quality
of the residential housing in the area where such businesses are located. This
situation could lessen the amount of desirable housing for residents. In order
to lessen these burdens, all adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses, other
than adult accessory uses, as defined in and regulated by this Section, shall
be located in a newly designated I-1A zone district.
            3. Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses have adverse
secondary impacts of the types discussed above.
            4. It is necessary to provide for the special and express
regulation of businesses, establishments or commercial enterprises that operate
as adult body painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabarets, adult car
washes, adult companionship establishments, adult hotels or motels, adult
massage parlors or health clubs, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult
modeling studios, adult motion picture arcades or theaters, adult novelty
businesses, adult saunas and similar adult-oriented services operating under
different names to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to guard
against the inception and transmission of disease.
            5. The commercial enterprises such as the types described above and
all other similar establishments whose services include sessions offered to
adults conducted in private by members of the same or opposite sex, are
susceptible to operations contravening subverting or endangering the morals of
the City by being the site of acts of prostitution, illicit sex and occasions
of violent crimes, and thus requiring close inspection, licensing and
regulation.
            6. Control and regulation of commercial establishments of these
types, in view of the abuses often perpetrated, require intensive efforts by
the police department and other departments of the City. These types of
establishments can diminish the ability of the City to protect and promote the
general health, welfare, morals and safety of the City. It is necessary for the
City to provide services to all areas of the City. In order to reduce the
demand on law enforcement services and other government services, commercial
establishment of these types, other than adult accessory uses, as defined in
and regulated by this Section, shall be allowed only in the newly designated I-
1A zone district.
            7. The City Council will adopt land use regulations pursuant to
Ordinance No. 13-02 and the licensing regulations pursuant to this Section,
recognizing that it has an interest in the present and future character of the
City's residential and commercial neighborhoods. These regulations are to
lessen the detrimental and adverse effects adult uses and sexually-oriented
businesses have on adjacent land uses and to protect and promote the health,
safety and welfare of the residents of Two Harbors.
            8. It is not the intent of the City Council to prohibit adult uses
or sexually-oriented business establishments from having an opportunity to
locate in Two Harbors. It also is not the intent of the City Council to
regulate these businesses on the basis of content, but only on the basis of
likely adverse secondary effects.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purpose of this Section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         1. “Adult use” shall mean any or all of the following: adult body
painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabarets, adult car washes, adult
hotels or motels, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult health/sports clubs, adult saunas/steam
rooms/bath houses, adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation
parlors, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling
studios and all other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses and
places open to some or all members of the public, in person or via electronic
or Internet means, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas which the public could see. This definition does not apply to
the practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy
or podiatry by State-licensed or registered persons. Activities classified as
obscene, as defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section 617.241, as it may be
amended from time to time, are not lawful and are not included in the
definition of adult uses.
         2. “Adult use, accessory” means the offering of goods and/or services
classified as printed matter and/or video tapes on a limited scale that is
incidental to the primary business activity in the establishment and where such
items occupy no more than:
            (a)  Ten percent (10%) of the floor space of the establishment
dedicated to retail sales or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less;
and
            (b)  Ten percent (10%) of the wall space of the establishment
dedicated to retail sales or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
         3. “Adult use, principal” shall mean the offering of goods and/or
services classified as adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business
or establishment, and include but are not limited to the following:
            (a) “Adult body painting studio” shall mean an establishment or
business that provides the service of applying paint or other substance,
whether transparent or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such
body is wholly or partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
            (b) “Adult bookstore” shall mean an establishment, building or
business engaging in the barter, rental or sale of items or merchandise
consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audiotapes,
videotapes, computer or video disks, motion picture film or any other similar
materials, if one (1) or both of the areas described in this Subsection (b)
have products or materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matters depicting, describing or related to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
               (i) More than ten percent (10%) of the floor space of the
establishment dedicated to retail sales or more than one hundred (100) square
feet of floor space, whichever is smaller.
               (ii) More than ten percent (10%) of the internal wall space of
the establishment dedicated to retail sales or more than one hundred (100)
square feet of wall space, whichever is smaller.
            (c) “Adult cabaret” shall mean an establishment, building or
business that provides dancing or other live entertainment if such dancing or
other live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
the performance, presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified
sexual activities or of specified anatomical areas.
            (d) “Adult car wash” shall mean a wash facility for any type of
motor vehicle that allows employees, agents, independent contractors or persons
to appear in a state of partial or total nudity in terms of specified
anatomical areas.
            (e) “Adult companionship establishment” shall mean an establishment
or business if such establishment excludes minors because of age, or which
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
            (f) “Adult entertainment facility” shall mean a building or space
in which an admission is charged for entrance, or food or nonalcoholic
beverages are sold or intended for consumption, and in which may be observed
live presentation of entertainment distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
            (g) “Adult establishment” shall mean an establishment, building or
business engaging in any of the following activities or which uses any of the
following business procedures or practices, either:
               (i) Any business conducted exclusively for the patronage of
adults and about which minors are specifically excluded from patronage either
by law or by the operators of such business; or
               (ii) Any business that offers its patrons services, products or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
               (iii) Specifically included in the term, but without limitation
are adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult health clubs, adult saunas, adult
companionship establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult car
washes, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling
studios, adult hotel or motel and adult body painting studios.
            (h) “Adult hotel or motel” shall mean a hotel or motel from which
minors are specifically excluded from patronage and in which material is
presented that is distinguished or characterized by matter depicting,
describing or relating to sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
            (i) “Adult massage parlor, health/sport club” shall restrict minors
because of age and provide the services of massage, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
            (j) “Adult mini-motion picture theater” shall mean a business,
building or establishment in an enclosed building with a capacity for less than
fifty (50) persons used for presenting visual media material if:
               (i) Such business as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
virtue of age; or
               (ii) Said material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for
observation by patrons.
            (k) “Adult modeling studio” shall mean an establishment or business
whose major business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are
so provided with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification to such customers who engage in specified sexual activities or
display specified anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon,
sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such
customers.
            (l) “Adult motion picture arcade” shall mean any building or place
to which the public is allowed or invited in which coin or slug-operated or
electronically, electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture
machines, projectors, computers or other image-producing devices that show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at once, and where the images
so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
            (m) “Adult motion picture theaters” shall mean a business premises
within an enclosed building with a capacity of fifty (50) or more persons used
for presenting visual media material if said business as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age, or if said material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
            (n) “Adult novelty” shall mean materials or devices that simulate
human genitals or devices for sexual stimulation or which depict or relate to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
            (o) “Adult novelty business” shall mean an establishment, building
or business engaging in the barter, rental or sale of adult novelties, if one
(1) or both of the areas described in this Subsection below have products or
materials distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas:
               (i) More than ten percent (10%) of the floor space of the
establishment that is dedicated to retail sales or more than one hundred (100)
square feet of floor space, whichever is smaller.
               (ii) More than ten percent (10%) of the internal wall space of
the establishment that is dedicated to retail sales or more than one hundred
(100) square feet of wall space, whichever is smaller.
            (p) “Adult printed matter” shall mean printed matter that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or related to specified sexual activities or of specified anatomical areas.
            (q) “Adult sauna/steam room/bathhouse” shall mean a sauna/steam
room/bathhouse that excludes minors because of age, or which provides a steam
bath or heat bathing room used for bathing, pleasure, relaxation or reducing,
utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the
service provided by the sauna/steam room/bathhouse is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
            (r) “Adult video tapes” shall mean tapes that are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or related to
specified sexual activities or of specified anatomical areas.
            (s) Those uses excluding bars which are not open to the public
generally but only to one (1) or more classes of the public and excluding any
minor by reason of age, a minor being a person under the age of eighteen (18)
years.
         4. “Booths, stalls or partitions” shall mean enclosures specifically
offered to persons for a fee or as an incident to performing sexual conduct, or
enclosures which are part of a business operated on the premises which offers
movies or any other type of entertainment dispensed for a fee. This definition
does apply to enclosures which are private offices used by the managers, owners
or persons employed on the premises for use during the course of business which
are not held open to the public or members of the establishment for hire or for
a fee or for the purpose of viewing movies or any other type of entertainment.
         5. “Clean” shall mean the absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage,
semen, bodily excrement and other offensive, unsightly or extraneous matter.
         6. “Entity” shall mean any corporation, limited liability partnership,
partnership, limited liability company, joint venture or any other legally
recognized business organization.
         7. “Licensed family day-care home, licensed group family day-care
home, licensed child-care center” shall mean a facility holding a license from
Lake County or Minnesota pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 245A, as it
may be amended from time to time, and/or Minnesota Rules, Chapter 9502 or
Chapter 9503, as they may be amended from time to time.
         8. “Minor” shall mean any natural person under the age of eighteen
(18) years.
         9. “Nudity” shall mean the showing of the human male or female
genitals or pubic area with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of
the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof
below a point immediately above the top of the areola; or the depiction or
showing of the covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
         10. “Public library” shall mean any library that provides free access
to all residents of a city or county without discrimination and is organized
under the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 134, as it may be amended
from time to time.
         11. “Public park” shall mean a park, reservation, open space, play
ground, beach or recreation or community center in the City owned, leased or
used wholly or in part, by the City, county, State, school district or Federal
government for recreation purposes.
         12. “Place of worship” shall mean a building or space that is
principally used as a place where people of the same faith or religion
regularly assemble for worship.
         13. “School” shall mean a building or space that is principally used
as a place where twenty-five (25) or more persons receive a fall course of
educational instruction. Any post-secondary or post-high school educational
building, including any college or any vocational-technical college, shall not
be deemed a “school” for purposes of this Section.
         14. “Sexually-oriented business” shall mean an adult book store, adult
body painting studio, adult car wash, adult cabaret, adult hotel or motel,
adult companionship establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-
motion picture theater, adult massage parlor, adult entertainment facility,
adult health or sports clubs, adult novelty business, adult modeling studio or
adult sauna, as defined herein. Activities classified as obscene as defined by
Minnesota Statutes, Section 617.241, as it may be amended from time to time,
are not lawful and are not included in the definition of adult uses.
         15. “Specified anatomical areas” shall mean anatomical areas
consisting of:
            (a) Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region or pubic hair, buttock, anus or female breast or breasts below a point
immediately above the top of the areola or any combination of the foregoing;
and
            (b) Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
         16. “Specified sexual activities” shall mean activities consisting of
the following:
            (a) Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or
fondling of unclothed genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast,
flagellation or torture in a sexual relationship, or the use of excretory
functions in a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented
acts or conduct: analingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus,
fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, sodomy,
zooerasty;
            (b) Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
            (c) Use or acts of human or animal ejaculation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
            (d) Fondling or touching of human genitals, pubic region or pubic
hair, buttocks or female breast or breasts;
            (e) Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such person;
            (f) Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being;
            (g) Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation; or
            (h) Any combination of the above.
      Subd. 3. Licenses.
         A. License Required. No person, firm or corporation shall own or
operate an adult use, principal or sexually-oriented business in Two Harbors
without having first secured a license as provided herein.
         B. Application. The City shall provide an application form for any
license required hereunder. This application shall include:
            1. The name, residence, phone number and birth date of the
applicant, if an individual; and if an entity, the names, residences, phone
numbers and birth dates of those owners holding more than five percent (5%) of
the ownership interests in such entity;
            2. The name, address, phone number and birth date of each operator
and manager of such operation, if different from the owners;
            3. The address and legal description of the building, establishment
or premises where the adult use or sexually-oriented business is to be located;
            4. A statement detailing each misdemeanor or felony relating to a
sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses or sexually-oriented businesses
and related activities of which the applicant or, for an entity, the owners of
more than five percent (5%) of the ownership interest of such entity, have been
convicted, and whether the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to
operate a similar type of business in other cities;
            5. The activities and types of business to be conducted;
            6. The hours of operation;
            7. The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
            8. A building plan of the premises detailing all internal
operations and activities, including floor plan and provisions designed to
prevent the display or perception by the public from any sidewalk or other
public right-of-way of any adult use materials depicting, describing or related
to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by any visual or
auditory media, including display, decoration, sign, show window, sound
transmission or any other means;
            9. A description or building plan that details all proposed
interior and exterior changes to an existing building or structure;
            10. A plan of the exterior of the premises detailing all activities
designed to prevent, deter and curtail any criminal activity or secondary
effects. This plan includes but is not necessarily limited to parking lot
design, parking lot lighting, exterior lighting and placement of screening
material; and
            11. Each application shall contain a provision on the application
in bold print stating that any withholding of information or the providing of
false or misleading information will be grounds for the denial or revocation of
a license and shall be a violation of this Section punishable as a misdemeanor.
Any changes in the information provided on the application or provided during
the investigation shall be reported to the City Council by the applicant or
licensee. If said changes take place during the investigation, the data shall
be provided to the Chief of Police in writing and they shall report the changes
to the City Council. Failure to report said changes by the applicant(s) or the
licensee may result in a denial or revocation of a license.
            12. Each application shall include a Data Practices Advisory
(Tennessen Warning) that must be completed as part of the application.
         C. License Fees.
            1. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the City Clerk for payment in full of the required application and
investigative fee for the license as established from time to time by
resolution of the City Council. All fees shall be paid into the general fund of
the City.
            2. All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each
year. The City shall issue each license for one (1) year, except that if part
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, the City may
issue a license for the remainder of the year. The fee for any license shall
not be prorated in such event.
            3. The annual fee for an adult use or sexually-oriented business
license shall be as established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
         D. Granting of License.
            1. The City shall investigate all facts set out in the application.
After the City finishes its investigation, the City shall hold a public hearing
and shall give everyone present an opportunity to be heard for or against the
granting of the license a chance to present his or her views. After the
investigation and public hearing, the City Council shall grant or refuse the
application.
            2. The City shall only issue a license to the applicant. The
license may not be transferred to another holder. The City shall only issue a
license for the premises or location described in the application. When a
licensed adult use or sexually-oriented business is sold or transferred, the
existing licensee shall immediately notify the City Council of the sale or
transfer. If the new owner or operator is to continue operating the adult use
or sexually-oriented business, the proposed new owner or operator must
immediately apply for a license pursuant to this Section and cannot conduct an
adult use or sexually-oriented business until such new owner or operator is
issued a license under this Section.
         E. Persons Ineligible for License. The City shall not grant a license
to, nor may one be held by, any person or entity who:
            1. Has been convicted of a felony or been convicted of a
misdemeanor involving sexual activities;
            2. Is not the owner of the establishment for which the license is
issued;
            3. Has not paid the license and investigative fees required by this
Section;
            4. Is not a citizen of the United States;
            5. Has had an adult use or sexually-oriented business or similar
license or permit revoked under an ordinance or statute similar to this; and/or
            6. Already has been issued a license under this Section.
         F. Places Ineligible for License.
            1. No license shall be granted for adult uses or sexually-oriented
businesses on any premises where a licensee has been convicted of a violation,
or where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one (1) year
has elapsed after such conviction or revocation.
            2. No license shall be granted for any adult use or sexually-
oriented business that does not meet all City Code requirements, all building
and fire code requirements and all provisions of State and Federal Law.
            3. No adult use, principal, shall be granted for adult uses or
sexually-oriented businesses for any premises not located in an I-1A Zone
District.
         G. Nonconforming Uses. Any adult use or sexually-oriented business
existing on the effective date of the adoption of this Section may be continued
as nonconforming uses, subject to the following provisions:
            1. No such adult use or sexually-oriented business shall be
expanded or enlarged except in conformity with the provisions of this Section.
            2. Such use shall not be moved to another lot or to any other part
of the parcel of land upon which the same was constructed or was conducted at
the time it became a nonconforming use unless such movement shall eliminate the
nonconformity.
            3. If such use is changed to a conforming use, it shall not
thereafter be changed to a nonconforming use.
            4. Such use may be changed to lessen the nonconformity of the use.
Once such use has been changed, it shall not thereafter be so altered to
increase the nonconformity.
            5. If at any time such use shall be destroyed to the extent of more
than sixty percent (60%) of its fair market value, with said value to be
determined by the Assessor for the City, then without further action by the
City Council, the use of such land shall from and after the date of such
destruction be subject to all of the regulations specified by this Section.
            6. If such use is discontinued and cessation of use continued
uninterrupted for a period of six (6) months following written notice of such
fact being given to the owner by the Zoning Official, any future use of land
shall be made to conform with all regulations specified by this Section.
            7. If such use or adjuncts thereof, which are or become nuisances
shall not be entitled to continue as nonconforming uses.
            8. The provisions of Subd. 2., Subsection 3.(g) shall be applicable
to any such use involving adult video tapes or adult printed matter.
         H. Conditions of License.
            1. Every license shall be granted subject to the condition in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this Section, and of any
applicable sections of the Two Harbors City Code, State and Federal Law.
            2. All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place.
            3. No minor shall be allowed in or on the premises of an adult use
or sexually-oriented business.
            4. A designated inspection or law enforcement officer shall have
the right to enter, inspect and search premises during business hours.
            5. Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of their
place of business and shall maintain conditions of this Section and the Two
Harbors Code, as it may be amended from time to time.
            6. No adult goods, materials or services shall be offered, sold,
transferred, conveyed, given, displayed or bartered to any minor.
            7. All performers, dancers and persons providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the
licensed premises where such entertainment can be seen by patrons of the
licensed premises shall remain at all times a minimum distance of ten (10) feet
from all patrons, customers or spectators and shall dance or provide such
entertainment on a platform intended for that purpose, which shall be raised at
least two (2) feet from the level of the floor on which the patrons, customers
or spectators are located.
            8. No dancer, performer or person providing live entertainment
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas shall
fondle or caress any patron, customer or spectator.
            9. No patron, customer or spectator of a licensed facility shall
directly pay any gratuity to any dancer, performer or person, providing live
entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. Neither shall any dancer, performer or other person solicit
any pay or gratuity from any patron, customer or spectator.
         I. Adult Use, Principal; Conditions. The City permits adult use,
principal, only in the I-1A Zone District. Adult use, principal, licenses shall
be subject to the following conditions:
            1. No adult use, principal, sexually-oriented business shall be
located within the I-1A Zone District closer than five hundred (500) feet from
any preexisting residential lot line, place of worship, school, public park,
open space, licensed family day-care home, licensed group family day-care home,
public library or licensed child-care or day-care center. Measurements shall be
made in a straight line, without regard to City boundaries, intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest property line of the actual business
premises of the adult use, principal, or sexually-oriented business to the
nearest property line of the premises or building used as a dwelling or
residence, place of worship, school, public park, open space, licensed family
day-care home, licensed group family day care home, public library or licensed
child-care or day-care center.
            2. All adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses must follow and
comply with all of the provisions of this Section and the Two Harbors City
Code.
            3. No building owner or operator shall have more than one (1) of
the following uses, tenants or activities in the same building or structure:
adult body painting studio, adult book store, adult cabaret, adult car wash,
adult companionship establishment, adult entertainment facility, adult hotel or
motel, adult modeling studio, adult sauna/steam room/bath house, adult motion
picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater, adult massage parlor, adult
health/sports club or adult novelty business.
            4. An adult use, principal, sexually-oriented business shall not
sell or dispense 3.2 malt liquor, wine or intoxicating liquors, nor shall it be
located in a building that contains a business that sells or dispenses 3.2 malt
liquor, wine or intoxicating liquors.
            5. No adult use, principal, sexually-oriented businesses shall
engage in any activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in any
activity or conduct in or about the adult use establishment that is prohibited
by any ordinance of Two Harbors, the laws of the State of Minnesota or the
United States of America. Nothing in this Section shall be construed as
authorizing or permitting conduct that is prohibited or regulated by other
statutes, ordinances, including but not limited to statutes or ordinances
prohibiting the exhibition, sale or distribution of obscene material generally,
or the exhibition, sale of distribution of specified materials to minors.
            6. No adult use, principal, sexually-oriented business shall be
conducted in any manner that permits the perception or observation from any
property not licensed as an adult use of any materials depicting, describing or
related to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by any
visual or auditory media, including display, decoration, sign, show window,
sound transmission or other means.
            7. All adult use, principal, sexually-oriented businesses shall
prominently display a sign at the entrance and located within two (2) feet of
the door opening device of the adult use establishment: “ This business sells
or displays activities and/or material containing adult themes. Persons under
age 18 years of age shall not enter.”
            8. No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be permitted on
or in the premises of an adult use or sexually-oriented business establishment.
No person under the age of eighteen (18) shall be permitted access to material
displayed, offered for sale, given, transferred, conveyed or rented by an adult
use or sexually-oriented business. Proof of age may be established only by a
valid driver's license or identification card issued by Minnesota, some other
state or a province of Canada, and the proof of age shall include a photograph
and date of birth of the licensed person, a valid military identification card
issued by the United States Department of Defense or in the case of a foreign
national from a nation other than Canada, a valid passport.
            9. Adult use, principal, sexually-oriented businesses shall not be
open between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on the days of Monday
through Saturday, nor between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sunday nor between 8:
00 p.m. on December 24 and 12:00 noon on December 25.
         J. Adult Use, Accessory; Conditions. The City permits adult use,
accessory as a use allowed in a B-1, B-1A, I-1A, and B-2 without a separate
Commercial Development Permit, provided that a Commercial Development Permit
has been issued for the principal business activity to be conducted on the
premises on which the adult use, accessory activity is to be conducted.
            1. The adult use, accessory, shall comprise no more than one (1) or
both of the areas described in subsections (a) and (b) that follow:
               (a) No more than ten percent (10%) of the floor space
establishments dedicated to retail sales or no more than one hundred (100)
square feet of floor space, whichever is smaller.
               (b) No more than ten percent (10%) of the internal wall space of
the establishment dedicated to retail sales or no more than one hundred (100)
square feet of wall space, whichever is smaller.
            2. Display areas for adult video tapes and adult novelties shall be
restricted from general view and shall be located in a separate room, for which
the access is in clear view and in the control of the person responsible for
the business establishment. The sign required by Subsection I.7. shall be
placed at the entrance to such separate room.
            3. Unless located in the separate room required by Subsection J.2.,
adult printed matter shall not be accessible to minors and shall be covered
with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any materials other than
the publication title.
            4. A Commercial Development Permit has been issued for the
principal business activity to be conducted on the premises on which the adult
use, accessory activity is to be conducted.
            5. Persons under the age of eighteen (18) may not be prohibited in
the establishment.
            6. The business must be conducted so as to fully comply with the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Sections 617.291 through 617.296, as amended
from time to time.
            7. No adult use, principal may be conducted in the establishment.
            8. No use of adult novelties or viewing of adult videos shall be
allowed in the establishment.
         K. Revocation, Suspension and Renewal.
            1. The City Council may revoke, suspend or not renew a license upon
the recommendation of the City Administrator that shows the licensee, its
owners, managers, employees, agents or any other interested parties have
engaged in any of the following conduct:
               (a) Fraud, deception or misrepresentation about securing the
license;
               (b) Habitual drunkenness or intemperance in the use of drugs
including, but not limited to the use of drugs defined in Minnesota Statutes,
Section 618.01, as it may be amended from time to time, barbiturates,
hallucinogenic drugs, amphetamines, Benzedrine, Dexedrine or other sedatives,
depressants, stimulants or tranquilizers;
               (c) Engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude or permitting
or allowing others within their employ or agency to engage in conduct involving
moral turpitude or failing to prevent agents, officers, or employees in
engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude;
               (d) Failure to follow any requirements of the ordinances of Two
Harbors about sanitary and safety conditions, zoning requirements, building
code requirements or ordinances, or failure to follow the requirements of this
Section; and/or
               (e) Conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude.
            2. The certificate holder may appeal such suspension, revocation or
non-renewal to the City Council. The Council shall consider the appeal at a
regularly scheduled public hearing on or after ten (10) days from service of
the notice of appeal to the City Administrator. At the conclusion of the
hearing, the Council may order:
               (a) Revocation, suspension or non-renewal be affirmed;
               (b) Revocation, suspension or non-renewal be revoked and that
the license be returned to the license holder; and/or
               (c) The Council may impose, at their discretion, any additional
terms, conditions or stipulations for the suspension or issuance of the
license.
         L. Limitations.
            1. No more than one (1) adult use license may be directly or
indirectly issued to any one person, partnership or corporation or for any one
place or location in the City.
            2. No person, partnership or corporation shall have or possess a
direct or indirect interest in more than one (1) adult use license in the City.
            3. The term “interest” as used in this Section includes any
pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation, management or profits of an
adult use or sexually-oriented business does not include loans, rental
agreements, open accounts or other obligations held with or without security
arising out of the ordinary and regular course of business of selling or
leasing merchandise, fixtures or supplies to the establishment.
            4. A person, partnership or a corporation, which receives monies
from time to time directly or indirectly from a licensee in the absence of a
bona fide consideration therefore, and excluding bona fide gifts or donations,
shall be deemed to have a pecuniary interest in such adult use license.
            5. In determining whether an interest exists, the transactions must
have been bona fide and the reasonable value of the goods and things received
as consideration for a payment by the goods and things received as
consideration for a payment by the licensee and all other facts reasonably
tending to prove or disprove the existence of a purposeful scheme or
arrangement to evade the restrictions of this Section must be considered.
            6. Upon conviction for violation of this Section the City Council
may revoke all licenses in which such convicted person, partnership or
corporation has an interest.
         M. Payment of Taxes, Assessments, Other Charges.
            1. No adult use license shall be granted hereunder for the
operation on any premises on which real estate taxes, assessments or other
financial claims of the City are delinquent and unpaid.
            2. In the event the applicant is the owner, either in fee or under
a contract for deed of the real estate where the licensed business is to be
located and there are delinquent real estate taxes and/or assessments and/or
other financial claims of the City against such real estate, the City Council
may nevertheless, by affirmative vote of three (3) members of the City Council,
authorize and direct the issuance of such license, but only if the applicant
shall submit a certified copy of an agreement under any laws of the State of
Minnesota for the payment of such delinquent taxes and assessments and other
financial claims.
            3. In the event the applicant does not own the real estate where
the licensed business is to be located and there are delinquent real estate
taxes and/or assessments and/or other financial claims of the City against such
real estate, the City Council may nevertheless, by affirmative vote of three
(3) members of the Council, authorize and direct the issuance of such license,
but only if the applicant shall submit evidence to the City Council that the
owner of said real estate and the applicant have entered into a written rental
agreement or lease providing that rent paid shall first be applied to such
delinquent real estate taxes and assessments and other financial claims.
         N. Special Rules for Guiding Board of Appeals in Considering Requests
for Interpretations of Uses. In considering an application of whether a use not
specifically listed in this Section may be allowed, the Board of Appeals and
Adjustment shall allow the proposed use, only if such use is similar to a use
allowed with a Limited Industrial District or an Adult Use, Principal License
in the I-1A Zone District.
      Subd. 4. Sign and Window Display Restrictions.
         A. The following sign regulations shall apply to all adult use,
principal uses and adult use, accessory uses in the City. These regulations are
to protect children from exposure to sexually-oriented or shocking signs and
materials and to preserve the value of property near adult uses and sexually-
oriented businesses. These regulations are in addition to any other applicable
law, rule, ordinance or regulation.
         B. All signs shall be flat wall or freestanding signs. No signs shall
be located on any roof, or contain any flashing lights, moving elements or
electronically or mechanically changing messages.
         C. The City's sign regulations for the zone district where the
business is located shall regulate the amount of allowable sign area and the
number of allowed signs for an adult use or sexually-oriented business except
that such businesses may have only one (1) sign no larger than one hundred
(100) square feet in size.
         D. No merchandise, photos or pictures of the products or entertainment
on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can
be viewed from the sidewalk or public right-of-way adjoining the building or
structure in which the adult use or sexually-oriented business is located.
         E. Window areas shall not be covered nor made opaque in any way. No
signs shall be placed in any window. The signs required by Subd. 3, Subsection
I.7. may be placed on the door to state hours of operation and admittance to
adults only.
         F. All license holders under this Section shall apply for and pay for
any sign permit required by the applicable codes, rules and regulations of the
Two Harbors City Code.
      Subd. 5. Sanitation and Health.
         A. Partitions Facilitating Sexual Activity. No license holder shall
allow any partition between a subdivision, portion or part of the licensed
premises having any aperture which is designed or constructed to facilitate
sexual intercourse, sodomy, fondling or other erotic touching of human
genitals, pubic region or pubic hair, buttocks or female breast between persons
on either side of the partition.
         B. Restrictions on Booths, Stalls or Partitions. No license holder
shall allow or have on the licensed premises any booths, stalls or partitions
used for the viewing of motion pictures or other form of adult use
entertainment that have doors, curtains or portal partitions, unless such
booths, stalls or partitions have at least one (1) side open to an adjacent
public room so that the area inside is visible to persons in the adjacent
public room. The interior of said booths, stalls or partitions shall be lighted
in a manner so that the persons within the booths, stalls or partitions are
clearly visible from the adjacent public rooms.
         C. Limit of Persons in Partitioned Area. Any booths, stalls or
partitioned areas of a room, or individual rooms used for the viewing of motion
pictures, other forms of video entertainment or live entertainment, shall not
be occupied by more than one (1) person at a time.
         D. Authority for Inspection. The City Council and/or its designates
shall have the authority to inspect or cause to have inspected the licensed
premises and adjoining areas in order to determine compliance with this
Section.
         E. Sanitation Requirement. All adult uses and sexually-oriented
businesses shall at all times be kept clean as herein defined.
         F. Duty to Supervise. The license holder shall not permit specified
sexual activities to take place on the licensed premises and shall have the
affirmative duty to supervise the licensed premises and prevent such
activities.
      Subd. 6. Criminal Penalties. Any violation of this Section shall be a
misdemeanor.
      Subd. 7. Severability. Should any section, clause or provision of this
Section be declared by the courts to be invalid, the same shall not affect the
validity of this Section as a whole or part thereof other than the part so
declared to be invalid.
Source: Ordinance No. 26
Effective Date: 07-27-2005
(Sections 4.51 through 4.59, inclusive, reserved for future expansion)
SEC. 4.60. RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT.
      Subd. 1. Findings, Purpose and Intent. To provide for the health, safety,
and welfare of its citizens, and to ensure the integrity of the streets within
the City and the appropriate use of the rights-of-way within the City, the City
strives to keep the rights-of-way within the City in a state of good repair and
free from unnecessary obstructions.
         A. Accordingly, the City hereby amends and restates Section 4.60
related to rights- of-way within the City. This Section imposes reasonable
regulations on the placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment
currently within its rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of state, county and federal
agencies. Under this Section, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-
way will bear financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this Section
provides for recovery of costs incurred by the City in the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this Section and the ongoing acquisition,
establishment, maintenance and management of the rights-of-way in the City from
persons using the public rights-of-way.
         B. This Section shall be interpreted consistently with Minnesota
Statutes Sections 237.162, and 273.163 (“ROW Statutes”) and the other laws
governing applicable rights of the City and rights-of-way users. This Section
shall also be interpreted consistent with Minnesota Rules 7819.0050 - 7819.9950
(“Minnesota Rules”), where possible. To the extent any provision of this
Section cannot be interpreted consistently with Minnesota law, the
interpretation most consistent with the ROW Statutes, Minnesota Rules and other
applicable statutory and case law is intended. This Section shall not be
interpreted to limit the regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and
enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
      Subd. 2. Election to Manage the Public Rights-of-Way. Pursuant to the
authority granted to the City under state and federal statutory, administrative
and common law, including without limitation, the ROW Statutes and the
Minnesota Rules, the City hereby determines to establish regulations governing
the use and maintenance of its rights-of-way within the City by all right-of-
way users and elects, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 237.163, Subd. 2
(b), to manage rights-of-way within the City by right-of-way users, including
telecommunications right-of-way users.
      Subd. 3. Definitions. The following definitions apply in this Section.
References hereafter to a “Subd.” are, unless otherwise specified, references
to a Subdivision of this Section
4.60. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether capitalized or not.
         A. “Abandoned Facility” - A facility no longer in service or
physically disconnected from a portion of the operating facility, or from any
other facility, that is in use or still carries service. A facility is not
abandoned unless declared so by the right-of-way user.
         B. “Applicant” - Any person requesting permission to excavate or
obstruct a right- of-way.
         C. “City” - The City of Two Harbors, Minnesota. For the purpose of
Subd. 28, “City” means its elected officials, officers, employees, and agents.
         D. “Commission” - The Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or any
successor agency to the Commission.
         E. “Congested Right-of-Way” - A crowded condition in the subsurface of
the public right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between
existing underground facilities does not allow for construction of new
underground facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing
lateral facilities, in conformance with Minnesota Statutes, Section 216B.04,
over a continuous length in excess of 500 feet.
         F. “Construction Performance Bond” or “Bond” - Any of the following
forms of security provided at permittee’s option:
            (1) Individual project bond, in a form acceptable to the City;
            (2) Cash deposit;
            (3) A pledge of security in a form listed or approved under
Minnesota Statutes, Section 15.73, Subd. 3;
            (4) Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the City;
            (5) A blanket bond for projects within the City, or other form of
construction bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the City.
         G. “Degradation” - A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way
caused by excavation on or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the
need to reconstruct such right-of-way earlier then would be required if the
excavation or disturbance did not occur.
         H. “Degradation Cost” - The cost to achieve a level of restoration, as
determined by the City at the time the permit is issued, not to exceed the
maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, as set forth in Minnesota Rules
7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
         I. “Department” - The Department of Public Works of the City.
         J. “Department Inspector” - Any person authorized by the City to carry
out inspections related to the provisions of this Section.
         K. “Director” - The Director of Public Works of the City, or his or
her designee.
         L. “Delay Penalty” - The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as
established by permit.
         M. “Emergency” - A condition that (1) poses a danger to the life or
health, or of a significant loss of property; or (2) requires immediate repair
or replacement of facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
         M. “Equipment” - Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or
maintain facilities in any right-of-way.
         O. “Excavate” - To dig into or in any way remove, physically disturb
or penetrate any part of a right-of-way.
         P. “Excavation Permit” - The permit which, pursuant to this Section,
must be obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation
permit allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in
such permit.
         Q. “Excavation Permit Fee” - The fee required to be paid to the City
by an applicant to obtain the excavation permit.
         R. “Facility” or “Facilities” - Any tangible asset in the right-of-way
required to provide a utility service.
         S. “Hole” - An excavation, with the excavation having a length less
than the width.
         T. “Local Representative” - A local person or persons, or designee of
such person or persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to
make decisions for that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of
this Section.
         U. “Management Costs” - The actual costs the City incurs in managing
its rights- of-way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with
registering applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit
applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining,
supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities or equipment during the work
the City permits in the right-of-way; determining the adequacy of right-of-way
restoration; restoring work inadequately performed after providing notice and
the opportunity to correct the work; revoking right-of- way permits; and
vegetation management within the right-of-way.
         V. “Obstruct” or “Obstruction” - To place any tangible object in a
right-of-way so as to hinder free and open passage over that or any part of the
right-of-way, but excluding any temporary obstruction in the right-of-way.
         W. “Obstruction Permit” - The permit which, pursuant to this section,
must be obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the
holder to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that
right-of-way, for the duration specified therein.
         X. “Obstruction Permit Fee” - Fees required to be paid to the City by
a permittee to obtain a construction permit.
         Y. “Patch” or “Patching” - A method of pavement replacement that is
temporary in nature. A patch consists of: (1) the compaction of the subbase and
aggregate base; and (2) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for
a minimum of two feet beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions.
         Z. “Pavement” - Any type of improved surface that is within the public
right-of-way, and paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
         AA. “Permit” - A permit to perform work in a public right-of-way,
whether to excavate or obstruct the right-of-way.
         BB. “Permittee” - Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct
a right-of- way has been granted by the City under this Section.
         CC. “Person” - An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules
of this state, however organized, wether public or private, whether domestic or
foreign, whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or
political.
         DD. “Pole” - Any utility pole owned by the City or another person
within the City.
         EE. “Pole Fee” - The annual fee established by the City, from time to
time by resolution, based on: (1) the cost of a single pole amortized over a
forty (40) year life expectancy, adjusted for the consumer price index of
durable goods over forty (40) years; plus (2) the cost of labor necessary to
replace a single pole, adjusted over the same forty (40) year period; then (3)
divided by the total number of right-of-way users, including the City,
utilizing or attached to the pole; and (4) multiplied by the total number of
individual poles being utilized by that particular right-of-way user. The pole
fee shall be the amount as established by City Council Resolution No. 12-229-
11, until changed by the City.
         FF. “Probation” - The status of a person who has not complied with the
conditions of this Section.
         GG. “Probationary Period” - One year from the date that a person has
been notified in writing that they have been put on probation.
         HH. “Registrant” - Any person who: (1) has or seeks to have its
equipment or facilities located in any right-of-way; or (2) in any way occupies
or uses, or seeks to occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or
equipment in the right-of-way.
         II. “Restore” or “Restoration” - The process by which an excavated
right-of-way and surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is
returned to the same condition and life expectancy that existed before
excavation.
         JJ. “Restoration Cost” - The amount of money paid to the City by a
permittee to achieve the level of restoration required by the right-of-way
permit, not to exceed the maximum limits of restoration methods and area
requirements shown in plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota Rules 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
         KK. “Public Right-of-Way” or “Right-of-Way” - The area on, below, or
above a public roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, easement or
public sidewalk in which any governmental unit has an interest, including other
dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and utility easements of the City.
A right-of-way does not include the airwaves above a right-of-way with regard
to cellular or other non-wire telecommunications or broadcast service.
         LL. “Right-of-Way Permit” - Either an excavation permit or an
obstruction permit, or both, depending on the context, required by this
Section.
         MM. “Right-of-Way User” - (1) A telecommunications right-of-way user;
or (2) a person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that is
used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a right
under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of- way; or (3) a
person desiring to perform work in the right-of-way.
         NN. “Service” or “Utility Service” - Includes: (1) those services
provided by a public utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes, Section 216B.02,
Subds. 4 and 6; (2) services of a telecommunications right-of-way user,
including transporting of voice or data information; (3) services of a cable
communications system as defined in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 238; (4)
natural gas or electric energy or telecommunications services provided by the
City; (5) services provided by a cooperative electric association organized
under Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 308A; and (6) water, storm sewer and sewer,
including service laterals, steamcooling or heating services.
         OO. “Service Lateral” - An underground facility that is used to
transmit, distribute, or furnish gas, electricity, video, data, communications,
storm water or water from a common source to an end-use customer. A service
lateral is also an underground facility that is used in the removal of
wastewater from a person’s premises.
         PP. “Supplementary Application” - An application made to excavate or
obstruct more of the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that
had already been issued.
         QQ. “Temporary Obstruction” - A short term obstruction of the right-
of-way by the right-of-way user for the purpose of: (1) installing facilities
on a pole pursuant to an approved occupancy request under a pole attachment
license agreement between the right-of-way user and the pole owner; (2)
performing routine maintenance and repairs on facilities; or (3) installing
service drops to its customers, provided that in each of the foregoing
instances the right-of-way user notifies the City at least twenty-four (24)
hours in advance of such work and the obstruction of the right-of-way does not
extend beyond the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. for a single day.
         RR. “Temporary Surface” - The compaction of subbase and aggregate base
and replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation.
         SS. “Trench” - An excavation, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width.
         TT. “Telecommunication Right-of-Way User” - A person owning or
controlling a facility in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a
Facility in the right-of-way, that is used or is intended to be used for
transporting telecommunication or other voice data information. For purposes of
this Section, a cable communications system as defined and regulated under
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, whether provided by a public
utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes, Section 216B.02, a municipality, a
municipal gas or power agency organized under Minnesota Statutes, Chapters 453
and 453A, or a cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for
purposes of this Section.
         UU. “Vegetation Management” - Work required to be performed to keep
and maintain the public right-of-way clear of vegetation that affects the safe
use of the public right-of-way by a right-of-way user, including, without
limitation, tree trimming, tree removal and similar activities to clear
vegetation.
      Subd. 4. Administration. The Director is the principal City official
responsible for the administration of the rights-of-way, permits, and the
ordinances related thereto. The Director may delegate any or all of the duties
hereunder.
      Subd. 5. Registration.
         A. Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy
or use, a right-of-way, or place any equipment or facilities in or on a right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the City. Registration will
consist of providing application information and paying a registration fee.
         B. Registration Prior to Work. No person may construct, install,
repair, remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities
or any part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with
the City.
         C. Exceptions. Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend
the provisions of a City ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right-of-way between such
persons’ property and the street curb. Persons planting, or maintaining
boulevard plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right-
of-way, and shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other
requirements for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens
under this Section. However, nothing herein relieves a person from complying
with the provisions of the Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 126D, Gopher One Call
Law. Further, nothing herein obligates the City to provide compensation for any
plantings within any right-of-way that are disturbed by any permitted work with
the right-of-way.
         D. Exemptions. The City is exempt from the registration requirements
of this Subd. 5. Resellers of telecommunications services are exempt from the
registration requirements of this Subd. 5, if such reseller does not own any
facilities in the right-of-way.
      Subd. 6. Registration Information.
         A. Information Required. The information provided to the City at the
time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
            1. Contact Information. The registrant’s name, Gopher One-Call
registration certificate number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers.
            2.  Local Representative. The name, address and e-mail address, if
applicable, and telephone and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The
local representative or designee shall be available at all times. Current
information regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency
shall be provided at the time of registration.
            3. No Work Without Registration.  The registrant shall not perform
any work in a right-of-way within the City until the registrant has furnished
the bond and all of the insurance required under this Subd. 6, and such bond
and insurance have been approved by the City. Nor shall the registrant allow
any subcontractor to commence work on any facility until the insurance required
to be provided by the subcontractor has been obtained and approved.
            4. Compensation Insurance. The registrant and each subcontractor of
a registrant shall procure and maintain during the term of the excavation or
obstruction permit worker’s compensation insurance, as required by applicable
Minnesota law, for all employees to be engaged in work under a permit. In case
any class of employees engaged in hazardous work in the right-of-way is not
protected under the worker’s compensation statute, the registrant shall provide
and shall cause each subcontractor to provide adequate employer’s liability
insurance for the protection of such employees as are not otherwise protected.
            5. Registrant's Public Liability and Property Damage Insurance and
Vehicle Liability Insurance.  The registrant shall procure and shall maintain
during the term of its registration the property damage insurance, vehicle
liability insurance and public liability insurance of the type and in the
amounts specified in Subds. 6.A.10, 6.A.11 and 6.A.12 below.
            6. Subcontractor’s Public Liability and Property Damage Insurance
and Vehicle Liability Insurance. The registrant shall either: (1) require each
subcontractor performing work under a permit to procure and to maintain during
the term of the permit, subcontractor’s property damage insurance, vehicle
liability insurance and public liability insurance of the type and in the
amounts specified in Subds. 6.A.10, 6.A.11 and 6.A.12 below; or (2) insure the
activities of the subcontractors in registrant’s policy, as specified in Subd.
6.A.5 above.
            7. Scope of Insurance and Special Hazards. The insurance required
under Subds. 6.A.5 and 6.A.6 hereof shall provide adequate protection for the
registrant and the registrant’s subcontractors performing work under a permit,
respectively, against damage claims that may arise from activities and
operations within the right-of-way, whether such activities or operations be by
the insured or by any one directly or indirectly employed by the insured, and
also against any of the special hazards that may be encountered in the
performance of the activities or operations within the right-of-way as
enumerated in Subd. 6.A.10 below.
            8. Indemnification. The registrant shall indemnify, defend and hold
the City harmless from all claims and actions of any kind arising from, or
incidental to, the performance of any work by or on its behalf in the right-of-
way, including expenses incidental to such claims and actions and attorneys’
fees, and the registrant shall assume, without expense to the City, the defense
of any such claims or actions.
            9. Proof of Insurance.  The registrant shall furnish the City with
a certificate of insurance showing the type, amount, class of operations
covered, effective dates and dates of expiration of insurance policies. Such
certificate(s) shall contain substantially the following statement: “The
insurance covered by this certificate will not be canceled, materially altered,
or not renewed, except after thirty (30) days written notice or ten (10) days
for nonpayment of premium, has been received by the City.” The City is to be
named as an additional insured on such certificate and not merely as a
certificate holder. The registrant must also provide the City with appropriate
endorsements to its policy(ies) of insurance, reflecting the status of City as
an additional insured. and requiring that the foregoing notice of cancellation,
material alteration or non-renewal be provided to City by the insurance company
providing such insurance policy(ies) to the registrant.
            10. Limits of Insurance.
               Worker’s compensation:   As required by Minnesota law with an
                           “all states” endorsement
               Employer’s liability   Per employee      $300,000.00
               Independent contractor’s protective coverage liability:
               Bodily injury      Each person         $1,500,000.00
                        Aggregate         $1,500,000.00
               Property damage   Each accident      $1,500,000.00
Products and completed operations coverage to be kept in place for the duration
of any contract guarantee period:
                  Bodily injury      Each person      $1,500,000.00
                           Aggregate      $1,500,000.00
                  Property damage   Each accident   $1,500,000.00
                  Comprehensive general liability, premises and operations:
                  Bodily injury      Each person      $1,500,000.00
                           Aggregate      $1,500,000.00
                  Comprehensive general liability, premises and operations:
                  Property damage   Each accident   $1,500,000.00
Contractual liability covering customary construction contract and subcontract
indemnity provisions:
                  Bodily injury      Each person      $1,500,000.00
                           Aggregate      $1,500,000.00
Contractual liability covering customary construction contract and subcontract
indemnity provisions:
                  Property damage   Each accident   $1,500,000.00
Automobile public liability and property damage insurance for owned and non-
owned vehicles:
                  Bodily injury      Each person      $1,500,000.00
                           Aggregate      $1,500,000.00
                  Property damage   Each accident   $1,500,000.00
            11. Property Insurance. Registrant shall provide “all risk”
builder’s risk insurance under a completed value form on all work in the right-
of-way, debris removal, architects’ and engineer’s fees, temporary structures,
materials, equipment and supplies of all kinds located in the right-of-way, to
the full replacement value thereof, except that such policy may provide for a
deductible amount not to exceed $25,000.00 per occurrence. Said insurance shall
be endorsed to provide consent for possession of the facilities installed in
the right-of-way and shall be maintained in effect until permanent property
coverage is in force. Such insurance shall be written in the names of the
registrant, any subcontractor and the City, as their interests may appear.
            12. Public Liability Insurance.  Public liability insurance written
on an “occurrence” basis under comprehensive general liability form with “broad
form” property damage liability coverage, with the XCU exclusion removed, in
limits specified in Subd. 6.A.10 above. The registrant shall require such
liability coverage from all subcontractors performing work under a permit
unless they are insured under the registrant’s policies. Certificates
evidencing such coverage obtained by any subcontractor shall be provided to the
City.
            13. Claim Form.  The registrant shall obtain and provide to City,
with the certificate of insurance, a claim form for use by persons with claims
against the registrant arising out of the performance of work, activities or
operations by or on behalf of the registrant within the right-of-way.
            14. Insurance Policies.  The City may require a registrant to
furnish a copy of the actual insurance policies.
            15. Bond.  The registrant shall obtain and provide to the City,
with its application for registration, a bond in the amount of $25,000.00 to
protect the City’s interest in the efficient administration of the right-of-way
and to secure the performance of any obligations of the registrant under this
Section and a permit.
            16. Certificate of Authority. If the registrant is a
telecommunications right-of-way user, a copy of the registrant's order granting
a certificate of authority from the Commission, or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have a certificate or
other authorization to conduct the activity or furnish service for which the
right-of-way is sought.
            17. Annual Renewal.  The registrant shall renew its registration on
a form provided by the City annually on or before February 1. The insurance
certificate required by Subd. 6.A.9 must be filed with each annual renewal. The
bond required by Subd. 6.A.15 must be renewed with each annual renewal.
         B. Notice of Changes. The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City written notice and
information as to changes within fifteen (15) days following the date on which
the registrant has knowledge of any change.
      Subd. 7. Reporting Obligations.
         A. Operations. Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and
at the time of each annual renewal pursuant to Subd. 6.A.16, file with the City
a construction and major maintenance plan for underground facilities within the
right-of-way that it intends to construct in the year of initial registration
or the year the registration is renewed. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way.
            1. The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the locations and
estimated beginning and ending dates of all projects to be commenced during the
calendar year in which the initial registration is made and the calendar year
in which the registration is renewed
            2. By March 1 of each year, the City will make available for public
inspection in the City’s office a composite list of all projects of which the
City has been informed, based on the registrant filings made pursuant to Subd.
7, Subsection A.
   All registrants are responsible for keeping themselves informed of the
current status of this project list.
            3. A registrant may change any project in its list at any time, and
must notify the City and all other registrants of all such changes in said
list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registrant may at any time join in a
project of another registrant listed by the other registrant, based on the
mutual agreement of the registrants.
         B. Additional Projects. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City will
not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the City under Subd. 7, Subsection A, if the
registrant has used commercially reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for
the project.
      Subd. 8. Permit Requirement
         A. Permit Required. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained
the appropriate permit from the City to do so.
            1. Excavation Permit. An excavation permit is required by a
registrant to excavate any part of the right-of-way and to hinder free and open
passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing facilities
described therein.
            2. Obstruction Permit. An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over a portion of right-of-way by
placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for
the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a
person already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
         B. Permit Extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-
way beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless: (1) such person
makes a supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the
expiration of the initial permit; or (2) a new permit or permit extension is
granted.
         C. Delay Penalty. In accordance with Minnesota Rule 7819.1000, Subp.
3, the City shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays
in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay
penalty shall be established from time to time by City Council resolution or
ordinance.
         D. Permit Display. Permits issued under this Section shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City.
         E. Exemptions. The City is exempt from the permit requirements of this
Subd. 8. Resellers of telecommunications services are exempt from the permit
requirements of this Subd. 8, if such resellers do not own any facilities in
the right-of-way.
      Subd. 9. Permit Applications. An application for a permit is made to the
City. Right-of- way permit applications shall contain, and will be considered
complete only upon the applicant’s compliance with, the requirements of the
following provisions:
         A.  Registration. Registration with the City pursuant to Subd. 5 and
the remaining provisions of this Subd. 9.
         B.  Forms and Information. Submission of a completed application form,
including all required attachments, and scaled drawings, showing the location
and area of the proposed project and the location of all known existing and
proposed facilities.
         C.  Payment. Payment of money due the City for:
            1. Permit fees and applicable management costs;
            2. Restoration costs for prior obstructions or excavations for
which payment has not been made or work completed.
            3. Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the City;
            4. Any other charges owed to the City by applicant.
         D.  Disputed Amounts. If the applicant disputes any amount required to
be paid by the City with the application, the applicant may provide a letter
for credit in an amount equal to at least 125% of the amount determined by the
City to be owing and remain be eligible to obtain a permit.
         E. Construction Performance Bond. When requesting an excavation
permit, the applicant must provide a construction performance bond in an amount
determined by the City as necessary to cover estimated restoration costs and
degradation costs if such costs are determined to be in excess of the
registration bond furnished pursuant to Subd. 6.A.15.
         F. Subcontractors.  The applicant must provide the name, address,
emergency phone number and contact person for any subcontractor performing work
for any person who is issued a permit under this Section.
      Subd. 10. Issuance of Permit; Conditions.
         A. Permit Issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this Section, the City shall issue an excavation or obstruction permit.
         B. Conditions. The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit, and the performance of the applicant thereunder, to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when determined by the City
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use. The City may require
the installation of locating wires or other measures to allow underground
facilities in the right-of-way to be located.
         C. Acceptance of Conditions.  The applicant shall execute and deliver
to the Director an acceptance of the permit conditions, together with the
required construction performance bond, within ten (10) days of being presented
the completed permit by the City. If the acceptance is not executed within such
time period, the applicant is deemed to have withdrawn the application and a
new application will have to be submitted.
      Subd. 11. Fees.
         A. General Permit Fees. Permit fees established by the City will be:
(1) based on the actual costs incurred by the City in managing the public
rights-of-way; (2) based on an allocation among all right-of-way users,
including the City, which reflects the proportionate costs imposed on the City
by each of the various types of uses of the public rights-of-way; (3)
established on a competitively neutral basis; and (4) established in a manner
so that above-ground uses of public rights-of-way do not bear costs incurred by
the City for regular underground uses of public rights-of-way.
         B. Excavation Permit Fee. The City shall, from time to time by
resolution, establish an excavation permit fee in an amount sufficient to
recover the management costs related to the administration of this Section and
the excavation permit.
         C. Obstruction Permit Fee. The City shall, from time to time by
resolution, establish the obstruction permit fee in an amount sufficient to
recover the management costs related to the administration of this Section and
the obstruction permit.
         D. Payment of Permit Fees.  No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of the applicable excavation or obstruction
permit fee.
         E. Non Refundable. Permit fees submitted any an applicant are not
refundable. Permit fees that are paid for a permit that the City has revoked
for a breach, as described in Subd. 22, are not refundable.
         F. Application to Franchisees.  Unless otherwise agreed to in a
franchise, management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to
any franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in a franchise.
         G. Pole Fees.  In order for the City to maintain its assets in poles
and to have sufficient funds on hand when the existing poles are in need of
replacement, the City has determined to exercise its authority to impose a pole
fee on all right-of-way users who utilize or attach to a pole owned by the
City. The applicable pole fee for each year after December 31, 2011, shall be
paid by each right-of-way user utilizing or attaching to a City-owned pole,
including the City, on or before May 1 of each year beginning with 2012. For
purposes of this Subd. 11, the pole fee is not a permit fee.
         H. Vegetation Management Fees. The City shall, from time to time by
resolution, establish a vegetation management fee to defray costs of vegetation
management and assess each registrant its fair share of the vegetation
management costs based on its use of the right-of-way. Vegetation management
fees shall be deemed to be management costs.
      Subd. 12. Pole Attachment Agreement Required.
         Agreement Required. No person may utilize any pole located in a right-
of-way until such person has entered into a pole attachment agreement with the
owner of the pole.
      Subd. 13. Right-of-Way Patching, Restoration, Vegetation Management.
         A. Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
required patching and restoration of the right-of-way, must be completed within
the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days as work could not
be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the permittee or when
work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable.
         B. Patch and Restoration.  After an excavation of a right-of-way,
permittee shall restore the right-of-way and surrounding areas, including the
pavement and its foundation, to the same condition that existed before the
excavation. Any permittee that disturbs uncultivated sod in the excavation or
obstruction of a right-of-way shall plant grasses that are native to Minnesota
and, wherever practicable, that are of the local eco-type, as part of the
required restoration, unless the owner of the real property over which the
right-of-way traverses objects. The permittee shall consult with the Department
of Natural Resources regarding the species of native grasses that conform to
the requirements of this Subsection. The City may choose either to have the
permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore the right-of-way itself.
            1. City Restoration. If the City restores the right-of-way,
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of billing. If
such payment is not timely made, then the City may exercise its rights under
the construction performance bond provided in accordance with Subd. 9,
Subsection E.
            2. Permittee Restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-
way itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Subd. 9,
Subsection E.
   If, following such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's
improper backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30)
days of billing, all costs associated with correcting the defective work. If
such restoration is not timely performed, then the City may exercise its rights
under the construction performance bond provided in accordance with Subd. 9,
Subsection E.
         C. Standards. The permittee must return the right-of-way to the same
condition that existed before excavation, and shall perform excavation,
backfilling, patching and restoration according to the standards and with the
materials specified by the City and in compliance with Minnesota Rule
7819.1100. The right-of-way user is responsible for all of its work and
activities in the right-of-way, whether by employees, agents or independent
contractors.
         D. Duty to Correct Defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents and
subcontractors. Upon notification from the City, the permittee shall correct
all restoration work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the
City. Said work shall be completed within five (5) calendar days of the receipt
of the notice from the City, not including days during which work cannot be
done because of circumstances beyond the reasonable control of the permittee or
days when work is prohibited as unseasonable.
         E. Failure to Restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-
way in the manner and to the required condition, or fails to satisfactorily and
timely complete all restoration, the City, at its option, may perform such
work. In that event, the permittee shall pay to the City, within thirty (30)
days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If permittee fails to
pay as required, the City may exercise its rights under the construction
performance bond.
         G. Vegetation Management. The City has determined that it is in the
best interest of the City that it perform required vegetation management in the
right-of-way. To that end, no registrant may perform vegetation management
within the right-of-way, unless specifically authorized in a permit. The City
will perform vegetation management work in the right-of-way as it deems
necessary and appropriate.
         H. Return of Construction Performance Bond.  If, twenty-four (24)
months after completion of the restoration of the right-of-way, the Director
determines that the right-of-way has been properly restored, any construction
performance bond required by Subd. 9, Subsection E will be released to the
permittee.
      Subd. 14. Joint Applications.
         A. Joint Application. Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
         B. Shared Fees. Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the City does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree between and among themselves as to the portion
each will pay and indicate the same on the application. However, each joint
applicant is jointly and severally liable for payment of the permit fees and
performance under the permit.
         C. With City Projects. Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction
or excavation performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint application
by two (2) or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay
the excavation or obstruction permit fee, but a permit is still required.
      Subd. 15. Supplementary Applications.
         A. Limitation on Area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the
area of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit. Any permittee who determines that an
area greater than that specified in the permit must be obstructed or excavated
must, before working in that greater area: (1) make application for a permit
extension and pay any additional fees required thereby; or (2) obtain a new
permit.
         B. Limitation on Dates. A permit is valid only for the dates specified
in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or
continue working after the permit end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must submit
a supplementary application for an extension of the permit for the additional
time it needs, and receive the permit extension before working after the permit
end date. The supplementary application must be submitted before the permit end
date.
      Subd. 16. Other Obligations
         A. Compliance with Other Laws. Obtaining a right-of-way permit does
not relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits,
licenses, and authority and to pay all fees required by the City, or to comply
or other applicable rules, laws or regulations. A permittee shall comply with
all requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
Minnesota Statutes, Section 216D.01 - 216D.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation
Notice System) and Minnesota Rules Chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all
work in conformance with all applicable codes, rules, and regulations,
including the National Electric Safety Code, as published by the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and approved by the American National
Standards Institute, and is responsible for all activities and work done in the
right-of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
         B. Prohibited Work. Except in an emergency, and with the approval of
the City, no right-of-way obstruction may occur or excavation may be done when
seasonally prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
         C. Interference with Right-of-Way. A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way so as to interfere with the natural free and clear passage of
water through the gutters or other waterways. Private vehicles of those doing
work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit area,
unless parked in conformance with City parking regulations. The loading or
unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area, unless
specifically authorized by the permit.
         D. Trenchless Excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 216 D and Minnesota Rules Chapter 7560, and shall
require potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating, as determined by the Director and when required by applicable law.
The Director may prohibit trenchless excavation for telecommunication
facilities in congested right-of-way and require that such telecommunication
facilities be installed above ground.
      Subd. 17. Denial of Permit. The City may deny a permit for failure to
meet the requirements and conditions of this Section or if the City determines
that the denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare, or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
      Subd. 18. Installation Requirements.  
         A.  General Requirements. The excavation, backfilling, patching and
restoration, and all other work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in
conformance with Minnesota Rules 7819.1100 and 7819.5000, and other applicable
City requirements, provided they are not inconsistent with the Minnesota
Statutes, Sections 237.162 and 237.163 with respect to a telecommunication
right-of-way user. Installation of service laterals shall be performed in
accordance with Minnesota Rules Chapter 7560 and this Section. Service lateral
installation is further subject to those requirements and conditions set forth
by the City in the applicable permits.
         B. Telecommunications Facility. The installation of a
telecommunications facility in the right-of-way must be done in conformance
with Minnesota Rules 7819.5000.
         C. Location of Facility.  Placement of a facility in a particular
location within the right-of-way must take into account the current and
anticipated uses of the right-of-way and the distinct engineering,
construction, operation and maintenance characteristics of each type of use.
         D. Notice Requirement.  Except in the case of an emergency, before
initiating excavation in a right-of-way, obstruction of a right-of-way for more
than two (2) hours, or obstruction of more than one (1) lane of traffic, the
right-of-way user shall notify the City in writing. The information in the
notice must include the name, address and telephone number of the right-of-way
user, and any contractors involved in the excavation; the anticipated start and
completion dates; the typical depth of the lines; and the general location of
the work.
      Subd. 19. Certificate of Completion and Inspection.
         A. Completion Certificate.  Within six (6) months after any work under
a permit is completed, or within six (6) months after any work under a permit
is suspended for the winter season or for any other reason, including but not
limited to the expiration of a permit, the permittee shall furnish a completion
certificate in accordance Minnesota Rule 7819.1300 with respect to the work
that has been completed. The completion certificate must include “abstract”
drawings or maps and comply with the Minnesota Rule 7819.1300. The permittee
shall provide the Director accurate maps, drawings, plans and specifications
certifying the “as-built” location and manner of installation of all facilities
installed, owned and maintained by the permittee, including the location and
description of any locating wires installed as part of the work. Such maps and
drawings shall include the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities
and shall be provided consistent with the City’s electronic mapping system,
when practical, or as a condition imposed by the Director.
         B. Site Inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to
the City and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the time of the permit and upon completion of the work.
         C. Authority of Director.
            1. At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work under a permit which poses a serious threat to the life,
health, safety or well-being of the public.
            2. The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work
that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to Subd.
22.
      Subd. 20. Work Done Without a Permit.
         A. Emergency Situations. Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. The registrant’s notification to Gopher State One
Call regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within
two (2) business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant
shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and
fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance
with this Section for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
         B. Notice to Local Representative. If the City becomes aware of an
emergency regarding a registrant’s facilities, the City will attempt to contact
the local representative of each registrant affected, or potentially affected,
by the emergency. In any event, the City may take whatever action it deems
necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the
registrant whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
         C. Non-Emergency Situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the
City Code, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to
the right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this Section.
      Subd. 21. Supplementary Notification. If the obstruction or excavation of
the right-of-way begins later or ends sooner than the date given on the permit,
the permittee shall notify the City of the accurate information as soon as this
information is known.
      Subd. 22. Revocation of Permits.
         A. Substantial Breach. The City, acting through the Director, reserves
its right, as provided herein, to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee
refund, if there is a substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any
statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any material condition of the
permit. A substantial breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following:
            1. A material violation of any provision of the right-of-way
permit;
            2. An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the
right-of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or
deceit upon the City or its citizens;
            3. Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
            4. The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
            5. A failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to applicable standards, conditions or codes, or a condition indicated
on an order issued pursuant to Subd. 19, Subsection C.
         B. Written Notice of Breach. If the City determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the City shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the City, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
         C. Response to Notice of Breach. Within twenty-four (24) hours of
receiving notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the City with
a plan, acceptable to the City, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s
failure to so contact the City, or the permittee’s failure to timely submit an
acceptable plan, or the permittee's failure to reasonably implement the
approved plan, shall be cause for immediate revocation of the permit, and shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one (1) full year.
         D. Cause for Probation. From time to time, the City may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place
the permittee on probation for one (1) full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right-of-way outside of
the permit authorization.
         E. Automatic Revocation. If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, the permittee’s permit will automatically be revoked
and the permittee will not be allowed further permits for one (1) full year,
except for emergency repairs.
         F. Reimbursement of City Costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney’s fees,
incurred in connection with such revocation.
      Subd. 23. Mapping Data.
         A. Information Required.  Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the City in accordance with Minnesota Rules
7819.4000 and 7819.4100. Such mapping information shall include the horizontal
and vertical location of all facilities, and shall be provided consistent with
the City’s electronic mapping system, when practical or as a condition imposed
by the Director. Failure to provide maps and drawings pursuant to this
Subsection shall be grounds for revoking the registrant’s registration or
permits.
         B. Service Laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair
of service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minnesota Rules
7560.0150 Subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and
installation of locating wires, and the service lateral vertical locations in
those cases where the Director reasonably requires it. Permittees or their
subcontractors shall submit to the Director evidence satisfactory to the
Director of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this Subd.
23, Subsection B and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minnesota
Rules governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any City approval necessary for: (1)    payments to contractors
working on a public improvement project, including those under Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 429; and (2) City approval of performance under development
agreements, or other subdivision or site plan approval under Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 462. The Director shall reasonably determine the appropriate
method of providing such information to the City. Failure to provide prompt and
accurate information on the service laterals installed may result in the
revocation of the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the
offending permittee or its subcontractors.
      Subd. 24. Location and Relocation of Facilities.  
         A. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities. Placement,
location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the ROW Statutes, with
other applicable law, and with the Minnesota Rules, to the extent the rules do
not limit authority otherwise available to the City. In this regard, a right-
of-way user shall promptly and at its own expense, with due regard for seasonal
working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its facilities in the
right-of-way when it is necessary to prevent interference, and not merely for
convenience of the City, in connection with a determination by the City that:
(1) it is in the best interest of a present or future City use of the right-of-
way for a public project; (2) it is in the best interest of public health or
safety that the right-of-way user’s facilities need to be removed or relocated;
or (3) the right-of-way facilities need to be removed or relocated in the
interest of the safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
         B.
   Corridors. The City may assign a specific area within the right-of-way, or
any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facility
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or other permits
issued by the City involving the installation or replacement of a facility
shall designate the proper corridor for the facility at issue.
         C. Variance. Any registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in
a position at variance with the corridors established by the City shall, no
later than at the time of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area
where the facilities are located, move the facilities to the assigned position
within the right-of-way, unless this requirement is waived by the City for good
cause shown, upon consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life
of the facilities, public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the
registrant.
         D. Nuisance. One year after the passage of this Section, any
facilities found in a right-of-way that are owned by a person who has not
registered shall be deemed to be a nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies
or rights it has at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, abating
the nuisance or taking possession of the facilities and restoring the right-of-
way to a useable condition.
         E. Limitation of Space. To protect health, safety, and welfare, or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the City shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the City shall
strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users
of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the
public interest, the public’s need for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future City plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest. In the exercise of authority
reserved by the City under this Subd. 24, Subsection E, the Director may
mandate that telecommunications facilities be installed above ground.
      Subd. 25. Pre-Excavation Facilities Location.  
         Notifications. In addition to complying with the requirements of
Minnesota Statutes, Section. 216D.01 - 216D.09 (“One Call Excavation Notice
System”) before the start date of any right-of-way excavation, each registrant
who has facilities or equipment in the area to be excavated shall mark the
horizontal and vertical placement of all said facilities. Any registrant whose
facilities are less than twenty (20) inches below a concrete or asphalt surface
shall notify and work closely with the excavation contractor to establish the
exact location of its facilities and the best procedure for excavation.
      Subd. 26. Damage to Other Facilities.  
         Facility Damage. When the City does work in the right-of-way and finds
it necessary to maintain, support, or move a registrant’s facilities to protect
such facilities, the City shall notify the local representative as early as is
reasonably possible. The City shall have no liability for damage to other
facilities if the owner of such facility has not registered under this Section,
or if registrant does not timely respond to a request for location or moving
such facilities, or if such facilities are damaged by City during an emergency
situation. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within thirty (30) days from the date of billing. Each registrant
shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-
way which it or its facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for
the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused
during the City’s response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant’s
facilities.
      Subd. 27. Right-of-Way Vacation.  
         Reservation of Right. If the City vacates a right-of-way that contains
the facilities of a registrant, the registrant’s right in the vacated right-of-
way are governed by Minnesota Rules 7819.3200.
      Subd. 28. Indemnification and Liability.  
         Indemnification. By registering with the City, or by accepting a
permit under this Section, a registrant or permittee agrees to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless the City in accordance with the provisions of
Minnesota Rule 7819.1250.
      Subd. 29. Abandoned and Usable Facilities.
         A. Discontinued Operations. A right-of-way user who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the City must give notice and
provide information satisfactory to the City that the right-of-way user’s
obligations for its facilities in the right-of-way under this Section have been
lawfully assumed by another registrant.
         B. Removal. Any right-of-way user who has abandoned facilities in any
right-of-way shall remove the facilities from that right-of-way if required in
conjunction with other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless
this requirement is waived by the City. If any right-of-way user fails to
remove abandoned facilities as required by this Section, following ten (10)
days written notice of its intent to do so, the City may remove the abandoned
facilities and then charge the costs for such removal to right-of-way user. The
right-of-way user shall pay such costs within ten (10) days of receipt by it of
a statement detailing such costs.
      Subd. 30. Appeal Process. A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied
registration; (2) has been denied a permit; (3) has had a permit revoked; (4)
believes that the fees imposed on the right-of-way are not in conformity with
Minnesota Statutes, Section 237.163, Subd. 6; or (5) disputes a determination
of the Director under this Section may have the denial, revocation, fee
imposition, or decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council.
The City Council shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly
scheduled meeting, provided the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with
sufficient time to include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by
the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in
writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision.
      Subd. 31. Severability. If any portion of this Section is for any reason
held invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be
deemed a separate, distinct, and independent provision, and such holding shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this
Section precludes the City from requiring a franchise agreement with the
applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to requirements set forth herein.
      Subd. 32. Work Done By Others. The registrant or person for whom work is
performed in a right-of-way of the City shall be jointly and severally
responsible for strict compliance with the terms and provisions of this Section
with the person performing the work.
Source: Ordinance No. 64      Source: Ordinance No. 72      Source: Ordinance
No. 98
Effective Date: 10-13-2011   Effective Date: 03-27-2012   Effective Date: 07-
23-2014
(Sections 4.61 through 4.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion)
SEC. 4.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.  
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this Chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 5
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LICENSING AND REGULATION
SECTION 5.01. DEFINITIONS.  
   As used in this Chapter, unless otherwise stated in specific sections, the
following words and terms shall have the meanings stated:
       1. "Alcoholic Beverage" means any beverage containing more than one-half
of one percent alcohol by volume, including, but not limited to, beer, wine and
liquor as defined in this Section.
       2. "Applicant" means any person making an application for a license
under this Chapter.
       3. "Application" means a form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be
filled in and completed by the applicant as his/her request for a license,
furnished by the City and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the
consideration of the issuance of a license for a business.
       4. "Bed and Breakfast Facility" (when license is not required) means a
place of lodging that (1) provides not more than eight (8) rooms for rent to no
more than 20 guests at a time, (2) is located on the same property as the
owner's personal residence, (3) provides no meals, other than breakfast served
to persons who rent rooms, and (4) was originally built and occupied as, or was
converted to, a single family residence prior to being used as a place of
lodging.
       5. "3.2 Beer" means malt liquor containing not less than one-half of one
percent alcohol by volume, nor more than 3.2 percent alcohol by weight.
       6. "Brewer" means a person who manufactures beer for sale.
       7. "Club" means an incorporated organization organized under the laws of
the State for civic, fraternal, social, or business purposes, for intellectual
improvement, or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered
veterans' organization, which: (1) has more than fifty members; (2) has owned
or rented a building or space in a building for more than one year that is
suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its members; (3) is directed by
a board of directors, executive committee, or other similar body chosen by the
members at a meeting held for that purpose. No member, officer, agent, or
employee shall receive any profit from the distribution or sale of beverages to
the members of the club, or their guests, beyond a reasonable salary or wages
fixed and voted each year by the governing body. Such club or congressionally
chartered veterans' organization must have been in existence for at least three
years.
       8. "Commissioner" means the Minnesota Commissioner of Public Safety.
       9. "Exclusive Liquor Store" means an establishment used exclusively for
the sale of liquor except for the incidental sale of ice, tobacco, beer,
beverages for mixing with liquor, soft drinks, liqueur-filled candies, food
products that contain more than one-half of 1% alcohol by volume, cork
extraction devices, books and videos on the use of alcoholic beverages,
magazines and other publications published primarily for information and
education on alcoholic beverages, and the establishment may offer recorded or
live entertainment.
      10. "Hotel" means an establishment where food and lodging are regularly
furnished to transients and which has: (1) a dining room serving the general
public at tables and having facilities for seating at least thirty guests at
one time; and (2) at least ten guest rooms.
      11. "License" means a document, issued by the City, to an applicant
permitting him/her to carry on and transact the business stated therein.
      12. "Licensee" means an applicant who, pursuant to his/her approved
application, holds a valid, current, unexpired license, which has neither been
revoked nor is then under suspension, from the City for carrying on the
business stated therein.
      13. "License Fee" means the money paid to the City pursuant to an
application and prior to issuance of a license to transact and carry on the
business stated therein.
      14. "Licensed Premises" means the space or structure described in the
issued license. In the case of a restaurant or a club licensed for on-sales of
alcoholic beverages and located on a golf course, "licensed premises" means the
entire golf course except for areas where motor vehicles are regularly parked
or operated.
      15. "Liquor" means ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented, spirituous,
vinous and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2 percent of alcohol by
weight.
      16. "Malt Liquor" means any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt
by fermentation and containing not less than one-half of one percent alcohol by
volume.
      17. "Manufacturer" means every person who, by any process of manufacture,
fermenting, brewing, distilling, refining, rectifying, blending, or by the
combination of different materials, prepares or produces alcoholic beverages
for sale.
      18. "Minor" means any natural person who has not attained the age of 2l
years.
      19. "Off-Sale" means the sale of alcoholic beverages in original packages
for consumption off the licensed premises only.
      20. "On-Sale" means the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on
the licensed premises only.
      21. "Package" and "Original Package" mean any container or receptacle
holding alcoholic beverages, which container or receptacle is corked, capped or
sealed by a manufacturer or wholesaler.
      22. "Restaurant" means an establishment, other than a hotel, under the
control of a single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared
on the premises and served at tables to the general public, and having a
minimum seating capacity for 40 guests.
      23. "Sale", "Sell" and "Sold" mean all barters and all manners or means
of furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons, including such furnishing in
violation or evasion of law.
      24. "Wholesaler" means any person engaged in the business of selling
alcoholic beverages to a licensee from a stock maintained in a warehouse.
      25.  "Wine" means the product made from the normal alcoholic fermentation
of grapes, including still wine, sparkling and carbonated wine, wine made from
condensed grape must, wine made from other agricultural products than sound,
ripe grapes, imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, perry and
sake. (This definition includes "wine coolers" with the alcoholic content
limits stated herein.) For purposes of on-sale wine licenses, "wine" may
contain up to 14 percent alcohol by volume for consumption with the sale of
food. For all other purposes, "wine" is a product containing not less than one-
half of one percent nor more than 24 percent alcohol by volume for
nonindustrial use.
Source: Ordinance No. 103
Effective Date: 06-26-2015
SEC. 5.02. APPLICATIONS AND LICENSES UNDER THIS CHAPTER - PROCEDURE AND
ADMINISTRATION.
      Subd. 1. Applications. 
         A. Forms. Application forms shall be prepared and furnished by the
City Administrator. All questions asked or information required by the
application forms shall be answered fully and completely by the applicant
before the application shall be considered.
         B. Restaurant Requirements. All applications for an on-site
intoxicating liquor license under Section 5.50 hereof shall include (1) a copy
of a current food establishment license issued by Lake County and (2) if the
application is for a strong beer and wine license, a copy of the applicant’s
sales tax returns for the twelve (12) months preceding the date of the
application.
      Subd. 2. False Statements. It is unlawful for any applicant to
intentionally make a false statement or omission upon any application form. Any
false statement in such application, or any willful omission to state any
information called for on such application form shall, upon discovery of such
falsehood, work an automatic refusal of license, or if already issued, shall
render any license issued pursuant thereto void and of no effect to protect the
applicant from prosecution for violation of this Chapter, or any part thereof.
      Subd. 3. Action.
         A. Granting. The Council may approve any application for the period of
the remainder of the then current license year or for the entire ensuing
license year. All applications including proposed license periods must be
consistent with this Chapter. Prior to consideration of any application for a
license, the applicant shall pay the license fee, and if applicable, pay the
investigation fee. Upon rejection of any application for a license, or upon
withdrawal of an application before consideration by the Council, the license
fee shall be refunded to the applicant. Failure to pay any portion of a fee
when due shall be cause for revocation.
         B. Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator
shall forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the
City or the Commissioner, as the case may be. Except as otherwise specifically
provided, all licenses shall be issued for one year, commencing June 1 until
May 31 of the following year. Beginning October 1, 2011, all licenses shall be
issued for one (1) year, commencing October 1 until September 30 of the
following year. Applications shall be submitted by September 1, 2011 for those
licenses set to expire May 31, 2012 along with a fee representing the pro rata
fee for extending the term of the present license for four (4) months. If an
application is approved, the license shall be issued for October 1, 2011 to
September 30, 2012. For licenses issued and which are to become effective other
than on the first day of the licensed year, the fee to be paid with the
application the annual license fee will not be prorated. Licenses shall be
valid at only one (1) location and on the premises therein described.
         C. Transfer.  No license shall be transferable between persons or to a
different location without prior consent of the Council. Any change in
individual ownership, incorporation, or substitution of partners is a transfer.
It is unlawful to make any transfer in violation of this Subparagraph.
         D. Refusal and Termination. The Council may, in its sole discretion
and for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application. No license shall
be granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or revocation.
         E. Public Interest. No license under this Chapter may be issued,
transferred, or renewed if the results of any investigation show, to the
satisfaction of the Council, that such issuance, transfer, or renewal would not
be in the public interest.
         F. Revocation or Suspension. For any license granted under the
provisions of this Chapter, the Council may revoke, suspend for a period not to
exceed sixty days, impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000.00, or any
combination of these sanctions, for each violation on a finding that the
licensee has failed to comply with a statute, regulation or provision of the
City Code relating to alcoholic beverages. The Council shall revoke the license
upon conviction of any licensee or agent or employee of a licensee for
violating any law relating to the sale or possession of beer, wine or liquor
upon premises of the licensee, or if such revocation is mandatory by Statute.
If it shall be made to appear at the hearing thereon that such violation was
not willful, the Council may order suspension; provided that revocation shall
be ordered upon the third such violation or offense. No suspension or
revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing before the Council, a committee of the Council, or a
hearing under the Administrative Procedures Act, as may be determined by the
Council in action calling the hearing. Such hearing shall be called by the
Council upon written notice to the licensee served in person or by certified
mail not less than fifteen nor more than thirty days prior to the hearing date,
stating the time, place and purpose thereof. As additional restrictions or
regulations on licensees under this Chapter, and in addition to grounds for
revocation or suspension stated in the City Code or Statute, the following
shall also be grounds for such action: (1) that the licensee suffered or
permitted illegal acts upon licensed premises unrelated to the sale of beer,
wine or liquor; (2) that the licensee had knowledge of such illegal acts upon
licensed premises, but failed to report the same to police; (3) that the
licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with police in investigating such
alleged illegal acts upon licensed premises; or, (4) that the activities of the
licensee created a serious danger to public health, safety, or welfare.
         G. Corporate Applicants and Licensees. A corporate applicant, at the
time of application, shall furnish the City with a list of all persons that
have an interest in such corporation and the extent of such interest. The list
shall name all shareholders and show the number of shares held by each, either
individually or beneficially for others. It is the duty of each corporate
licensee to notify the City Administrator in writing of any change in legal
ownership, or beneficial interest in such corporation or in such shares. Any
change in the ownership or beneficial interest in the shares entitled to be
voted at a meeting of the shareholders of a corporate licensee, which results
in the change of voting control of the corporation by the persons owning the
shares therein, shall be deemed equivalent to a transfer of the license issued
to the corporation, and any such license shall be revoked thirty days after any
such change in ownership or beneficial interest of shares unless the Council
has been notified of the change in writing and has approved it by appropriate
action. The Council, or any officer of the City designated by it, may at any
reasonable time examine the stock transfer records and minute books of any
corporate licensee in order to verify and identify the shareholders, and the
Council or its designated officer may examine the business records of any other
licensee to the extent necessary to disclose the interest which persons other
than the licensee have in the licensed business. The Council may revoke any
license issued upon its determination that a change of ownership of shares in a
corporate licensee or any change of ownership of any interest in the business
of any other licensee has actually resulted in the change of control of the
licensed business so as materially to affect the integrity and character of its
management and its operation, but no such action shall be taken until after a
hearing by the Council on notice to the licensee.
      Subd. 4. Duplicate Licenses. Duplicates of all original licenses under
this Chapter may be issued by the City Administrator without action by the
Council, upon licensee's affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon
payment of the fee adopted by resolution of the Council for issuance of the
duplicate. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked DUPLICATE.
      Subd. 5. Posting. All licensees shall conspicuously post their licenses
in their places of business.
      Subd. 6. Resident Manager or Agent. Before a license is issued under this
Chapter to an individual who is a non-resident of the City, to more than one
(1) individual whether or not they are residents of the City, or to a
corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or association, the
applicant or applicants shall appoint in writing a natural person who is a
resident of the City or resides within forty (40) miles of the City, as its
manager or agent. Such manager or agent shall, by the terms of his/her written
consent, (1) take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed premises,
and (2) serve as agent for service of notices and other process relating to the
license. Such manager or agent must be a person who, by reason of age,
character, reputation, and other attributes, could qualify individually as a
licensee. If such manager or agent ceases to be a resident of the City or
reside within forty (40) miles of the City or ceases to act in such capacity
for the licensee without appointment of a successor, the license issued
pursuant to such appointment shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
      Subd. 7. Persons Disqualified.
         A. No license under this Chapter may be issued, or renewed, to: (1) a
person who within five years of the license application has been convicted of
any felony or a willful violation of a Federal or State law, or local ordinance
governing the manufacture, sale, distribution, or possession for sale or
distribution, of alcoholic beverages; (2) a person who has had an alcoholic
beverage license revoked within five years of the license application, or to
any person who at the time of the violation owns any interest, whether as a
holder of more than five percent of the capital stock of a corporate licensee,
as a partner or otherwise, in the premises or in the business conducted
thereon, or to a corporation, partnership, association, enterprise, business,
or firm in which any such person is in any manner interested; (3) a person
under the age of twenty-one years; (4) a person not of good moral character and
repute; or, (5) a person not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien.
         B. No person holding a license from the Commissioner as a
manufacturer, brewer (except as provided by statute), wholesaler or importer,
may have a direct or indirect interest, in whole or in part, in a business
holding an alcoholic beverage license from the City.
Source: Ordinance No. 58
Effective Date: 10-29-2010
SEC. 5.03. RENEWAL LICENSE APPLICATIONS.  
   Applications for renewal of all licenses under this Chapter shall be made at
least sixty (60) days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall
contain such information as is required by the City.
SEC. 5.04. DELINQUENT TAXES AND CHARGES.
      Subd. 1. Premises. No license under this Chapter shall be granted for
operation on any premises upon which taxes, assessments, or installments
thereof, or other financial claims of the City, are owed and are delinquent and
unpaid.
      Subd. 2. Business. No license shall be granted, transferred, or renewed
and shall be revoked if the Commissioner notifies the City that the licensee
owes the State delinquent unemployment insurance contributions, reimbursements,
or benefit overpayments.
   SEC. 5.05. CONDITIONAL LICENSES. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the
contrary, the Council may, upon a finding of the necessity therefor, place such
special conditions and restrictions, in addition to those stated in this
Chapter, upon any license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and
justified.
   SEC. 5.06. PREMISES LICENSED. A license issued under the provisions of this
Chapter shall be valid only for the premises described in the license, and all
transactions relating to a sale under such license must take place within such
space or structure.
SEC. 5.07. CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   Except as herein provided, every licensee under this Chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of his/her place of business and shall maintain
conditions of sobriety and order therein.
SEC. 5.08. SALE BY EMPLOYEE.
   Any sale of an alcoholic beverage in or from any premises licensed under
this Chapter by any employee authorized to make such sale in or from such place
is the act of the employer as well as of the person actually making the sale;
and every such employer is liable to all of the penalties, except criminal
penalties, provided by law for such sale, equally with the person actually
making the sale.
SEC. 5.09. LICENSE CONDITION AND UNLAWFUL ACT.
      Subd. 1. All premises licensed under this Chapter shall at all times be
open to inspection by any police officer to determine whether or not this
Chapter and all other laws are being observed. All persons, as a condition to
being issued such license, consent to such inspection by such officers and
without a warrant for searches or seizures.
      Subd. 2. It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent or employee of a
licensee, to hinder or prevent a police officer from making such inspection.
SEC. 5.10. LICENSE FEES AND REFUNDS.
      Subd. 1. Fixing Fees. Except as otherwise specifically provided, all fees
for licenses provided for in this Chapter, including but not limited to,
license fees, investigation and administration fees, shall be fixed and
determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such
fees may, from time-to-time, be amended by resolution of the Council.
      Subd. 2. Fee Increases. Notwithstanding other provisions of this Chapter,
no license fee shall be increased except after notice and hearing on the
proposed increase. Notice of the proposed increase shall be mailed to all
affected licensees at least thirty (30) days before the date set for hearing.
      Subd. 3. Refunds.  A pro-rata share of an annual license fee paid
pursuant to this Chapter shall be refunded to the licensee, or to his/her
estate, if: (1) the business ceases to operate because of destruction or
damage; (2) the licensee dies; or (3) the business becomes unlawful for a
reason other than a license revocation or suspension.
   SEC. 5.11. FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEES.
      Subd. 1. Proof. No alcoholic beverage license shall be issued or renewed
unless and until the applicant has provided proof of financial responsibility,
imposed by Statute, by filing with the City:
         A. A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing minimum coverages of (1) $50,000.00 because of bodily injury to any
one person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person, in
the amount of $100,000.00 because of bodily injury to two or more persons in
any one occurrence, and in the amount of $10,000.00 because of injury to or
destruction of property of others in any one occurrence, and (2) $50,000.00 for
loss of means of support of any one person in any one occurrence, and, subject
to the limit for one person, $100,000.00 for loss of means of support of two or
more persons in any one occurrence; an annual aggregate of $300,000.00 may be
included in the insurance coverage; or,
         B. A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided in
Subparagraph A of this Subdivision; or,
         C. A certificate of the State Treasurer that the licensee has
deposited with him/her $100,000.00 in cash or securities which may legally be
purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market value of
$100,000.00.
      Subd. 2. Exception. This Section does not apply to on-sale beer licensees
with sales of beer of less than $25,000.00 for the preceding year, nor to off-
sale beer licensees with sales of beer of less than $50,000.00 for the
preceding year, nor does it apply to holders of on-sale wine licenses with
sales of wine of less than $25,000.00 for the preceding year. An affidavit of
the licensee shall be required to establish the exemption under this
Subdivision.
      Subd. 3. Documents Submitted to Commissioner. All proofs of financial
responsibility and exemption affidavits filed with the City under this Section
shall be submitted by the City to the Commissioner.
SEC. 5.12. INSURANCE CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.  
   Whenever an insurance certificate is required by this Chapter the applicant
shall file with the City Administrator a certificate of insurance showing (1)
that the limits are at least as high as required, (2) that coverage is
effective for at least the license term approved, and (3) that such insurance
will not be cancelled or terminated without ten (10) days written notice for
nonpayment of premium and thirty (30) days written notice for all other
reasons, which shall be served by certified mail or personally upon the City
Administrator. Cancellation or termination of such coverage shall be grounds
for license revocation or suspension. Notice of cancellation of an insurance
policy shall constitute notice to the licensee insured under the policy that
the licensee’s license shall be suspended or revoked unless evidence of
compliance with the insurance certificate requirements of this Chapter shall be
presented to the City Council before the cancellation of the insurance policy
is effective.
Source: Ordinance No. 58
Effective Date: 10-29-2010
SEC. 5.13. MINORS AS DEFINED IN SECTION 5.01 - UNLAWFUL ACTS.
      Subd. 1. Consumption. It is unlawful for any:
         A. Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises.
         B. Minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of the
minor's parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of such parent or
guardian.
      Subd. 2. Purchasing. It is unlawful for any:
         A.  Person to sell, barter, furnish, or give alcoholic beverages to a
minor unless such person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only
for consumption in the household of such parent or guardian.
         B. Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverage.
         C. Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic
beverage.
      Subd. 3. Possession. It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic
beverage with the intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
the minor's parent or guardian. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor
at a place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie
evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of his/her
parent or guardian.
      Subd. 4. Entering Licensed Premises. It is unlawful for any minor, as
defined in this Chapter, to enter licensed premises or the municipal liquor
store for the purpose of purchasing or consuming any alcoholic beverage. It is
not unlawful for any person who has attained the age of eighteen years to enter
licensed premises for the following purposes: (1) to perform work for the
establishment, including the serving of alcoholic beverages, unless otherwise
prohibited by statute; (2) to consume meals; and (3) to attend social functions
that are held in a portion of the establishment where liquor is not sold. It is
unlawful for a licensee to permit a person under the age of eighteen years to
enter licensed premises unless attending a social event at which alcoholic
beverages are not served, or in the company of a parent or guardian.
      Subd. 5. Misrepresentation of Age. It is unlawful for a minor to
misrepresent his/her age for the purpose of purchasing an alcoholic beverage.
      Subd. 6. Proof of Age. Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by a valid driver's license or identification
card issued by Minnesota, another State, or a province of Canada, and including
the photograph and date of birth of the licensed person; or by a valid military
identification card issued by the United States Department of Defense; or, in
the case of a foreign national, from a nation other than Canada, by a valid
passport.
SEC. 5.14. GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any licensee to keep, possess, or operate, or permit the
keeping, possession, or operation on licensed premises of dice or any other
gambling device, or permit raffles to be conducted, except such as are
authorized by Statute or the City Code.
SEC. 5.15. CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON STREETS, PUBLIC
PROPERTY, AND PRIVATE PARKING LOTS TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HAS ACCESS.
   It is unlawful for any person to consume, or possess in an unsealed
container, any alcoholic beverage on any (1) City building, (2) street, or (3)
private parking lot to which the public has access, except on such premises
when and where permission has been specifically granted or licensed by the
Council. Provided, that this Section shall not apply to the possession of an
unsealed container in a motor vehicle when the container is kept in the trunk
of such vehicle if it is equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other area of
the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers, if the motor
vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. For the purpose of this Section, a
utility or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied by
the driver or passengers. Provided, further, that this Section shall not apply
to a bus operated under a charter, or to a limousine, both as defined by
statute.
SEC. 5.16. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.  
   It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon, or have in his/her
possession upon, or in, any public elementary or secondary school ground, or
any public elementary or secondary school building, any alcoholic beverage,
except for experiments in laboratories and except for those organizations who
have been issued temporary licenses to sell alcoholic beverages, and for any
person to possess alcoholic beverages as a result of a purchase from those
organizations holding temporary licenses.
SEC. 5.17. ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES - CERTAIN UNLAWFUL ACTS.  
   It is unlawful for any:
      Subd. 1. Person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or
purchase of an alcoholic beverage.
      Subd. 2.  Licensee to sell or serve an alcoholic beverage to any person
who is obviously intoxicated.
      Subd. 3.  Licensee to fail, where doubt could exist, to require adequate
proof of age of a person upon licensed premises.
      Subd. 4. Licensee to sell an alcoholic beverage on any day, or during any
hour, when such sales are not permitted by law.
      Subd. 5.  Licensee to allow consumption of an alcoholic beverage on
licensed premises on any day, or during any hour, when such consumption is not
permitted by law.
      Subd. 6.  Person to purchase an alcoholic beverage on any day, or during
any hour, when such sales are not permitted by law.
SEC. 5.18. WORKER'S COMPENSATION.  
   No license to operate a business shall be issued by the City until the
applicant presents his/her employer's tax identification number and acceptable
evidence of compliance with the worker's compensation insurance coverage
requirement of Minnesota Statutes by providing the name of the insurance
company, the policy number, and dates of coverage, or the permit to self-
insure.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
SEC. 5.19. CLOSING TIME, EMPLOYEE NAME TAGS.
      Subd. 1. Vacate Premises. All customers and “non-working” employees shall
vacate the premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued by
within thirty (30) minutes after the posted closing time for the establishment.
For the purposes of this section, “non-working” employees shall mean:
         A. Any employee who is not listed on a posted active duty; and/or
         B. Any employee who, although he or she is listed on the posted active
duty roster in conformance with the above subdivision is not receiving
compensation for his or her activity on the premises.
         C. It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to assure compliance
with this Section, and non-compliance shall, in addition to being a violation
of this Chapter, constitute grounds for suspension or revocation of the
licensee’s license.
Source: Ordinance No. 58
Effective Date: 10-29-2010
SEC. 5.20. HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
      Subd. 1. 3.2 Beer. No sale of 3.2 beer may be made between the hours of
1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through Saturday, nor between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sunday, except as provided in Subd. 5 of
this Section.
      Subd. 2. Liquor; On-Sale. No sale of liquor may be made by an on-sale
licensee between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on any day, except as
provided in Subd. 5 of this Section.
      Subd. 3. Liquor; Off-Sale.  No sale of liquor may be made by an off-sale
licensee:
         A. On Sundays, except between the hours of 11:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.,
or as provided in Section 5.73, Subd. 3, Subsection B;
         B. Before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday;
         C. On Thanksgiving Day;
         D. On Christmas Day, December 25; or
         E. After 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve, December 24.
      Subd. 4. Consumption and Display. No establishment with a consumption and
display license may permit a person to consume or display liquor, and no person
may consume or display liquor between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on
Sundays, and between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday.
      Subd. 5. Sales After 1:00 a.m. Sales of alcoholic beverages may be made
after 1:00 a.m. if the provisions of Section 5.33 are satisfied.
Source: Ordinance No. 103      Source: Ordinance No. 109
Effective Date: 06-26-2015      Effective Date: 07-12-2017
(Sections 5.21 through 5.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 5.30. BEER LICENSE REQUIRED.  
   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense or by
any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, charge for possession, or otherwise
dispose of beer, as part of a commercial transaction, without a license
therefor from the City. This Section shall not apply to sales by manufacturers
to wholesalers or to sales by wholesalers to persons holding beer licenses from
the City. Annual on-sale beer licenses may be issued only to drug stores,
restaurants, hotels, bowling centers, clubs, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of beer with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft
drinks. Any person licensed to sell liquor on-sale shall not be required to
obtain an on-sale beer license, and may sell beer on-sale without an additional
license.
SEC. 5.31. TEMPORARY BEER LICENSE.
      Subd. 1. Applicant. A club or charitable, religious, or non-profit
organization shall qualify for a temporary on-sale beer license.
      Subd. 2. Conditions.
         A. An application for a temporary license shall state the exact dates
and place of proposed temporary sale.
         B. The Council may, but at no time shall it be under any obligation
whatsoever to, grant a temporary beer license on premises owned or controlled
by the City. Any such license may be conditioned, qualified or restricted as
the Council sees fit. If the premises to be licensed are owned or under the
control of the City, the applicant shall file with the City, prior to issuance
of the license, a certificate of liability insurance coverage in at least the
sum of $50,000.00 for injury to any one person and $100,000.00 for injury to
more than one person, and $10,000.00 for property damage, naming the City as an
insured during the license period. Such license shall be issued only on the
condition that the applicant will not sell in excess of $10,000.00 (retail
value) worth of beer in the 12-month period beginning June 1 and ending May 31,
and thereupon shall be exempt from proof of financial responsibility as
provided for herein.
         C. The applicant shall comply with all other restrictions, limitations
and regulations for the sale of beer under the City Code and Statutes.
(Section 5.32 reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 5.33. SPECIAL 2:00 O'CLOCK A.M. LICENSE.
      Subd. 1. License Authorized. The Council may issue a Special 2:00 o'clock
A.M. License authorizing a Licensee to sell alcoholic beverages until 2:00
o'clock A.M. on no more than twelve (12) days.
      Subd. 2. Applicant. An applicant for a license issued pursuant to this
Section must be a current Licensee or applying to become a Licensee.
      Subd. 3. Terms and Conditions of License.
         A. The Council may, but at no time shall it be under any obligation
whatsoever to, grant a Special 2:00 o'clock A.M. License. The Council may deny
any such application out of concern for the health, safety, or general welfare
of the City or the public. Any such license may be conditioned, qualified, or
restricted as the Council sees fit.
         B. A license issued pursuant to this Section may be issued to a
Licensee to sell alcoholic beverages until 2:00 o'clock A.M. on no more than
twelve (12) days during the term of the Licensee's license.
      Subd. 4. Fees. The annual license fee for a license to be issued pursuant
to this Section shall be as established form time to time by a resolution of
the City Council.
      Subd. 5. Other Licenses. An Optional 2:00 A.M. Liquor License must also
be obtained from the Commissioner.
Source: Ordinance No. 84         
Effective Date: 01-19-2013
(Sections 5.34 through 5.49, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 5.50. LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED. 
    It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense or
by any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, charge for possession, or
otherwise dispose of liquor, as part of a commercial transaction, without a
license therefor from the City. This Section shall not apply (1) to such
potable liquors as are intended for therapeutic purposes and not as a beverage,
(2) to industrial alcohol and its compounds not prepared or used for beverage
purposes, (3) to wine in the possession of a person duly licensed under this
Chapter as an on-sale wine licensee, (4) to sales by manufacturers to
wholesalers duly licensed as such by the Commissioner, (5) to sales by
wholesalers to persons holding liquor licenses from the City, or (6) to the
municipal liquor store. The voters of the City having authorized such issuance
at a special election called for that purpose, the City may issue on-sale
liquor licenses to hotels, restaurants, and clubs (with the permission of the
Commissioner), provided that liquor sales will be made only to members and bona
fide guests. Any person licensed to sell liquor on-sale shall not be required
to obtain an on-sale beer license, and may sell beer on-sale without an
additional license.
SEC. 5.51. SUNDAY SALES.
      Subd. 1. License Required. The electorate of the City having heretofore
authorized the same at a general or special election, a Sunday on-sale liquor
license may be issued to hotels, restaurants, clubs, or bowling centers, in
conjunction with the sale of food, which have on-sale liquor licenses and which
also have seating capacity for not less than forty guests at one time. Prior to
issuance of such license, the applicant shall provide the City with proof of
financial responsibility for Sunday sales.
      Subd. 2. Unlawful Acts. It is unlawful to sell liquor on Sunday unless
such sales are (1) licensed in accordance with this Section, (2) in conjunction
with the sale of food, and, (3) during hours of permitted sales.
      Subd. 3. Council Approval Required for Temporary License. Licenses issued
to clubs, charitable, religious, or other non-profit organization in existence
for at least three (3) years, or a political committee registered under
Minnesota Statutes, Section 10A.14, shall be considered a temporary license and
shall authorize the licensee to sell intoxicating liquor only on those Sundays
that thirty (30) days written notice has been submitted to the City Council. In
no event shall a licensee be entitled to sell intoxicating liquor on more than
twelve (12) Sundays within a twelve (12)-month period.
Source: Ordinance No. 28         Source: Ordinance No. 39
Effective Date: 08-19-2008         Effective Date: 12-27-2006   
Source: Ordinance No. 43         Source: Ordinance No. 103
Effective Date: 05-14-2008      Effective Date: 06-26-2015
SEC. 5.52. SPORTS, CONVENTION OR CULTURAL FACILITIES LICENSE.  
   The Council may authorize any holder of an on-sale liquor license issued by
the City or by an adjacent municipality to sell liquor at any convention,
banquet, conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the premises of a
sports, convention or cultural facility owned by the City, or instrumentality
thereof having independent policy-making and appropriating authority and
located within the City. The licensee must be engaged to sell liquor at such an
event by the person or organization permitted to use the premises, and may sell
liquor only to persons attending the event. The licensee shall not sell liquor
to any person attending or participating in any amateur athletic event. Such
sales may be limited to designated areas of the facility. All such sales shall
be subject to all laws relating thereto. The licensee shall provide proof of
the extension of financial responsibility coverage to the premises on which
such sales are to be made.
SEC. 5.53. TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE.
      Subd. 1. License Authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the City
Code to the contrary, the Council may issue a license for the temporary on-sale
of liquor in connection with a social event sponsored by the licensee. Such
license may provide that the licensee may contract with the holder of a full-
year on-sale license, issued by the City, for liquor catering services.
      Subd. 2. Applicant. The applicant for a license under this Section must
be a club or charitable, religious, or other non-profit organization in
existence for at least three years, or a political committee registered under
Section 10A.14 of Minnesota Statutes.
      Subd. 3. Terms and Conditions of License.
         A. No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.
         B. No license shall be issued for more than four consecutive days.
         C. No temporary license shall issue until the City is furnished with
written proof that the licensee has dram shop coverage in the amount provided
for in this Chapter, and that such coverage is in force on the premises where
liquor is to be served.
         D. All licenses and licensees are subject to all provisions of
statutes and the City Code relating to liquor sale and licensing. The licensee
shall provide proof of financial responsibility coverage and, in the case of
catering by a full-year on-sale licensee, such caterer shall provide proof of
the extension of such coverage to the licensed premises.
         E. Licenses may authorize sales on premises other than those owned or
permanently occupied by the licensee.
         F. No more than three four-day, four three-day, six two-day, or twelve
one-day licenses in any combination not to exceed 12 days per year may be
issued to any one organization or registered political committee, or for any
one location within a 12-month period. In no event shall a licensee be entitled
to sell intoxicating liquor on more than 12 Sundays within a 12-month period.
         G. No more than one temporary license may be issued to any one
organization or registered political committee or for any one location within
any 30-day period.
         H. Licenses shall authorize the licensee to sell intoxicating liquor
only on those Sundays that 30 days written notice has been submitted to the
City Council.
      Subd. 4. Insurance Required. The Council may, but at no time shall it be
under any obligation whatsoever to, grant a temporary liquor license on
premises owned or controlled by the City. Any such license may be conditioned,
qualified or restricted as the Council sees fit. If the premises to be licensed
are owned or under the control of the City, the applicant shall file with the
City, prior to issuance of the license, a certificate of liability insurance
coverage in at least the sum of $50,000.00 for injury to any one person,
$100,000.00 for injury to more than one person, and $10,000.00 for property
damage, naming the City as an insured during the license period.
Source: Ordinance No. 43
Effective Date: 05-14-2008
(Sections 5.54 through 5.69, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 5.70. ON-SALE WINE LICENSE NOT REQUIRED FOR BED AND BREAKFAST FACILITY.  
   No on-sale wine license is required for a bed and breakfast facility as
defined in this Chapter and registered with the Commissioner, provided such
facility provides no more than two glasses per day each containing not more
than four fluid ounces of wine at no additional charge to a person renting a
room at the facility. Wine so furnished may be consumed on the premises of the
bed and breakfast facility.
(Section 5.71 reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 5.72. LIQUOR AND ON-SALE WINE LICENSE RESTRICTIONS, REGULATIONS AND
UNLAWFUL ACTS.
      Subd. 1. Licenses in Connection With Premises of Another. A license may
not be issued to a person in connection with the premises of another to whom a
license could not be issued under the provisions of this Chapter. This
Subdivision does not prevent the granting of a license to a proper lessee
because the person has leased the premises of a minor, a non-citizen who is not
a resident alien, or a person who has been convicted of a crime other than a
violation of this Chapter.
      Subd. 2. Employment of Minors. No person under eighteen (18) years of age
may sell or serve liquor or wine on licensed premises.
      Subd. 3. Premises Eligible.  On-sale wine licenses shall be granted only
to restaurants as defined in this Chapter. Provided, however, for purposes of
this Subdivision, such restaurant shall have appropriate facilities for seating
not less than 40 guests at one time.
      Subd. 4. Removal of Wine From Restaurant. An establishment licensed to
sell liquor or wine at on-sale under this Chapter may permit a person
purchasing a full bottle of wine in conjunction with the purchase of a meal to
remove the bottle on leaving the licensed premises provided that the bottle has
been opened and the contents partially consumed. A removal of a bottle under
the conditions described in this provision is not an off-sale of liquor and may
be permitted without additional license.
      Subd. 5. Church and School Restriction. No license shall be granted for
any building within 300 feet of any public elementary or secondary school
structure or within 100 feet of any church structure.
      Subd. 6. Number of Licenses.
         A.  The Council may, from time to time, issue up to five (5) on-sale
liquor licenses as it may, in its discretion, deem proper.
         B.  The Council may issue the number of on-sale wine licenses
authorized by statute or restrict such number from time to time as it may, in
its discretion, deem proper.
      Subd. 7. Intoxicating Malt Liquor Sale Without License.  The holder of an
on-sale wine license issued pursuant to this Chapter who is also licensed to
sell beer at on-sale, and whose gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to
the sale of food, is authorized to sell intoxicating malt liquor at on-sale
without an additional license.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
SEC. 5.73. SMALL BREWER OFF-SALE.
      Subd. 1. License Authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the City
Code to the contrary, the Council may issue a small brewer off-sale license,
which may also be known as the micro-small brewer off-sale malt liquor license,
for the off-sale of malt liquor produced and packaged on the licensed premises.
      Subd. 2. Applicant. The applicant for a license under this Section must
be a brewer licensed under Minnesota Statutes, Section 340A.301, Subdivision 6
(d), (i), or (j) in order to be licensed for the off-sale of malt liquor
produced and packaged on the licensed premises.
      Subd. 3. Terms and Conditions of License.
         A. No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.
         B. No off-sale of malt liquor may be made by a small brewer licensee
before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Sunday, nor on
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or after 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve.
         C. The malt liquor shall be packaged in sixty-four (64) ounce
containers commonly known as “growlers”, on in seven hundred fifty (750)
milliliter bottles, and bear a twist-type closure, cork, stopper or plug.
         D. The malt liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the licensed
premise before 10:00 p.m.
         E. At the time of sale, the “growler” or seven hundred fifty (750)
milliliter bottle must be sealed by a paper or adhesive band strip or sleeve
that is applied over the top of the twist-type closure, cork, stopper or plug
in such a manner that the seal must be broken in order to open the container
and the adhesive band or strip or sleeve shall bear the name and address of
brewer.
         F. The “growlers” or seven hundred fifty (750) milliliter bottles
shall be identified as malt liquor, contain the name of the malt liquor, bear
the name and address of the brewer selling the malt liquor, and shall be
considered intoxicating liquor unless the alcoholic content is labeled as
otherwise in accordance with applicable Minnesota law, rules and regulations.
         G. A brewer’s total retail sales at on- or off-sale under this Section
5.73 and Section 5.74 may not exceed three thousand five hundred (3,500)
barrels per year and off-sales under this Section 5.73 may not exceed five
hundred (500) barrels per year.
         H. All other provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations shall be applicable to
licenses issued pursuant to this Section 5.73 and the licensees of such
licenses unless inconsistent with the provisions of this section.
      Subd. 4. Fees. The annual license fee for a license to be issued pursuant
to this Section 5.73 shall be established from time to time by a resolution of
the City Council.
      Subd. 5. Other Licenses. A brewer licensed under this Section may hold or
have an interest in a retail on-sale license issued pursuant to Section 5.74 of
this Code unless the brewer licensed under this Section was licensed as a
brewer under Minnesota Statutes, Section 340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (d).
Source: Ordinance No. 76         Source: Ordinance No. 103
Effective Date: 06-29-2012      Effective Date: 06-26-2015
SEC. 5.74. BREWER TAPROOMS.
      Subd. 1. License Authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the City
Code to the contrary, the Council may issue a brewer taproom license for the
on-sale of malt liquor produced on the licensed premises.
      Subd. 2. Applicant. The applicant for a license under this Section must
be a brewer licensed under Minnesota Statutes, Section 340A.301, Subd. 6(c),
(i), or (j).
      Subd. 3. Terms and Conditions of License.
         A. No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.
         B. No off-sale of malt liquor may be made by a small brewer licensee
before 8:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Sunday, nor on
Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, or after 8:00 p.m. on Christmas Eve.
         C. A brewer may only hold one (1) brewer taproom license under this
Section 5.74 and may not have an ownership interest in a brewery licensed under
Minnesota Statutes, Section 340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (d).
         D. The only alcoholic beverage that may be sold or consumed on the
premises of the holder of a brewer taproom license will be the malt liquor
produced by the brewer.
         E. All other provisions of this chapter, and all other applicable
laws, statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations shall be applicable to
licenses issued pursuant to this Section 5.74 and the licensees of such
licenses unless inconsistent with the provisions of this Section.
         F. Nothing in this Section 5.74 precludes the holder of a brewer
taproom license from also holding a license to operate a restaurant on the
premises of the brewery.
      Subd. 4. Fees. The annual license fee for a license issued pursuant to
this Section 5.74, which includes the authorization for Sunday sales, shall be
as established from time to time by a resolution of the City Council.
Source: Ordinance No. 76         Source: Ordinance No. 103
Effective Date: 06-29-2012      Effective Date: 06-26-2015
(Sections 5.75 through 5.79, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 5.80. CLUB LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS, AND UNLAWFUL ACTS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         A. "Member" means any person in good standing according to rules and
regulations of the licensed club, wherever located, having evidence of current
membership upon his/her person.
         B. "Guest" means a person not a member of the club but present on the
club licensed premises in the company of a host member.
         C. "Host member" means a member who is entertaining a guest who is in
the member's company at all times such guest is on the licensed premises.
      Subd. 2. Daily Register. In addition to all other general provisions,
restrictions and regulations set forth in this Chapter, relating to beer or
liquor licensees, as the case may be, all club licensees shall keep a daily
register showing the names of guests present and the name of the host member.
Such register shall be open to inspection by police officers at all times.
      Subd. 3. Unlawful Acts. The following are in addition to all other
unlawful acts set forth in this Chapter relating to sales and purchases of beer
or liquor, as the case may be:
         A. It is unlawful for any club licensee to hinder or prevent a police
officer from determining compliance with this Section and Chapter, and all
other laws.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to refuse, upon request of a licensee
or police officer, to provide information as to whether he or she is a member,
guest or host member, or to give false, fraudulent or misleading information in
response to such request.
SEC. 5.81. MUNICIPAL DISPENSARY.
      Subd. 1. Establishment. A Municipal Dispensary is hereby established to
be operated within the City for the sale of alcoholic beverages. Such
Dispensary shall be at such place or places as the Council shall determine and
may be either leased or owned by the City. It shall be in the charge of a
person known as the Manager who shall have such assistants as may be necessary.
All employees, including the Manager, shall hold their positions in accordance
with any personnel agreements between the City and its employees.
      Subd. 2. Dispensary Fund. A Liquor Dispensary Fund is hereby created into
which all revenues received from the operation of the Dispensary shall be paid,
and from which all operating expenses shall be paid. Any surplus accumulating
in this Fund may, from time to time, be transferred to another City fund by
resolution of the Council, and expended for any municipal purpose.
      Subd. 3. Liability Insurance. Liquor liability insurance for the
municipal dispensary shall be carried at a minimum amount to comply with
Minnesota Statutes.
SEC. 5.82. CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY.
      Subd. 1. Consumption and Display License Required. It is unlawful for any
business establishment or club, not holding an on-sale liquor license to
directly or indirectly, or on any pretense or by any device, sell, barter, keep
for sale, charge for possession, or otherwise dispose of any liquid for the
purpose of mixing the same with liquor, or permit its members to bring and keep
a personal supply of liquor in lockers assigned to such members, without a
license therefor from the City.
      Subd. 2. Consumption and Display Restrictions and Regulations.
         A. Eligible Licensees.  If the applicant is otherwise eligible,
licenses may be issued only to (1) persons who have not, within five years
prior to application, been convicted of a felony or of violating provisions of
this Chapter or other law relating to the sale or furnishing of alcoholic
beverages; (2) a restaurant; (3) a hotel; (4) a beer licensee; (5) a resort as
defined by statute; or, (6) a club or an unincorporated club otherwise meeting
the definition of a club, provided, that no license may be issued to a club
holding an on-sale liquor license.
         B. Unlawful Act. It is unlawful to sell alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises.
         C. License Expiration. In order to coordinate the expiration of a
consumption and display license with a State permit, all licenses shall expire
on March 31 of each year.
         D. State Permit Required. Licenses shall be issued only to holders of
a consumption and display permit from the Commissioner.
         E. Lockers. A club to which a license is issued under this Section may
allow members to bring and keep a personal supply of liquor in lockers on the
club's premises. All bottles kept on the premises must have attached labels
signed by the member. No minor may keep a supply of liquor on club premises.
Source: Ordinance No. 103
Effective Date: 06-26-2015
SEC. 5.83. CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY - ONE DAY LICENSE.
      Subd. 1. License Required. Any non-profit organization desiring to serve
liquids for the purpose of mixing with liquor and permitting the consumption
and display of liquor in conjunction with a social activity sponsored by it,
shall first obtain a license therefor from the City. It is unlawful for any
such organization to fail to obtain such license.
      Subd. 2. Term. The term of such license shall be one day only.
      Subd. 3. Limitation on Number.  The City shall issue no more than ten
licenses in any calendar year.
      Subd. 4. License Fee. The fee for such one-day license is $25.00.
      Subd. 5. Approval.  In addition to Council approval, such license must be
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 5.84 through 5.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.
SEC. 5.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 6
OTHER BUSINESS REGULATION AND LICENSING
SECTION 6.01. DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings stated:
      1. "Applicant" means any person making an application for a license under
this Chapter.
      2. "Application" means a form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled
in and completed by the applicant as his/her request for a license, furnished
by the City and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of
the issuance of a license for a business.
      3. "Bond" means a corporate surety document in the form and with the
provisions acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
      4. "Business" means any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services,
or transaction that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and
regulated, by the terms and conditions of this Chapter.
      5. "License" means a document issued by the City to an applicant
permitting him/her to carry on and transact a business.
      6. "Licensee" means an applicant who, pursuant to his/her application,
holds a valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the City for
carrying on a business.
      7. "License fee" means the money paid to the City pursuant to an
application and prior to issuance of a license to transact and carry on a
business.
      8. "Person" includes all firms, partnerships, associations, limited
liability companies, corporations and natural persons.
      9. "Sale", "Sell" and "Sold" mean all forms of barter and all manner or
means of furnishing merchandise to persons.
SEC. 6.02. APPLICATIONS.
   All applications shall be made as follows:
      Subd. 1. All applications shall be made at the office of the City
Administrator upon forms that have been furnished by the City for such
purposes.
      Subd. 2. Unless otherwise provided for in this Chapter, all such
applications must be subscribed, sworn to, and include such information as the
Council deems necessary considering the nature of the business for which
license application is made.
      Subd. 3. It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in such
application, or any willful omission to state any information called for on
such application form, shall, upon discovery of such falsehood work an
automatic refusal of license, or if already issued, shall render any license or
permit issued pursuant thereto, void, and of no effect to protect the applicant
from prosecution for violation of this Chapter, or any part hereof.
      Subd. 4. The City Administrator shall, upon receipt of each application
completed in accordance herewith, forthwith investigate the truth of statements
made therein and the moral character and business reputation of each applicant
for license to such extent as he/she deems necessary. For such investigation
the City Administrator may enlist the aid of the Chief of Police. The Council
shall not consider an application before such investigation has been completed.
      Subd. 5. Applications for renewal licenses may be made in such
abbreviated form as the Council may by resolution adopt.
SEC. 6.03. ACTION ON APPLICATION, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE.
      Subd. 1. Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period
of the remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire ensuing
license year. All applications, including proposed license periods, must be
consistent with this Chapter.
      Subd. 2. Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator
shall forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the
Council, payment of the appropriate license fee, and approval of the bond or
insurance as to form and surety or carrier, if required. All licenses shall be
on a calendar year basis unless otherwise specified herein as to particular
businesses. Unless otherwise herein specified, license fees shall be pro-rated
on the basis of 1/12th for each calendar month or part thereof remaining in the
then current license year. Provided, that for licenses where the fee is less
than $100.00 a minimum license fee equal to one-half of the annual license fee
shall be charged. Except as to licenses which are specifically City-wide,
licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein
described.
      Subd. 3. Unemployment Clearance Required. No license shall be granted,
transferred or renewed and shall be revoked if the Commissioner notifies the
City that the licensee owes the State delinquent unemployment insurance
contributions, reimbursements, or benefit overpayments.
      Subd. 4. Transfer. A license shall be transferable between persons upon
consent of the Council and payment of the investigation fee, if any. No license
shall be transferable to a different location without prior consent of the
Council and upon payment of the fee for a duplicate license. It is unlawful to
make any transfer in violation of this Subdivision.
      Subd. 5. Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
      Subd. 6. Refusal and Revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable
cause, refuse to grant any application, or revoke any license. No license shall
be granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Before revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee
and grant such licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the
exact time of hearing shall be stated in the resolution calling for such
hearing. Grounds for revocation may be, but are not limited to, any of the
following: (1) that the licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon
licensed premises; (2) that the licensee had knowledge of such illegal acts but
failed to report the same to police; (3) that the licensee failed or refused to
cooperate fully with police in investigating such alleged illegal acts; or, (4)
that the activities of the licensee created a serious danger to public health,
safety, or welfare.
      Subd. 7. Duplicate License. Duplicates of all original licenses may be
issued by the City Administrator, without action by the Council, upon
licensee's affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee
in an amount adopted by resolution of the Council for issuance of the
duplicate. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked DUPLICATE.
SEC. 6.04. FIXING LICENSE FEES.
   Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses (late fee
penalties, and investigation of applicants) under this Chapter shall be fixed
and determined by the Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced.
Such license fees may, from time-to-time, be amended by the Council by
resolution. A copy of the resolution setting forth currently effective license
fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City Administrator, and open to
inspection during regular business hours. For the purpose of fixing such fees,
the Council may subdivide and categorize licenses under a specific license
requirement, provided, that any such subdivision or categorization shall be
included in the resolution authorized by this Section.
SEC. 6.05. CARRYING OR POSTING.
   All solicitors shall at all times when so engaged, carry their license on
their person. All other licensees shall post their licenses in their place of
business near the licensed activity. Provided, however, that in the case of
machine or other device licensing, the City may provide a sticker for the
current license year which shall be affixed to each machine or device requiring
such sticker. All licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by any
officer or citizen.
SEC. 6.06. PENALTY FOR PROPERTY OWNER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him/her to be used, without a license, for any business for which
a license is required by this Chapter.
SEC. 6.07. RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in
performance of their duties for their principal or employer under such license,
except as to criminal liability therefor, shall be deemed the conduct of the
licensee.
SEC. 6.08. CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place such conditions and restrictions
upon a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
SEC. 6.09. RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be made at least
thirty (30) days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall
contain such information as is required by the City. This time requirement may
be waived by the Council for good and sufficient cause.
SEC. 6.10. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever insurance is required by a Section of this Chapter, after approval
by the Council, but before the license shall issue, the applicant shall file
with the City Administrator a policy or certificate of public liability
insurance showing (1) that the limits are at least as high as required, (2)
that coverage is effective for at least the license term approved, and (3) that
such insurance will not be canceled or terminated without thirty days' written
notice served upon the City Administrator. Cancellation or termination of such
coverage shall be grounds for license revocation.
SEC. 6.11. LICENSE DENIAL AND FIXING RATES - HEARING.
      Subd. 1. Right to Deny. The Council reserves to itself the right to deny
any application for a license to operate any business licensed or regulated
under this Chapter where such business involves service to the public, rates
charged for service, use of public streets or other public property by the
applicant or the public, or the public health, safety and convenience. The
Council may also consider the location of such business in making such
determination. Provided, however, that before making such determination, the
Council shall hold a public hearing thereon pursuant to such notice to
interested parties and the public as it may deem necessary or proper in action
calling for such hearing.
      Subd. 2. Rates. Where, under specific provisions of this Chapter, the
Council has reserved to itself the right to fix or approve fees, rates or
charges of a licensed or regulated business, such rates shall be uniform for
each category or class of service, and no licensee or proprietor of a regulated
business shall claim or demand payment in excess thereof.
      Subd. 3. Hearing. Any applicant or licensee under this Chapter who
challenges denial of a license or rates fixed or approved by the Council shall
have a right to a hearing before the Council upon written request therefor.
Notice of time, place and purpose of such hearing shall be given to such
persons and by such means as the Council may determine in calling the hearing.
SEC. 6.12. WORKER'S COMPENSATION.
   No license to operate a business shall be issued by the City until the
applicant presents acceptable evidence of compliance with the worker's
compensation insurance coverage requirement of Minnesota Statutes by providing
the name of the insurance company, the policy number, and dates of coverage, or
the permit to self-insure.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 6.13 through 6.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 6.20. TAXICABS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         A. "Taxicab" means any passenger conveyance being driven, on call or
traversing a scheduled or unscheduled route for public use or hire upon payment
of a fare or at regular fare rates, but not including such as are designed for
mass transportation as buses, trains or streetcars.
         B. "Operator" means a licensee owning or otherwise having control of
one or more taxicabs.
         C. "Driver" means the person driving and having physical control over
a taxicab whether he/she be the licensee or in the employ of the licensed
operator.
      Subd. 2. License Required. It is unlawful for any person to drive or
operate a taxicab without a license therefor from the City.
      Subd. 3. License Issuance and Display, and Vehicle Marking. All licenses
shall be issued for specific conveyances, except as otherwise herein provided.
License tags, including number and year for which issued, shall be plainly
visible from the front of the conveyance. Both sides of every licensed taxicab,
when in use, shall be plainly and permanently marked as such with a painted
sign or appurtenances showing the full or abbreviated name of the licensed
operator.
      Subd. 4. Insurance Required. Before a taxicab license is issued by the
Council, and at all times effective during such licensed period, the licensee
shall have and maintain public liability and bodily injury insurance in the
amount of $100,000.00 for any one person and $300,000.00 for two or more
persons injured in any one accident, as well as $50,000.00 property damage
insurance.
      Subd. 5. Rates. Each applicant shall file with the City Administrator,
before a taxicab license is issued or renewed, a schedule of proposed maximum
rates to be charged by him/her during the licensed period for which the
application is made. The schedule of proposed maximum rates, or a compromise
schedule thereof, shall be approved by the Council before granting the license.
Such schedule shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the taxicab in full
view of passengers riding therein. Nothing herein shall prevent a taxicab
licensee from petitioning the Council for review of such rates during the
licensed period, and the Council may likewise consider such petition and make
new rates effective at any time. No taxicab licensee shall charge rates in
excess of maximum rates approved by the Council.
      Subd. 6. Mechanical Condition. Before issuing a taxicab license, the
applicant shall present to the Council a certificate signed by a competent and
experienced mechanic showing that the taxicab conveyance is in good mechanical
condition, that it is thoroughly safe for transportation of passengers and that
it is in neat and clean condition. Such similar certificate may be required
from time to time during the licensed period. In lieu of such certificate the
Council may accept the report of the Chief of Police relative thereto.
SEC. 6.21. TOBACCO.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Tobacco or Tobacco Products" shall have the meanings given to them
in Section 609.685 of the Minnesota Statutes and as the same may from time to
time be amended.
         2. "Tobacco Related Devices" means any tobacco product as well as a
pipe, rolling papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be
used in a manner which enables the chewing, sniffing, or smoking of tobacco or
tobacco products.
         3. "Self-Service Merchandising" means open displays of tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices in any manner where any person
shall have access to the tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices,
without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's
employee. The assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device between the
customer and the licensee or employee. Self-service merchandising shall not
include vending machines.
         4. "Vending Machine" means any mechanical, electric or electronic, or
other type of device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment
directly into the machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco related device.
         5. "Individually Packaged" means the practice of selling any tobacco
or tobacco product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco
and tobacco products shall include, but are not limited to, single cigarette
packs, single bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or
other packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging
containing more than a single pack or other containers as described in this
Subdivision shall not be considered individually packaged.
         6. "Loosies" means the common term used to refer to a single or
individually packed cigarette.
         7. "Minor" means any natural person who has not yet reached the age of
eighteen (18) years.
         8. "Retail Establishment" means any place of business where tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the
general public. Retail establishments shall include, but not be limited to,
grocery stores, convenience stores, and restaurants.
         9. "Movable Place of Business" refers to any form of business operated
out of a truck, van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable
shelter and not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of
structure authorized for sales transactions.
         10. "Sale" means any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or
other consideration.
         11. "Compliance Checks" means the system the City uses to investigate
and ensure that those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco
related devices are following and complying with the requirements of this
Section. Compliance checks shall involve the use of minors as authorized by
this Section. Compliance checks shall also mean the use of minors who attempt
to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices for
educational, research and training purposes as authorized by State and Federal
laws. Compliance checks may also be conducted by other units of government for
the purpose of enforcing appropriate Federal, State, or local laws and
regulations relating to tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices.
      Subd. 2. License. It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell
any tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related device without first having
obtained a license to do so from the City.
      Subd. 3. Fees. No license shall be issued under this Section until the
appropriate license fee shall be paid in full.
      Subd. 4. Basis for Denial of License. The following shall be grounds for
denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this Section; however,
except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any particular
ground for denial does not mean that the City must deny the license. If a
license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be revoked upon
the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under this
Section.
         A. The applicant is under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         B. The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a Federal, State or local law or City Code provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco related devices.
         C. The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding twelve months of the
date of application.
         D. The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
         E. The applicant is prohibited by Federal, State, or local law, City
Code provision or other regulation from holding such a license.
      Subd. 5. Prohibited Sales. It is a violation of this Section for any
person to sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device:
         A. To any person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
         B. By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this Section.
         C. By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need
to make verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco related product, or tobacco related
device and whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the licensee or the licensee's
employee and the customer.
         D. By means of loosies as defined herein.
         E. Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
         F. By any other means, or to any other person, or in any other manner
or form prohibited by Federal, State or other local law, City Code provision,
or other regulations.
      Subd. 6. Vending Machines. It is unlawful for any person licensed under
this Section to allow the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related
devices by the means of a vending machine unless minors are at all times
prohibited from entering the licensed establishment.
      Subd. 7. Self-Service Sales. It is unlawful for a licensee under this
Section to allow the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related
devices by any means whereby the customer may have access to such items without
having to request the item from the licensee or the licensee's employee and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or
the tobacco related device between the licensee or his or her clerk and the
customer. All tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices shall
either be stored behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to
customers or in a case or other storage unit not left open and accessible to
the general public. Licensees which prohibit individuals less than 18 years of
age from entering the premises and which derive at least 90 percent of their
revenue from tobacco and tobacco-related products are exempt from this
Subdivision.
      Subd. 8. Responsibility. All licensees under this Section shall be
responsible for the actions of their employees in regard to the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices on the licensed premise,
and the sale of such an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the
license holder. Nothing in this Section shall be construed as prohibiting the
City from also subjecting the clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under
this Section, State or Federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
      Subd. 9. Compliance Checks and Inspections. All licensed premises shall
be open to inspection by the City police or other authorized City official
during regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once per year,
the City shall conduct compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent
of their parents or guardians, minors over the age of fifteen (15) years but
less than eighteen (18) years to enter the licensed premise to attempt to
purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices. Minors used for
the purpose of compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices when such items are
obtained as part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification or theatrical makeup
misrepresenting the minor's age. All minors lawfully engaged in a compliance
check shall answer all questions about the minor's age asked by the licensee
and shall produce any identification for which he or she is asked. The minor
shall be accompanied by the City police or an authorized City official to the
location of the compliance check. Nothing in this Section shall prohibit
compliance checks authorized by State or Federal laws for educational,
research, or training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular
State or Federal law.
      Subd. 10. Violations.
         A. Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his
or her right to be heard on the accusation.
         B. Hearings. If a person accused of violating this Section so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.
         C. Hearing Officer. The Council or a person or persons designated by
the Council shall serve as the hearing officer.
         D. Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of
this Section did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons
for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under this Section, shall
be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused
violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or
finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such findings shall be recorded and
a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
         E. Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall
be filed in the District Court for the City in which the alleged violation
occurred.
         F. Misdemeanor Prosecution.  Nothing in this Section shall prohibit
the City from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this Section. If the City elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
         G. Continued Violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
      Subd. 11. Penalties.
         A. Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this Section, or
whose employee shall have violated this Section, shall be charged an
administrative fine of $75 for a first violation of this Section; $200 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a twenty-four month period;
and $250 for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a
twenty-four month period. In addition, after the third offense, the license
shall be suspended for not less than seven days.
         B. Other Individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
herein, found to be in violation of this Section shall be charged an
administrative fee of $50.
         C. Misdemeanor.  Nothing in this Section shall prohibit the City from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this Section.
Source: Ordinance No. 62
Effective Date: 08-25-2011
SEC. 6.22. SOLICITORS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         A. "Solicitor" means any person making the solicitation, including
such common terms as "peddler", "transient merchant" and "canvasser".
         B. "Solicitee" means the person solicited.
         C. "Goods" means any tangible thing of value including money if the
selling price exceeds the face value thereof. The term includes such chattels
as are furnished or used at the time of sale or subsequently in the
modernization, rehabilitation, repair, alteration, improvement or construction
of real property so as to become a part thereof whether or not severable
therefrom.
         D. "Services" means work, labor, or services of any kind.
         E. "Established place" means real estate in the City owned, leased on
a month-to-month or term-certain longer than thirty (30) days. The term
includes a booth, compartment, or area leased or assigned during and for the
length of an event or occasion.
         F. "Business solicitation" means an attempt by a solicitor, engaging
in transactions of the same kind, to sell or distribute for a consideration any
goods or services primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, when
either the solicitor or person acting for him/her contacts the solicitee by
telephone or in person, other than at the established place of business of
solicitor, except: (1) an attempted solicitation in which the solicitee
personally knows the identity of the solicitor, the name of the business firm
or organization he/she represents, and the identity or kinds of goods, services
or things of value offered; or, (2) an attempted solicitation in which the
solicitee has first initiated the contact with the solicitor; or, (3) an
attempted solicitation of a newspaper subscription in which the solicitor is a
minor child engaged in both the delivery and sale of the newspaper; or, (4) an
attempted solicitation for the sale of products of a farm or garden occupied or
cultivated by the solicitor, when facts of such occupancy or cultivation are
proven by the solicitor.
         G. "Contribution solicitation" means an attempt by a solicitor to
obtain money from a solicitee for any cause or purpose, when either the
solicitor or person acting for him/her contacts the solicitee by telephone or
in person other than at the established place of meeting, business, service, or
activity of the organization represented by the solicitor, except: (1) an
attempted solicitation in which the solicitee personally knows the identity of
the solicitor, the name of the organization he/she represents, and the identity
of the services performed or offered by the organization, or, (2) an attempted
solicitation in which the solicitee has first initiated the contact with the
solicitor or the organization represented by him/her.
      Subd. 2. Prohibited Solicitation Practices.
         A. It is unlawful for any solicitor to engage in solicitation for any
unlawful business or organizational purpose or activity.
         B. It is unlawful for any solicitor to practice harassment, nuisance,
theft, deceit, or menacing, troublesome or otherwise unlawful activities during
the course of solicitation.
         C. It is unlawful for any solicitor to enter, or attempt to gain
entrance, to residential premises displaying at such entrance a sign at least
3-3/4 inches long and 3-3/4 inches high with the words "Peddlers and Solicitors
Prohibited" or "Solicitors Prohibited" in type not smaller than 48 point.
         D. It is unlawful for any solicitor to refuse to leave business
premises when requested by the owner, lessee, or person in charge thereof.
         E. It is unlawful for any person to engage in contribution
solicitation without completion of licensing or registration as herein
provided.
         F. It is unlawful for any person to engage in business solicitation
without a license as herein provided.
         G. It is unlawful for any solicitor except for an authorized
manufacturer's representative to offer for sale any of the following items:
            1. Infant formula or other food intended primarily for consumption
by a child under the age of two years;
            2. Over-the-counter drugs, medical devices and cosmetics.
         H. It is unlawful for any solicitor to engage in solicitation of a
residence between the hours of 8:00 P.M. and 8:00 A.M.
      Subd. 3. Application. Applications for licensing or registration shall
contain the name and address of the solicitor, the name and address of the
business or organization for which solicitations are sought and such other
information as may reasonably be required by the Council as a condition to
registration or licensing or to permit investigation into the applicant's
background and past solicitation practices. No application for a business
solicitor's license shall be complete unless it is accompanied by a valid and
current license issued by the County in which such solicitor proposes to engage
in solicitation.
SEC. 6.23. GAS FITTERS.
      Subd. 1. License Required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of installing, maintaining, or repairing gas piping, equipment or
appliances without a license therefor from the City.
      Subd. 2. License Regulations.
         A. Application for a gas fitter's license shall be accompanied by a
statement of experience and qualifications.
         B. Such application shall be immediately forwarded to the Natural Gas
Inspection Department which shall investigate such application and either
approve or disapprove such application. If such application is approved, the
City Administrator shall issue a license to the applicant. If such application
is disapproved, the license shall be denied.
         C. All licensees shall, within seven (7) days after receipt of the
license, file and thereafter keep on file in the office of the City
Administrator a surety bond running to the City in the sum of $10,000.00,
conditioned that such licensee shall perform all work in connection with the
installation, maintenance and repair of gas piping, equipment and appliances in
a skillful and workmanlike manner, using only suitable and proper materials,
equipment and appliances and shall comply with all of the provisions of the
City Code ; provided, however, that the City or its employees shall be
specifically exempt from the requirements of posting bond.
         D. In addition to furnishing of a surety bond, each applicant shall
file with the City Administrator proof of public liability insurance in an
amount of not less than $100,000.00 for each person, $300,000.00 for each
accident, and $50,000.00 property damage and certificate of insurance showing
the carrying of workman's compensation.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 6.24 through 6.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 6.30. KENNELS.
      Subd. 1. Defined. For the purpose of this Section, the term "kennel"
means any place, building, tract of land, abode or vehicle, wherein or whereon
three or more dogs or cats, or combination, over ninety (90) days of age, are
kept, kept for sale, or boarded.
      Subd. 2. License Required. It is unlawful for any person to operate or
maintain a kennel without a license therefor from the City.
      Subd. 3. License Fee. The annual fee for a kennel license is $10.00.
      Subd. 4. Exception. Hospitals and clinics operated by licensed
veterinarians exclusively for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from
the provisions of this Section.
      Subd. 5. Zoning. No license shall be issued to a person for operation of
a kennel in a zoning district where such operation is not permitted or
otherwise allowed under the Zoning Chapter of the City Code.
SEC. 6.31. ADULT ORIENTED SERVICES.
      Subd. 1. Statement of Policy. The Council deems it necessary to provide
for the special and express regulation of businesses or commercial enterprises
which operate as massage businesses, saunas, tatoo businesses, end similar
adult oriented services in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare and to guard against the inception and transmission of disease. The
Council further finds that commercial enterprises such as the type described
above, and all other similar establishments whose services include sessions
offered to adults, conducted in private by members of the same or the opposite
sex, and employing personnel with no specialized training, are susceptible to
operation in a manner contravening, subverting or endangering the morals of the
community by being the site of acts of prostitution, illicit sex and occasions
of violent crimes, thus requiring close inspection and regulation. The Council
also finds that control and regulation of commercial establishments of these
types, in view of the abuses often perpetrated, require intensive efforts by
the Police Department, and other Departments of the City. As a consequence, the
concentrated use of the City services in such control detracts from and reduces
the level of service available to the rest of the community and thereby
diminishes the ability of the City to promote the general health, welfare,
morals and safety at the community. In consideration for the necessity on the
part of the City to provide numerous services to all segments of the community,
without a concentration of public services in one area working to the detriment
of the members of the general public, it is hereby decided that the number of
licenses issued pursuant to this Section for massage businesses, saunas, tatoo
businesses, or for similar adult oriented services which may be authorized at
any one time may be regulated, and the Council may determine the number of
authorized licenses by resolution.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Massage therapy" means rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping or
rolling of the body of another with the hands or objects for the exclusive
purpose of physical fitness, relaxation, beautification and for no other
purpose.
         2. "Massage business" means any establishment or place providing to
the public at large massage services, other than a hospital, sanatorium, rest
home, nursing home, boarding home, or other institution for the hospitalization
or care of human beings duly licensed under the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes.
         3. "Massage services" means a business offering or providing massages
to others where a fee is charged and whether or not the massage services are
rendered at the licensed location.
         4. "Sauna" means any public facility used for the purpose of bathing,
reducing or relaxing, utilizing steam or heat as a cleaning, reducing or
relaxing agent.
         5. "Tatoo business" means any person, establishment or business
advertising, offering, selling, trading or bartering the services of itself,
its employees or agents as tatoo artists or tatoo applicants whether or not
other goods or services are simultaneously advertised, offered, sold, traded or
bartered and regardless or whether said goods or services are also required to
be licensed.
         6. "Similar adult oriented services" is meant to include all other
services which fall within the definitions of Items 1 through 5 of this Section
but are operated under different names.
      Subd. 3. License Required.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
operating a massage business or massage establishment, sauna, or tatoo business
or any other similar adult oriented service either exclusively or in connection
with any other business enterprise or hold himself or herself out as being a
masseur or masseuse or engaged in or offering his or her services as a tatoo
artist without a license therefor from the City.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to hold out any establishment as
providing services as a massage business, sauna, tatoo business, or similar
adult oriented service unless such establishment is licensed as provided in
this Section. Whenever any establishment ceases to be licensed as a massage
business, sauna, tatoo business or similar adult oriented service, whether
through the suspension, cancellation, revocation, non-renewal or lapse of its
license, its owners shall immediately remove from public view any sign or
display which identifies the establishment as being a massage business, sauna,
or tatoo business or similar adult oriented service.
      Subd. 4. Contents of Application for License.
         A. Application for a license shall be made only on the forms provided
by the City Administrator. Four complete copies of the application must be
submitted to the City Administrator's office containing the addresses and legal
description of the property to be used, the name, address and telephone number
of two persons who shall be residents of Lake County who may be called upon to
attest to the applicant's, manager's or operator's character; whether the
applicant, manager or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense
and, if so, complete and accurate information as to the time, place and nature
of such crime or offense, including the disposition thereof; the names and
addresses of all creditors of the applicant, owner, manager or operator
regarding credit which has been extended for the purposes of constructing,
equipping, maintaining, operating, furnishing or acquiring the premises,
personal effects, equipment or anything incidental to the establishment,
maintenance and operation of a massage business, sauna, or tatoo business or a
similar adult oriented service.
         B. If the application is made on behalf of a joint business venture,
partnership or any legally constituted business association other than a
corporation, it shall submit, along with its application, accurate and complete
business records showing the names and addresses of all partners, officers and
owners and, in the case of a corporation, the names and addresses of all
officers, general managers and members of the Board of Directors.
         C. If the application is made on behalf of a joint business venture,
partnership, legally constituted business association or corporation, the
applicant shall also submit the names and addresses of any and all creditors
who have extended credit for the acquisition, maintenance, operation or
furnishing of the establishment.
         D. All applicants shall furnish to the City, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or in the furnishings thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage, credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition for maintenance of the
enterprise offering services as a massage business, sauna, tatoo business or a
similar adult oriented service.
         E. The application shall also contain a drawing showing the
construction end any alteration or additions to the premises and specifically
showing the layout, design and arrangement of the bathing and restroom
facilities and the size and type of equipment and facilities to be used.
         F. All applicants shall state any other licenses for which they have
applied within the last ten years and any denial, suspension or revocation of a
license along with an explanation of any such denial, suspension or revocation.
      Subd. 5. License Fee, License Investigation and License Year. The annual
fee shall be set by resolution of the Council and may be amended from time to
time. In the event that the license is denied upon application, the license fee
shall be refunded. In the event that the license once issued is revoked,
canceled or surrendered, no part of the annual license fee shall be returned to
the applicant unless by express action of the Council. A separate license shall
be obtained each year for each place of business. All licenses granted herein
are non-transferable.
      Subd. 6. Conditions Governing Issuance of a License.
         A. Licenses shall be issued only if the applicant or all of its
owners, managers, employees, agents or interested parties are persons of good
moral character end repute.
         B. Licenses shall be issued only if the applicant and all of its
owners, managers, agents, employees or interested parties are free of
convictions for offenses which involve moral turpitude or which relate directly
to such person's ability, capacity or fitness to perform the duties and
discharge the responsibilities of the licensed activity.
         C. Licenses shall be issued only to applicants who have not, within
three years prior to the date of application, had a license of this type
revoked or suspended in or by any community or political entity and whose
owners, managers, or any interested parties have not been similarly revoked or
suspended.
         D. Licenses shall be issued only to applicants who have answered fully
and truthfully all of the information requested in the application, who have
paid the full license fee and fee for investigation and have cooperated fully
and truthfully with the City in the review of the application.
         E. If the applicant is a natural person, a license shall be granted
only if such person is 18 years of age or older.
         F. Licenses may only be granted when the premises involved are in
complete conformity with the Zoning Chapter of the City Code.
         G. Licenses shall be granted only to establishments which meet the
safety, sanitary and building code requirements of the City.
         H. A license shall not be granted if granting the license (1) would be
inconsistent with the comprehensive development plans of the City, or (2) would
otherwise have a detrimental effect upon other property or properties in the
vicinity.
      Subd. 7. Granting or Denial of Licenses. License applications shall be
reviewed by the Police Department and such other departments as the City
Administrator shall deem necessary. The review of license applications shall
include an inspection of the premises covered by the application to determine
whether the premises conform to all applicable code requirements. Licenses
shall be issued upon the approval of the Council.
      Subd. 8. Masseurs and Masseuses Employed in the Business.
         A. No such business shall employ or use any person as a masseur or
masseuse unless such person is licensed as such with the City.
         B. Such license shall be issued by the City Administrator after
approval by the Council to a person eighteen (18) years of age or over and of
good moral character.
         C. An application for such license shall be filed with the City
Administrator, which application shall state the name, address, age and other
pertinent information as required by the Chief of Police. Upon receipt of the
application, the Chief of Police shall cause all necessary investigations to be
made so that the Council may grant or deny the license. Each applicant not
previously licensed by the City must also have completed a course of study in
massage of not less than forty (40) hours from a recognized school where the
theory, method, profession, and work of massage is taught. Applicant shall
submit a diploma, certificate, or other written proof of educational attainment
with the application, including the name and address of the school.
         D. The annual fee for such license shall be set by resolution of the
Council and amended from time to time. This fee shall not be prorated.
      Subd. 9. Restrictions and Regulations.
         A. The licensee and any persons in his or her employ or agents or
officers thereof and any and all persons with an interest in said business
shall comply with all applicable , regulations and laws of the State of
Minnesota and the United States and all applicable City Code provisions.
         B. If the licensee is a partnership or corporation, the applicant
shall designate a person to be manager and be responsible br the business and
employees. Such person shall remain responsible for the conduct of the business
and employees until another suitable person has been designated in writing by
the licensee. The licensee shall promptly notify the Police Department in
writing of any such change, indicating the name, address and telephone number
of the new manager and the effective data of such change.
         C. Every licensee shall allow an examination and inspection of every
part of the premises by any police, fire or health authority of the City during
normal business hours four times each year. Refusal to allow such inspection or
to answer a request of the City shall be grounds for suspension or revocation
of all licenses.
         D. The licensed premises shall not be open for business nor shall
patrons be permitted on the premises between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00
a.m. on any day except in an emergency.
         E. Upon demand of any police officer, any person employed in any
licensed premises shall identify himself by giving his true legal name and his
correct address.
         F. It is unlawful for any person under 15 years of age to be employed
in an establishment requiring a license under the provisions of this Section.
         G. The licensee shall furnish the Police Department with a list of
current employees, indicating their names and addresses end designating the
duties of the employees within the licensed premises. The licensee shall
promptly notify the Police Department of any additions or deletions in the list
of employees or changes in their job descriptions or duties.
         H. The licensed premises must be kept and maintained in a sanitary
condition defined as being free from the vegetative cells of pathogenic micro-
organisms and all equipment, needles, personal property, tables, beds, towels,
clothing and the like used in or for the licensed premises shall also be
maintained in a sanitary condition as defined herein.
         I. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, any person practicing
massage or applying tatoos within the City shall initially advise the City of
his or her address and telephone number and shall further advise the City of
any changes in address or telephone number within 30 days of such change.
         J. Any masseur or masseuse practicing massage shall remain fully
clothed in a non-transparent uniform or clothing at all times. At all times
during the operation of any rap business, conversation business, adult
encounter group, adult sensitivity group, model service, escort service,
dancing service, hostess service or similar adult oriented service, both
employees and customers must be and remain fully clothed in non-transparent
clothing.
      Subd. 10. Construction and Maintenance Requirements.
         A. Each licensed premises shall have a separate restroom.
         B. The facility and all equipment, personal property, beds, towels,
clothing and the like used in the massage business shall be of a sanitary
design and kept in a sanitary condition.
         C. All restrooms shall be provided with ventilation meeting thp
ventilation requirements of the building code, a hand washing sink equipped
with hot and cold running water under pressure, sanitary towels and a soap
dispenser.
         D. All rooms in the licensed premises including, but not limited to,
massage rooms, sauna rooms, restrooms, bathrooms, rap rooms, conversation
rooms, modeling rooms, dancing rooms, janitor's closets, hallways and reception
areas shall be illuminated with not less than 30 foot candles of illumination.
         E. Floors, walls and equipment in massage rooms, sauna rooms,
restrooms, bathrooms, rap rooms, conversation rooms, modeling rooms and dancing
rooms must be kept in a state of good repair and sanitary at all times. Linen
and other materials shall be stored at least 12 inches off the floor. Clean
towels, wash cloths and linens must be available for each customer utilizing
the facilities.
         F. Such establishments shall provide adequate refuse receptacles which
shall be emptied as required.
      Subd. 11. Health and Disease Control. It is unlawful for any person while
afflicted with any disease in a communicable foot or while a carrier of such
disease or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds, sores, or any acute
respiratory infection to work in or use the services of any licensed premises
and it is also unlawful for any person known or suspected of being afflicted
with any such disease or condition to be employed or permitted in such area or
capacity.
      Subd. 12. Advertising. It is unlawful for any person to publish, or
distribute, or cause to be published or distributed, any advertising matter or
business identification card that states or depicts any portion of the human
body which would reasonably suggest to prospective patrons that any services
are available other than massage as defined in this Section.
      Subd. 13. Alcoholic Beverages Upon Premises. It is unlawful for any
massage business to permit or allow any alcoholic beverages to be kept, sold,
dispensed, or consumed upon the premises.
      Subd. 14. Masseuses and Masseurs Not to Live on Licensed Premises. No
license shall be granted to any masseuse or masseur who does not maintain
separate living quarters away from the rooms where messages are performed.
      Subd. 15. Revocation, Suspension or Non-Renewal of License.
         A. The license may be revoked, suspended, or not renewed by the
Council upon recommendation of the Director Of Public Safety by showing that
the license, its owners, managers, employees, agents or any other interested
parties have engaged in any of the following conduct:
            1. Fraud, deception or misrepresentation in connection with the
securing of the license.
            2. Habitual drunkenness or intemperance in the use of drugs
including, but not limited to, the use of drugs defined in Minnesota Statues,
Section 618.01, barbiturates, hallucinogenic drugs, amphetamines, benzedrine,
dexedrine or other sedatives, depressants, stimulants or tranquilizers.
            3. Engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude or permitting or
allowing others within their employ or agency to engage in conduct involving
moral turpitude or failing to prevent agents, officers, or employees in
engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude.
            4. Failure to fully comply with any requirements of the City Code
regarding sanitary and safety conditions, zoning requirements or building code
requirements, the violation of which involves moral turpitude, or failure to
comply fully with any requirements of this Section.
            5. The operation shall be found to have violated the Subdivision of
the Section relating to alcohol on premises.
            6. The operation shall be found to be in violation of the
Subdivision of this Section relating to residence requirement.
            7. The operation shall be found to be in violation of the insurance
requirement of this Section.
            8. Conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude by any Court
of competent jurisdiction.
            9. Operation of the establishment without a valid license or during
periods in which the license has been suspended or revoked.
            10. Engaging in any conduct which would constitute grounds for
refusal to issue a license herein.
         B. The licensee may appeal such suspension, revocation or non-renewal
to the Council. The Council shall consider the appeal at the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting or a special Council meeting called on or after 10
days from service of the notice of appeal to the City Administrator, but under
no circumstances more than 20 days from service of the notice or appeal. At the
conclusion of the hearing, the Council may order:
            1. That the revocation, suspension or non-renewal be affirmed.
            2. That the revocation, suspension or non-renewal be lifted and
that the license be returned to the license holder.
            3. The Council may base either suspension or issuance of the
certificate upon any additional terms, conditions and stipulations which it
may, in its sole discretion, impose.
      Subd. 16. Massage Distinguished. The practice of massage is hereby
declared to be distinct from the practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy,
chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry and persons duly licensed in this
State to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy
or podiatry, nurses who work solely under the direction of any such persons,
athletic directors and trainers are hereby expressly excluded from the
provisions of this Section. Beauty culturists and barbers who do not give, or
hold themselves out to give, massage treatments, as defined herein, other than
is customarily given in such shops or places of business, for the purpose of
beautification only shall be exempt from the provisions of this Section.
      Subd. 17. Penalties. Any club, person or corporation who violates any
provision of this Section shall he guilty of a misdemeanor.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 6.32 through 6.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 6.40. PAWNBROKERS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Pawnbroker" means a person engaged in whole or in part in the
business of lending money on the security of pledged goods left in pawn, or in
the business of purchasing tangible personal property to be left in pawn on the
condition that it may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a fixed
price within a fixed period of time.
         2. "Pawnshop" means the location at which or premises in which a
pawnbroker regularly conducts business.
         3. "Pawn Transaction" means any loan on the security of pledged goods
or any purchase of pledged goods on the condition that the pledged goods are
left with the pawnbroker and may be redeemed or repurchased by the seller for a
fixed price within a fixed period of time.
         4. "Pledged Goods" means tangible personal property other than a chose
in action, securities, bank drafts, or printed evidence of indebtedness, that
are purchased by, deposited with, or otherwise actually delivered into the
possession of a pawnbroker in connection with a pawn transaction.
      Subd. 2. License Required.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the business as a
pawnbroker unless the person has a valid license authorizing engagement in the
business. Any pawn transaction made without benefit of a license is void.
         B. A separate license is required for each place of business. The City
may issue more than one license to a person if that person complies with this
Section for each license.
         C. No expiration, revocation, suspension, or surrender of any license
shall impair or affect the obligation of any pre-existing lawful contract
between the licensee and any pledgor.
         D. The Chief of Police shall be notified by the City of any licensee
whose license has expired or been surrendered, suspended, or revoked as
provided by this Section.
      Subd. 3. Persons Disqualified. No license under this Section may be
issued or renewed to a person who (a) is a minor; (b) has been convicted of any
crime related to the occupation of pawnbroker; or (c) is not of good moral
character or repute.
      Subd. 4. Unemployment Clearance Required. No license shall be granted,
transferred, or renewed and shall be revoked if the Commissioner notifies the
City that the licensee owes the State delinquent unemployment insurance
contributions, reimbursements, or benefit overpayments.
      Subd. 5. Change in Ownership. Any change, directly or beneficially, in
the ownership of any licensed pawnshop shall require the application for a new
license and the new owner must satisfy all current eligibility requirements.
      Subd. 6. Pawn Tickets.
         A. Entries of Pawn Tickets. At the time of making the pawn or purchase
transaction, the pawnbroker shall immediately and legibly record in English the
following information by using ink or other indelible medium on forms or in a
computerized record approved by the City:
            1. A complete and accurate description of the property, including
model and serial number if indicated on the property;
            2. The full name, residence address, residence telephone number,
and date of birth of the pledgor or seller;
            3. The date and time of pawn or purchase transaction;
            4. The identification number and State of issue from one of the
following forms of identification of the seller or pledgor: current valid
Minnesota driver's license; current valid Minnesota identification card; or
current valid photo identification card issued by another State or Province of
Canada;
            5. Description of the pledgor including approximate height, sex,
and race;
            6. Amount advanced or paid;
            7. The maturity date of the pawn transaction and the amount due;
and
            8. The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees
and charges.
         B. Printed Pawn Ticket. The following shall be printed on all pawn
tickets:
            1. The statement that "Any personal property pledged to a
pawnbroker within this State is subject to sale or disposal when there has been
no payment made on the account for a period of not less than 60 days past the
date of the pawn transaction, renewal, or extension; no further notice is
necessary. There is no obligation for the pledgor to redeem pledged goods.";
            2. The statement that "The pledgor of this item attests that it is
not stolen, it has no liens or encumbrances against it, and the pledgor has the
right to sell or pawn the item.";
            3. The statement that "This item is redeemable only by the pledgor
to whom the receipt was issued, or any person identified in a written and
notarized authorization to redeem the property identified in the receipt, or a
person identified in writing by the pledgor at the time of the initial
transaction and signed by the pledgor. Written authorization for release of
property to persons other than the original pledgor must be maintained along
with the original transaction record; and
            4. A blank line for the pledgor's signature.
      Subd. 7. Records; Retention.
         A. The pledgor or seller shall sign a pawn ticket and receive an exact
copy of the pawn ticket.
         B. The pawnbroker shall maintain on the premises a record of all
transactions of pledged or purchased goods for a period of three years. These
records shall be a correct copy of the entries made of the pawn transactions. A
pawnbroker shall upon request provide to the appropriate law enforcement agency
a complete record of pawn items.
      Subd. 8. Effect of Non-Redemption.
         A. A pledgor shall have no obligation to redeem pledged goods or make
any payment on a pawn transaction. Pledged goods not redeemed within at least
60 days of the date of the pawn transaction, renewal, or extension shall
automatically be forfeited to the pawnbroker, and qualified right, title, and
interest in and to the goods shall automatically vest in the pawnbroker.
         B. The pawnbroker's right, title, and interest in the pledged goods
under this Subdivision is qualified only by the pledgor's right, while the
pledged goods remain in possession of the pawnbroker and not sold to a third
party, to redeem the goods by paying the loan plus fees and/or interest accrued
up the date of redemption.
         C. A pawn transaction that involves holding only the title to property
is subject to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 168A or 336.
      Subd. 9. Permitted Charges.
         A. A pawnbroker may contract for and receive a pawnshop charge not to
exceed 3% per month of the principal amount advanced in the pawn transaction
plus a reasonable fee for storage and services. A fee for storage and services
may not exceed $20.00 if the property is not in the possession of the
pawnbroker.
         B. The pawnshop charge allowed under this Subdivision shall be deemed
earned, due, and owing as of the date of the pawn transaction and a like sum
shall be deemed earned, due, and owing on the same day of the succeeding month.
However, if full payment is made more than two weeks before the next succeeding
date the pawnbroker shall remit one-half of the pawnshop charge for that month
to the pledgor.
         C. Interest shall not be deducted in advance, nor shall any loan be
divided or split so as to yield greater interest or fees than would be
permitted upon a single, consolidated loan or for otherwise evading any
provisions of this Section.
         D. Any interest, charge, or fees contracted for or received, directly
or indirectly, in excess of the amount permitted under this Section, shall be
uncollectible and the pawn transaction shall be void.
         E. A schedule of charges permitted by this Section shall be posted on
the pawnshop premises in a place clearly visible to the general public.
      Subd. 10. Records; Prohibitions. A pawnbroker and any clerk, agent, or
employee of a pawnbroker shall not:
         A. Make any false entry in the records of pawn transactions;
         B. Falsify, obliterate, destroy, or remove from the place of business
the records, books, or accounts relating to the licensee's pawn transactions;
         C. Refuse to allow the appropriate law enforcement agency, the
Attorney General, or any other duly authorized State or Federal law enforcement
officer to inspect the pawn records or any pawn goods in the person's
possession during the ordinary hours of business or other times acceptable to
both parties;
         D. Fail to maintain a record of each pawn transaction for three years;
         E. Accept a pledge or purchase property from a person under the age of
18 years;
         F. Make any agreement requiring the personal liability of a pledgor or
seller, or waiving any provision of this Section, or providing for a maturity
date less than one month after the date of the pawn transaction;
         G. Fail to return pledged goods to a pledgor or seller, or provide
compensation as set forth in State Statutes, upon payment of the full amount
due the pawnbroker unless either the date of redemption is more than 60 days
past the date of the pawn transaction, renewal, or extension and the pawnbroker
has sold the pledged goods pursuant to State Statutes, or the pledged goods
have been taken into custody by a Court or a law enforcement officer or agency;
         H. Sell or lease, or agree to sell or lease, pledged or purchased
goods back to the pledgor or seller in the same, or a related, transaction;
         I. Sell or otherwise charge for insurance in connection with a pawn
transaction; or
         J. Remove pledged goods from the pawnshop premises or other storage
place approved by the City at any time before unredeemed, pledged goods are
sold pursuant to Statute.
      Subd. 11. Redemption; Risk of Loss. Any person to whom the receipt for
pledged goods was issued, or any person identified in a written and notarized
authorization to redeem the pledged goods identified in the receipt, or any
person identified in writing by the pledgor at the time of the initial
transaction and signed by the pledgor shall be entitled to redeem or repurchase
the pledged goods described on the ticket. In the event the goods are lost or
damaged while in possession of the pawnbroker, the pawnbroker shall compensate
the pledgor, in cash or replacement goods acceptable to the pledgor, for the
fair market value of the lost of damaged goods. Proof of compensation shall be
a defense to any prosecution or civil action.
      Subd. 12. Motor Vehicle Title Pawn Transactions; Special Provisions.
         A. In addition to the other requirements of this Section, a pawnbroker
who holds a title to a motor vehicle as part of a pawn transaction shall:
            1. Be licensed as a used motor vehicle dealer under Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 168, and post such license on the pawnshop premises;
            2. Verify that there are no liens or encumbrances against the motor
vehicle with the Department of Public Safety; and
            3. Verify that the pledgor has automobile insurance on the motor
vehicle as required by law.
         B. A pawnbroker may not sell a motor vehicle covered by a pawn
transaction until 90 days after recovery of the motor vehicle.
      Subd. 13. Transition. Pawnbrokers that are already in business on the
effective date of this Section, must apply for a license and pay the required
fee within six months.
      Subd. 14. Violation. A violation of this Section is a misdemeanor.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
SEC. 6.41. PUBLIC MARKET AND MARKET STANDS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings
stated:
         A. "Public Market and Market Stand" - Outdoor markets and vendor
stands open to the public, including farmers markets, craft markets, flea
markets, and vendors of other miscellaneous goods, utilizing temporary or
permanent vendor stalls and other structures. Mobile food carts and mobile food
vehicles are included within the definition of public market and market stand.
         B. "Exempt Event" - Events designated by City Council resolution as
being exempt from the public market and market stand permitting requirement
under Chapter 11 of the Two Harbors City Code. Vendors participating in and
during an exempt event are allowed in any zone district in which the exempt
event is taking place,
         C. "Mobile Food Cart" - An outdoor food and beverage service
establishment that is a non-motorized vehicle self-propelled by the operator.
         D. "Mobile Food Vehicle" - An outdoor food and beverage service
establishment that is a vehicle-mounted unit, either motorized or trailered.
      Subd. 2. Permit Required. Except for those vendors exempt under Minnesota
Statutes Section 28A.15, no person or business shall operate a public market or
market stand within the City without first obtaining a public market and market
stand permit.
         A.  Public market and market stand permits are not required for
vendors participating in and during an exempt event. Public market and market
stand vendors must obtain the prior authorization of an exempt event sponsor to
operate in and during an exempt event.
         B. Permits may be issued for a one (1) to seven (7) day period or may
be issued annually.
         C.  The fees for a public market and market stand permit shall be set
by resolution of the City Council and amended from time to time. Fees shall not
be prorated.
      Subd. 3. Operation. It shall be unlawful to operate any public market or
market stand in the City unless it is permitted, operated, and conducted in
accordance with the following requirements.
         A.  Prohibited from discarding waste, liquids, garbage, litter, or
refuse on City sidewalks, streets or lawn areas, or in City drains or trash
receptacles. Permit holders shall be responsible for all litter and garbage
left by customers.
         B.  Prohibited from using utilities from public property and right-of-
ways.
         C.  Prohibited from using utilities of any adjacent private property
without first obtaining permission from the private property owner or agent.
         D.  Shall abide by all vehicular public-parking regulations.
         E.  Prohibited from obstructing the ingress or egress from commercial
buildings during the building hours of operation.
         F.  Prohibited from operating or traveling on private property unless
permission is obtained from the private property owner or agent.
         G.  Prohibited from operating or traveling on public sidewalks.
         H.  Prohibited from operating in City-owned parking lots, except those
parking lots adjacent to or inside a City park, or as part of an exempt event.
      Subd. 4. Mobile Food Carts and Mobile Food Vehicle Operation. Mobile food
carts and mobile food vehicles operating under a public market and market stand
permit are subject to the following additional requirements.
         A.  A mobile food cart or mobile food vehicle is, by definition, a
food establishment and must comply with the Minnesota Food Code, Minnesota
Statutes Chapter 157 and Minnesota Rules Chapter 4626, or their successors.
         B.  A mobile food cart or mobile food vehicle shall provide and
maintain at least one clearly designated waste container for customer use per
each mobile food cart or mobile food vehicle.
      Subd. 5. Prohibited Locations.  Public market and market stands
operations are restricted to the zoning districts authorized under a public
market and market stand permit pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Two Harbors City
Code, unless the operation occurs entirely within an exempt event.
      Subd. 6. Operation in Public Parks.
         A.  Public market and market stand operation shall only be permitted
within the following public parks unless the operation occurs entirely within
an exempt event:
            1. Antonich Soccer Field;
            2. Burlington Bay;
            3.  Lakeview Park;
            4.  Odegard Park;
            5.  Paul Van Hoven Park;
            6.  RJ Houle Center;
            7.  Segog Soccer Field and Park; and
            8.  Thomas Owens Park.
         B.  The City may restrict the number of public market and market
stands operating within a park. No reservations will be granted for specific
operating locations or spaces within a public park. Operating spaces are first
come, first choice for permit holders.
         C. Public market and market stands may only operate within a public
park between the hours of 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
      Subd. 7. Violation. A violation of this Section is a misdemeanor.
Source: Ordinance No. 110
Effective Date: 07-20-2017
(Sections 6.42 through 6.49, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 6.50. LODGING TAX.
      Subd. 1. Authority and Purpose.
         1. Authority. In accordance with Minnesota Laws 1994, Chapter 587,
Article 9, Section 11, the City is authorized to impose a tax of up to one
percent (1%) on gross receipts subject to the lodging tax under Minnesota
Statutes, Section 469.190.
         2. Purpose.  The purpose of this Section is to raise revenue to fund
the preservation, display and interpretation of the tugboat Edna G.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
words, terms and phrases shall have the meanings given them in this
Subdivision, unless the language or context clearly indicates a different
meaning is intended. Minnesota Statutes, Section 270C.171 is incorporated for
definitions in this Subdivision. In any potential conflict between the statute
and this Subdivision, the statute shall take precedence.
         1. “Commissioner.” The Commissioner of Revenue of the State of
Minnesota or a person to whom the Commissioner has delegated functions.
         2. City. The City of Two Harbors, Minnesota.
         3. “Lodging and Related Services.” Lodging and related services by a
hotel, rooming house, resort, campground, vacation rental, motel or trailer
camp, including furnishing the guest of the facility with access to
telecommunication services, and the granting of any similar license to use real
property in a specific facility, other than the renting or leasing of it for a
continuous period of thirty (30) days or more under an enforceable written
agreement that may not be terminated without prior notice, and including
accommodations intermediary services provided in connection with other services
provided under this Subdivision.
            a. “Accommodations Intermediary.” Any person or entity, other than
an accommodations provider, that facilitates the sale of lodging and related
services as defined herein, and that charges a room charge to a customer. The
term “Facilitates the Sale” includes brokering, coordinating or in any way
arranging for the purchase of, or the right to use accommodations by a
customer. The term “Room Charge” means the total sales price paid by the
customer for the lodging and related services.
            b. “Accommodations Provider”  Any person or entity that furnishes
lodging and related services, as defined herein, to the general public for
compensation. The term “Furnishes” includes the sale of the use or possession,
or the sale of the right to use or possess.
         4. “State Sales and Use Tax Laws and Rules.” Those provisions of the
state revenue laws applicable to state sales and use tax imposition,
administration, collection and enforcement, including Minnesota Statutes,
Chapters 270C, 289A, 297A, 469A, and Minnesota Rules, Chapter 8130, as amended
from time to time.
      Subd. 3. Local Lodging Tax Imposed; Amount of Tax; Coordination with
State Sales and Use Tax Laws and Rules. A local lodging tax is imposed in the
amount of one percent (1%) on the gross receipts from sales of lodging and
related services, as defined in Subd. 2 of this Section, sourced within the
City limits, that are taxable under the state sales and use tax laws and rules.
All of the provisions of the state sales and use tax laws and rules apply to
the local lodging tax imposed by this Subdivision. The local lodging tax
imposed by this Subdivision shall be collected and remitted to the Commissioner
by the accommodations intermediary and the accommodations provider on any sale,
when the state sales tax must be collected and remitted to the Commissioner
under the state sales and use tax laws and rules and in the same manner, and is
in addition to the state sales and use tax.
      Subd. 4. Advertising No Tax. It shall be unlawful for any accommodations
intermediary or accommodations provider to advertise, hold out or state to the
public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax, or any part
thereof, will be assumed or absorbed by the accommodations intermediary or
accommodations provider, or that it will not be added to the rent, or that, if
added, it or any part thereof will be refunded.
      Subd. 5. Use of Proceeds. All of the revenues, interest and penalties
derived from the lodging tax imposed by this Section collected by the
Commissioner and remitted to the City shall be deposited by the City in the
City Treasury, and shall be credited to the fund established to pay the costs
of collecting the lodging tax imposed by this Section, and to fund the
preservation, display and interpretation of the tugboat Edna G.
      Subd. 6. Agreement with the Commissioner. The City may enter into an
agreement with the Commissioner regarding each party’s respective roles and
responsibilities related to the imposition, administration, collection,
enforcement and termination of the lodging tax imposed by this Section. Any
such agreement shall not abrogate, alter or otherwise conflict with the state
sales and use tax laws and rules, this Section, or Minnesota Laws 1994, Chapter
587, Article 9, Section 11.
               Source: Ordinance No. 119
               Effective Date: 08-31-2020
SEC. 6.51. SALES AND USE TAX.
      Subd. 1. Authority. The Minnesota Legislature has, by laws of Minnesota
for 1998, Chapter 389, Article 8, Section 45, as amended by laws of Minnesota
for 2019, First Special Session, Chapter 6, Article 6, Section 8 authorized the
City to impose one percent (1%) sales and use tax , and a motor vehicle excise
tax within the City to provide revenues to pay certain costs related to
sanitary sewer separation, waste water treatment and harbor refuge development
projects and to finance the capital and administrative costs of water and sewer
infrastructure projects including gravity-fed sewer mains, water mains, drain
tile, service lines, street patching, acquiring property, related engineering,
and construction expenses. The City approved the State Law in accordance with
applicable law, as did the voters of the City.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For purposes of this chapter, the following words,
terms, and phrases have the meanings given them in this section unless the
language or context clearly indicates a different meaning is intended.
         1. "City" means the City of Two Harbors, Minnesota.
         2. "Commissioner" means the commissioner of revenue of the state of
Minnesota or a person to whom the commissioner has delegated functions.
         3. "Designated projects" means the sanitary sewer separation, waste
water treatment and harbor refuge development projects, water and sewer
infrastructure projects including gravity-fed sewer mains, water mains, drain
tile, service lines, street patching, acquiring property, related engineering,
and construction expenses, as authorized by the Minnesota Legislature in Laws
of Minnesota for 1998, Chapter 389, Article 8, Section 45, as amended by laws
of Minnesota for 2019, First Special Session, Chapter 6, Article 6, Section 8
and approved by the voters at the November 6, 2018 referendum.
         4. "State sales and use tax laws and rules" means those provisions of
the state revenue laws applicable to state sales and use tax imposition,
administration, collection, and enforcement, including Minnesota Statutes,
chapters 270C, 289A, 297A, and Minnesota Rules, chapter 8130, as amended from
time to time.
      Subd. 3. Local Sales and Use Tax Imposed; Amount of Tax; Coordination
with State Sales and Use Tax Laws and Rules. A local sales tax is imposed in
the amount one percent (1%) percent on the gross receipts from sales at retail
sourced within city limits which are taxable under the state sales and use tax
laws and rules. A local use tax is imposed in the amount of one percent (1%)
percent on the storage, use, distribution or consumption of goods or services
sourced within city limits which are taxable under the state sales and use tax
laws and rules. All of the provisions of the state sales and use tax laws and
rules apply to the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter. The local
sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall be collected and remitted to
the commissioner on any sale or purchase when the state sales tax must be
collected and remitted to the commissioner under the state sales and use tax
laws and rules and is in addition to the state sales and use tax.
      Subd. 4. Effective Date of Tax; Transitional Sales. The
existing additional one-half percent (0.5%) sales tax shall continue to be
imposed as provided in Section 6.51 prior to the effective date of this
Amendment. Except as otherwise provided herein, the additional one-half percent
(0.5%) local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall apply to sales and
purchases made on or after October 1, 2019. The additional one-half percent
(0.5%) local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply to:
         1. The gross receipts from retail sales or leases of tangible personal
property made pursuant to a bona fide written contract, which unconditionally
vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto, provided that such
contract was enforceable prior to October 1, 2019, and that delivery of the
tangible personal property subject thereto is made on or before October 1,
2019.
         2. The gross receipts from retail sales made pursuant to a bona fide
lump sum or fixed price construction contract, which unconditionally vests the
rights and obligations of the parties thereto and which does not make provision
or allocation of future taxes, provided that such contract was enforceable
prior to October 1, 2019, and that delivery of the tangible personal property
used in performing such construction contract is made before April 1, 2020.
         3. The purchase of taxable services, including utility services, if
the billing period includes charges for services furnished before and after
October 1, 2019, but the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall
apply on the first billing period not including charges for services furnished
before October 1, 2019.
on a prorated basis to lease payment amounts attributable to that portion of
the lease payment period on or after October 1, 2019 and on the entire lease
payment for all lease payment periods thereafter.
      Subd. 5. Tax Clearance; Issuance of Licenses.
         1. The city may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of a
trade or business within the city if the commissioner notified the licensing
division of the city that the applicant owes delinquent city taxes as provided
in this chapter, or penalties or interest due on such taxes.
            A. City taxes include sales and use taxes provided in this article.
Penalties and interest are penalties and interest due on taxes included in this
definition.
         2. Delinquent taxes does not include a tax liability if: (i) an
administrative or court action which contests the amount or validity of the
liability has been filed or served, (ii) the appeal period to contest the tax
liability has not expired, or (iii) the applicant has entered into a payment
agreement and is current with the payments.
         3. Applicant means an individual if the license is issued to or in the
name of an individual or the corporation or partnership if the license is
issued to or in the name of a corporation or partnership.
            A. A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the licensing
division of the city shall also be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case
of renewal of a license, if the applicant requests in writing, within 30 days
of receipt of the notice of hearing, then, a contested hearing shall be held
under the same procedures as provided in M.S. chapter 270A for the state sales
and use tax imposed under M.S. chapter 297A; provided further that if a hearing
must be held on the state sales and use tax, hearings must be combined.
      Subd. 6. Deposit of Revenues; Costs of Administration; Termination of
Tax.
         1. All of the revenues, interest, and penalties derived from the local
sales and use tax imposed by this chapter collected by the commissioner and
remitted to the city shall be deposited by the city finance director in the
city treasury and shall be credited to the fund established to pay the costs of
collecting the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter and to finance
the capital and administrative costs directly related to completing the
designated projects.
         2. The additional one-half percent (0.5%) local sales and use tax
imposed by this chapter shall terminate at the earlier of: (1) 25 years after
the tax is first imposed; or (2) when the city council determines that the
amount of revenues received from the taxes first equals or exceeds $30,000,000,
plus the additional amount sufficient to pay the costs related to issuing bonds
and interest on the bonds has been received from the additional one-half
percent (0.5%) local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter to pay for all
the capital and administrative costs directly related to completing the
designated projects. Any funds remaining after payment of all such costs and
retirement or redemption of the bonds shall be placed in the general fund of
the city. The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter may terminate at
an earlier time if the City Council so determines by ordinance.
      Subd. 7. Amendment and Restatement. This section amends and restates
Ordinance No. 360 and Section 6.51 of the Two Harbors City Code in its
entirety. The provisions of Ordinance No. 360 and Section 6.51 of the Two
Harbors City Code shall continue in full force and effect with respect to all
sales made prior to the imposition of the additional one-half percent (0.5%)
sales tax authorized by the voters on November 6, 2018.
Source: Ordinance No. 360      Source: Ordinance No. 118
Effective Date: 01-22-1999      Effective Date 09-27-2019
(Section 6.52 through 6.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 6.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 7
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
(THIS CHAPTER CONTAINS PROVISIONS AS TO DEFINITIONS, APPLICATION AND SCOPE
RELATING TO CHAPTERS
8 AND
9 AS WELL AS THIS CHAPTER)
SECTION 7.01. DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the City Code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in Minnesota Statutes,
Chapter 169, shall be applicable to City Code, Chapters
7,
8 and
9.
SEC. 7.02. APPLICATION.
   The provisions of City Code, Chapters 7, 8 and 9, are applicable to the
drivers of all vehicles and animals upon streets, including, but not limited
to, those owned or operated by the United States, the State of Minnesota, or
any county, town, city, district, or other political subdivision.
SEC. 7.03. SCOPE AND ORDERS OF OFFICERS.
      Subd. 1. Scope. The provisions of Chapters 7, 8 and 9 relate exclusively
to the streets and alleys in the City, and the operation and parking of
vehicles refer exclusively to the operation and parking of vehicles upon such
streets and alleys.
      Subd. 2. Orders of an Officer. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any
police or peace officer invested by law with authority to direct, control or
regulate traffic.
SEC. 7.04. TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL.
      Subd. 1. Council Action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this Section;
provided, that when traffic and parking control is marked or sign-posted, such
marking or sign-posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
      Subd. 2. Temporary Restrictions. The City, acting through the Chief of
Police, may temporarily restrict traffic or parking for any private, public or
experimental purpose. It is the duty of the Chief of Police to so restrict
traffic or parking when a hazardous condition arises or is observed.
      Subd. 3. Traffic Restrictions and Prohibitions. It is a misdemeanor for
any person to drive a vehicle contrary to lane restrictions or prohibitions
painted on any street, or contrary to sign-posted, fenced, or barricaded
restrictions or prohibitions.
      Subd. 4. Parking Restrictions and Prohibitions. It is unlawful for any
person to park a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, contrary to lane
restrictions or prohibitions painted on any curb, or contrary to sign-posted,
fenced, or barricaded restrictions or prohibitions.
      Subd. 5. Damaging or Moving Markings. It is a misdemeanor for any person
to deface, mar, damage, move, remove, or in any way tamper with any structure,
work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence, painting or
appurtenance in any street unless such person has written permission from the
City or is an agent, employee or contractor for the City, or other authority
having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting within the authority
or scope of a contract with the City or such other authority.
SEC. 7.05. ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
      Subd. 1. Ice and Snow a Nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private property within twelve
(12) hours after such snow or ice has ceased to be deposited.
      Subd. 2. City to Remove Snow and Ice. The City may cause to be removed
from all public sidewalks, beginning twenty-four (24) hours after snow or ice
has ceased to fall, all snow or ice which may be discovered thereon, and it
shall keep a record of the cost of such removal and the private property
adjacent to which such accumulations were found and removed.
      Subd. 3. Cost of Removal to be Assessed. The City Administrator shall,
upon direction of the Council, and on receipt of the information provided for
in the preceding Subdivision, extend the cost of such removal of snow or ice as
a special assessment against the lots or parcel of ground abutting on walks
which were cleared, and such special assessments shall at the time of
certifying taxes to the County Auditor be certified for collection as other
special assessments are certified and collected.
      Subd. 4. Civil Suit for Cost of Removal. The City Administrator shall, in
the alternative, upon direction of the Council, bring suit in a court of
competent jurisdiction to recover from the persons owning land adjacent to
which sidewalks were cleared, as provided in Subdivision 2 hereof, the cost of
such clearing and the cost and disbursement of a civil action therefor.
      Subd. 5. City Administrator to Report Sidewalks Cleared. The City
Administrator shall present to the Council at its first meeting after snow or
ice has been cleared from the sidewalks as provided in Subdivision 2 hereof the
report of the City thereon, and shall request the Council to determine by
resolution the manner of collection to be used as provided in Subdivisions 3 or
4 of this Section.
SEC. 7.06. CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY SURFACING, SIDEWALK, CURB
AND GUTTER.
      Subd. 1. Methods of Procedure.
         A. The Council shall contract for or perform the construction or
reconstruction of all public roads, sidewalks, curbs and gutters. Costs may be
assessed against the affected property owners under the Local Improvement Code.
         B. With or without petition by the methods set forth in the Local
Improvement Code of Minnesota Statutes, presently beginning with Section
429.011, as the same may from time to time be amended.
SEC. 7.07. OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
      Subd. 1. Obstructions. It is a misdemeanor for any person to place,
deposit, display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions
upon, over, across or under any street without first having obtained a written
permit from the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects with the
terms and conditions of such permit, and taking precautionary measures for the
protection of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby
included, but not by way of limitation, within the definition of an
obstruction.
      Subd. 2. Fires. It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a
fire upon a street.
      Subd. 3. Dumping in Streets. It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw
or deposit in any street any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded
cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or
paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or
to empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. It is a
violation of this Section to haul any such material, inadequately enclosed or
covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon streets. It is also a
violation of this Section to place or store any building materials or waste
resulting from building construction or demolition on any street without first
having obtained a written permit from the Council.
      Subd. 4. Signs and Other Structures. It is a misdemeanor for any person
to place or maintain a sign, advertisement, or other structure in any street
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a district
zoned for commercial or industrial enterprises special permission allowing an
applicant to erect and maintain signs overhanging the street may be granted
upon such terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions of the City Code.
      Subd. 5. Placing Snow or Ice in a Roadway or on a Sidewalk.
         A. It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific
contract with the City or without special permission from the City
Administrator, to remove snow or ice from private property and place the same
in any roadway or on a sidewalk.
         B. Where permission is granted by the City Administrator the person to
whom such permission is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of
all direct or indirect costs of removing the snow or ice from the street or
sidewalk. If not paid, collection shall be by civil action or assessment
against the benefitted property as any other special assessment.
      Subd. 6. Continuing Violation. Each day that any person continues in
violation of this Section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
      Subd. 7. Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the
provisions of this Section, the Council may impose such insurance or bonding
conditions thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or private
property or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding such persons and
property. Such insurance or bond shall also protect the City from any suit,
action or cause of action arising by reason of such obstruction.
SEC. 7.08. STREET OPENINGS OR EXCAVATIONS.
      Subd. 1. Unlawful Act. It is a misdemeanor for any person, except (1) a
City employee acting within the course and scope of his/her employment, (2) a
contractor acting within the course and scope of a contract with the City, or
(3) a franchisee acting within the course and scope of its franchise from the
City, to make any excavation, opening or tunnel in, over, across or under a
street or other public property without first having obtained a written permit
from the City Administrator as herein provided.
      Subd. 2. Application and Investigation.
         A. Application for a permit to make a street opening or excavation
shall describe with reasonable particularity the name and address of the
applicant, the place of the proposed excavation, its purpose and size, the name
and address of all owners and the legal description of the premises to be
served by the excavation, and such other information as may be necessary or
desirable to facilitate the investigation, estimate costs, and prepare an
agreement. Applications shall be accepted from, and permits issued to, all of
the owners of the premises to be served by the excavation. Provided, that if
the owners will not actually perform the work, their contractor or other person
must join in the application as their agent.
         B. The City Administrator shall refer the application to the Public
Works Director who shall cause such investigation to be made as he/she may deem
necessary to determine the estimated cost of repair, including back-filling,
compacting, resurfacing and replacement, and the time and manner of procedure
and the time limitation upon such excavation. The Public Works Director shall
estimate the cost, including temporary and permanent repairs due to weather and
other conditions, and the cost of such investigation shall be included in the
estimate.
      Subd. 3. Manner of Performance. All temporary and permanent repairs,
including back-filling, compacting, and resurfacing, shall be made, or
contracted for, by the permittee strictly in accordance with Specifications for
Street Opening Repairs as promulgated by the City and under the direction of
the Public Works Director. If the Public Works Director finds that those
Specifications are not being strictly adhered to he/she shall stop the work
immediately and it shall be treated as abandoned. The Public Works Director
shall endorse the permit as satisfactorily completed or abandoned. The
Specifications for Street Opening Repairs and the duties of the Public Works
Director shall apply equally to all excavations by permittees, City employees,
contractors with the City, and franchisees.
      Subd. 4. Abandonment. Work shall progress expeditiously to completion in
accordance with any time limitation placed thereon so as to avoid unnecessary
inconvenience to the public. In the event that work is not performed in
accordance with the permit, or shall cease or be abandoned, the City
Administrator may give notice in writing to the permittee(s) to complete the
work within fourteen (14) days or the City will perform the work in which case
the cost thereof shall be a continuing obligation, jointly and severally, of
the permittee and owners of the premises to be served.
      Subd. 5. Insurance and Indemnification. No permit shall be issued until
(1) the applicant has furnished the City satisfactory evidence in writing that
the applicant will keep in effect public liability insurance of not less than
$100,000.00 for any person, and $300,000.00 for any occurrence, and property
damage insurance of not less than $25,000.00, issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Minnesota and on which the City is
named as a co-insured, and, (2) the applicant and all owners have agreed in
writing to indemnify and hold the City harmless from any liability for injury
or damage arising out of the action of the applicant in performance of the
work, or any expense whatsoever incurred by the City incident to a claim or
action brought or commenced by any person arising therefrom.
      Subd. 6. Issuance of Permit. The City Administrator shall issue such
permit only after (1) completion of such investigation, (2) payment by the
applicant in advance of all estimated costs to be incurred by the City, (3)
agreement by the applicant and owners to the conditions of time and manner of
performance, (4) agreement by the applicant and owners to pay all actual costs
of repairs over and above the estimate, (5) agreement in writing by the
applicant and owners to be bound by all of the provisions of this Section and
the Specifications hereinbefore referred to, and (6) agreement by the applicant
(s) to such other and additional conditions as the Council may deem necessary.
      Subd. 7. Cost Adjustment and Warranty. Within sixty days following
completion of permanent repairs, the City Administrator shall determine actual
costs of repairs, including cost of investigation, and prepare and furnish to
such permittee(s) an itemized statement thereof and claim additional payment
from, or make refund (without interest) to, the permittee(s), as the case may
be. The permittee(s) shall be responsible for any damages by way of settlement
or defect in the resurfacing for a period of one year following the completion
of the work.
      Subd. 8. Assessment. Any uncollected costs to the City may, at the option
of the City, be collected in a civil action, or certified as a special
assessment.
      Subd. 9. Map of Subsurface Installations. The Public Works Director shall
maintain a map showing the location of all utility and other installations made
beneath the surface of any public street, grounds or right-of-way. The
information on the map shall be sufficiently complete and accurate to permit
anyone making an excavation in a public place having any underground
installation and to properly locate any new underground facilities shall be
recorded on the map as soon as practicable upon the issuance of an excavation
permit or the completion of a contract for the installation of City underground
installations.
SEC. 7.09. VACATION OF STREETS.
      Subd. 1. No public grounds or streets shall be vacated except upon the
Council's own motion or upon the petition directed to the Council of a majority
of the owners of property on the line of such public grounds or streets
residing within the City, and completion of the procedure hereinafter
specified. Such petition shall set forth the reasons for such desired vacation,
accompanied by a plat of such public grounds or streets proposed to be vacated,
and such petition shall be verified by the oath of a majority of the
petitioners residing within the City.
      Subd. 2. If, in the discretion of the Council, it is expedient that the
matter be proceeded with, it may order the petition filed for record with the
City Administrator, order a hearing on such petition and fix the time and place
of such hearing.
      Subd. 3. The City Administrator shall give notice of such hearing by
publication once at least fifteen (15) days in advance of such hearing, and by
mail to the last known address of all of the owners of property on the line of
such public grounds or streets proposed to be vacated at least ten (10) days in
advance of such hearing, such last known addresses to be obtained from the
office of the County Auditor. Such notice shall in brief state the object of
such hearing, the time, place and purpose thereof, and the fact that the
Council, or a Board or Commission designated by them shall hear the testimony
and examine the evidence of the parties interested.
      Subd. 4. The Council, after hearing the same, or upon the report of such
Board or Commission designated to hold such hearings, may by resolution passed
by unanimous vote of all members, declare such public grounds or streets
vacated, or deny such petition. The resolution, if granting the petition, shall
be certified by the City Administrator and shall be filed for record and duly
recorded in the office of the County Recorder in and for Lake County,
Minnesota.
SEC. 7.10. PARADES.
      Subd. 1. Definition. The term "parade" means any movement of vehicles,
persons or animals, or any combination thereof, which either moves together and
as a body so as to in some way impede or affect the free and unobstructed flow
of vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or which moves so that some part thereof is
in violation of one or more traffic laws or regulations, if such movement is
without a permit hereunder.
      Subd. 2. Permit Required. It is unlawful to sponsor or participate in a
parade for which no permit has been obtained from the City, and it is also
unlawful to obtain a parade permit and not conduct the same in accordance with
the permit granted by the City. Application for such permit shall be made to
the City Administrator at least 21 days in advance of the date on which it is
to occur and shall state the sponsoring organization or individual, the route,
the length, the estimated time of commencement and termination, the general
composition, and such application shall be executed by the individuals applying
therefor or the duly authorized agent or representative of the sponsoring
organization.
      Subd. 3. Investigation. The City Administrator shall forthwith refer all
applications for parades to the Chief of Police for his/her consideration which
shall take no longer than seven (7) days. If any State trunk highways are in
the route the Chief of Police shall make all necessary arrangements with the
Minnesota Department of Public Safety for alternate routes or whatever may be
necessary. If the Chief of Police finds that such a parade will not cause a
hazard to persons or property, and will cause no great inconvenience to the
public, and if he/she is able to make arrangements for necessary direction and
control of traffic, he/she shall endorse his/her acceptance and return the
application to the City Administrator. If the Chief of Police finds the parade
described in the application to be a hazard, a substantial inconvenience, or if
he/she is unable to make adequate arrangements for direction or control of
traffic, he/she shall return the same to the City Administrator with his/her
findings.
      Subd. 4. Council Action. The City Administrator shall refer the
application and results of investigation to the Council at its next regular
meeting. The Council may either (1) deny the permit, (2) grant the permit, or
(3) grant the permit on condition that a date, time or route are acceptable to
applicant which differ from such as stated in the application. Applicant shall
have three (3) days within which to communicate his/her acceptance to the City
Administrator.
      Subd. 5. Unlawful Acts.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to hamper, obstruct, or impede or
interfere with any parade, parade assembly or any person, animal or vehicle
participating in the parade.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle between the
vehicles or persons comprising a parade when such parade is in motion.
         C. It is unlawful for any person to enter into a parade without prior
authorization from the parade chairman.
      Subd. 6. Exceptions. This Section shall not apply to (1) funeral
processions, or (2) a governmental agency acting within the scope of its
functions.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 7.11 through 7.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 7.20. REGULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS AND TREES.
      Subd. 1. City to Control Tree Planting (Standards). The City shall have
control and supervision of planting shrubs and trees upon, or overhanging, all
the streets or other public property. The City may establish and enforce
uniform standards relating to the kinds and types of trees to be planted and
the placement thereof. Such standards shall be kept on file in the office of
the City Administrator and may be revised from time to time by action of the
Council upon the recommendation of the City Administrator.
      Subd. 2. Permit Required. It is unlawful for any person to plant, spray,
trim or remove trees or other plants which are upon City property, including
rights-of-way, without first procuring from the City a permit in writing to do
so.
      Subd. 3. Duty of Property Owners to Cut Grass and Weeds and Maintain
Trees and Shrubs. Every owner of property abutting on any street shall cause
the grass and weeds to be cut from the line of such property nearest to such
street to the center of such street. If the grass or weeds in such a place
attain a height in excess of six (6) inches it shall be prima facie evidence of
a failure to comply with this Subdivision. Every owner of property abutting on
any street shall, subject to the provision herein requiring a permit therefor,
trim, cut and otherwise maintain all trees and shrubs from the line of such
property nearest to such street to the center of such street.
      Subd. 4. City May Order Work Done. The City may, in cases of failure to
comply with this Section, perform such work with employees of the City, keeping
an accurate account of the cost thereof for each lot, piece or parcel of land
abutting upon such street.
      Subd. 5. Assessment. If such maintenance work is performed by the City as
set forth in the foregoing Subdivision, the City Administrator shall forthwith
upon completion thereof ascertain the cost attributable to each lot, piece or
parcel of abutting land. The City Administrator shall, at the next regular
meeting thereof, present such certificate to the Council and obtain its
approval thereof. When such certificate has been approved it shall be extended
as to the cost therein stated as a special assessment against such abutting
land and such special assessment shall, at the time of certifying taxes to the
County Auditor, be certified for collection as other special assessments are
certified and collected.
SEC. 7.21. LOAD LIMITS.
   The City Administrator, upon the recommendation of the Public Works
Director, may from time to time impose upon vehicular traffic on any part or
all of the streets such load limits as may be necessary or desirable. Such
limits, and the specific extent or weight to which loads are limited, shall be
clearly and legibly sign-posted thereon. It is unlawful for any person to
operate a vehicle on any street in violation of the limitation so posted.
SEC. 7.22. REQUIREMENT OF SEWER AND WATER MAIN SERVICE LATERAL INSTALLATION.
      Subd. 1. Requirement of Sewer and Water Laterals. No petition for the
improvement of a street shall be considered by the Council if such petition
contemplates constructing therein any part of a pavement or stabilized base, or
curb and gutter, unless all sewer and water main installations shall have been
made therein, including the installation of service laterals to the curb, if
the area along such street will be served by such utilities installed in the
street.
      Subd. 2. Sewer System Service and Water Main Service Laterals. No sewer
system shall be hereafter constructed or extended unless service laterals to
platted lots and frontage facing thereon shall be extended simultaneously with
construction of mains.
      Subd. 3. Waiver. The Council may waive the requirements of this Section
only if it finds the effects thereof are burdensome and upon such notice and
hearing as the Council may deem necessary or proper.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
SEC. 7.23. TREES.
      Subd. 1. Purpose and Scope. This Section provides full power and
authority over all trees, plants and shrubs located within street or alley
rights-of-way, parks and public places of the City; and to trees, plants and
shrubs located on private property that constitute a hazard or threat as
described herein. This Section has been developed under the authority given to
the Two Harbors Trees and Trails Commission under Sec. 2.48 of the City Code.
      Subd. 2. Public Works Appointee for Care and Maintenance of Trees.
         A. Appointment. The Public Works Director and/or his authorized
representative (City Tree Inspector [CTI]) shall be charged with the care and
maintenance of all trees described in Subdivision 1.
         B. Qualifications. He or she will take and pass the International
Society of Arboriculture's Certified Arborist examination within one (1) year
of being designated. If such examination is not taken and passed within such
time period the CTI shall cease to act as a CTI.
            1. The CTI will refer to the latest edition of the Tree Inspector's
Field Manual – Minnesota Department of Agriculture – Agronomy and Plant
Protection Division in matters related to his duties. A copy of such manual
shall at all times be on file in the office of the City Clerk.
         C.  Powers and Duties. The CTI shall have the power/duty to:
            1. Set rules and regulations of arboricultural standards governing
the protection, maintenance, and removal and planting of trees or shrubs upon
the street or alley right-of-way, parks or public places of the City.
            2. Enforce rules, regulations and specifications concerning the
trimming, removal, spraying, planting, pruning and protection of trees or
shrubs upon the street or alley right-of-way, parks or public places of the
City.
            3. Cause the immediate abatement of any nuisance on private or
public property provided the nuisance is determined by the CTI to be an
immediate threat to any person or property.
            4. Supervise and inspect all work done pursuant to permits issued
under this Section.
            5. Provide administrative guidance in carrying out the activities
of the Trees and Trails Commission.
            6. Implement and update the management plan annually with guidance
from the Trees and Trails Commission.
            7. Subject to compliance with applicable law relating to searches,
enter onto private property whereon there is located a tree, shrub, plant or
plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance and order its removal if
necessary. If said removal is not complied with, the CTI can cause removal and
the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the owner.
         D.  Interference with CTI. No person shall interfere with the CTI or
his/her authorized representative while they are engaged in carrying out any
work or activities authorized by this Section.
      Subd. 3. Prohibited Acts. No person shall engage in the following
activities in a public area without written permission from the CTI:
         A. Secure any sign, advertisement or notice to any public tree.
         B. Approve all tree removals as recommended by the CTI.
         C. Allow any fire or heat to come into contact with any public tree.
         D. Allow any toxic chemical, gas, smoke, oil or other injurious
substance to seep, drain or be emptied on any public tree.
         E. Attach any guy wire, cable, rope, nails, screws or other device to
any public tree.
         F. Deposit, store, place or maintain any stone, brick, sand, concrete
or other materials, which may impede free passage of water, air, or fertilizer
to the roots of any tree growing on public property.
         G. Paint, whitewash or in any way discolor the stem base, bole or root
of any public tree.
         H. Plow, blow, shovel or pile snow in a manner that is injurious to
any public tree.
         I. Excavate any ditches, tunnels, trenches or lay any drive within a
radius of ten (10) feet from any public tree.
         J. Fail to take reasonable and necessary efforts to protect public
trees to be retained during the construction of streets, sidewalks, boulevards,
driveways or buildings.
      Subd. 4. Tree Planting, Maintenance and Removal.
         A.  Tree Planting.
            1. All trees located in street rights-of-way (“boulevard trees”)
and trees in public areas shall be planted according to the tree planting
standards developed by the CTI and Trees and Trails Commission. The CTI shall
make copies of the tree planting standards available to the general public.
            2. No person may plant a tree on a boulevard or in any public area
without the written permission of the CTI.
   The CTI must approve species and location approval. Once planted, the tree
(s) shall be strictly subject to management by the City including pruning and
removal as necessary.
            3. The CTI and Trees and Trails Commission will develop a
recommended list of species to be planted and a list of species prohibited. The
list will be made available to the general public.
            4. Whenever any tree shall be planted in conflict with the
provisions of this Section, it shall be lawful for the CTI to remove or cause
removal of said tree and the exact cost thereof shall be assessed to the owner
as provided by law in the case of special assessments.
         B.  Tree Removal. Trees growing in public areas may be removed at the
direction of the CTI if one (1) or more of the following criteria are met:
            1. The tree creates a public nuisance because of its species, size,
location or condition which may include, but is not limited to, fruit or seed
drop, insects, excessive limb breakage or internal rot.
            2. The tree poses a safety hazard that cannot be corrected by
pruning or other treatment.
            3. The tree interferes with the growth of a more desirable tree.
            4. Work improvements required to be made near the tree will kill
the tree or render it a hazard.
            5. Preservation of the tree, when adjacent property is developed is
not cost effective.
            6. The aesthetic value of the tree is substantially outweighed by
the visual enhancement caused by the tree's removal.
            7. The tree is infected with an insect or disease and alternative
means of control are not practical and removal is necessary to prevent spread.
            8. The tree is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines or other public improvements.
      Subd. 5. Emergencies. Work may proceed without notice when exigent
circumstances exist and work is required to prevent or mitigate property damage
or public safety hazard or disruption of essential City services.
      Subd. 6. Violations. Any person found guilty of violating any provision
of this Section or failing to comply with any order issued pursuant to the
provisions of this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each separate
offense. Violations under Subdivision 8, “Tree Preservation and Woodland
Preservation” will be processed according to the specifications laid out under
Subdivision 8 of this Section.
      Subd. 7. Definitions. All words in these standards have their customary
dictionary definitions except as specifically defined herein.
      Subd. 8. Tree Preservation and Woodland Preservation. The following
standards shall apply to any development for which a preliminary plat, grading
plan or building permit or other similar City approval is required to be
applied for, and subsequently issued after the adoption of this Section.
         A. Woodlands and Trees.
            1. Structures, driveways and parking facilities shall be located in
such a manner that the maximum number of trees should be preserved. The
applicant shall not remove trees six (6) inches DBH (diameter at breast height)
without prior approval from the CTI.
   Healthy trees less than six (6) inches DBH will be evaluated by the CTI for
protection or preservation.
            2. A person seeking permission to remove any tree shall demonstrate
that there are no feasible alternatives to removing these resources on the
site. For purposes of this Subparagraph the “no build alternative” is not to be
considered a feasible alternative.
         B.
   Tree Replacement.
            1. Tree replacement species will be approved by the CTI and Trees
and Trails Commission.
            2. Species planted shall be hardy under local conditions and
compatible with the local landscape and not less than one and one-half (1.5)
inches in DBH.
         C.  Tree Replacement Schedule. The CTI will determine tree quality of
high, medium or low based on an inspection of the property and the application
of the standards and criteria set forth in Tree Inspector's Field Manual –
Minnesota Department of Agriculture – Agronomy and Plant Protection Division.
The CTI will recommend replacement trees and planting guidelines based on the
City's Recommended Trees Species and Guidelines for Planting attached to
Ordinance 51, passed May 26, 2009, as Exhibit A.
   The inspection and determination shall be made as soon as reasonably
possible after a request for such determination is made which in no event shall
be later than ten (10) business days after such request. The applicant shall
replace removed trees using the following schedule:
            1. High Quality Woodland. Replace one (1) tree for every one (1)
tree removed that has a DBH of six (6) inches or greater.
            2. Medium Quality Woodland. Replace one (1) tree for every two (2)
trees removed that has a DBH of six (6) inches or greater.
            3. Low Quality Woodland. Replace one (1) tree for every three (3)
trees removed that has a DBH of six (6) inches or greater.
         D.  Tree and Woodlands Mitigation Standards.
            1. All development activities, including grading and contouring,
should take place in such a manner that the root zone of existing trees shall
not be affected to an area equal to the drip line.
            2. Installation of snow fencing or safety netting shall be placed
at the dripline. No grade change, construction activity or storage of materials
shall occur within the fenced area.
            3. The applicant and the applicant's construction shall take steps
to prevent the change in soil chemistry due to concrete washout and leakage or
spillage of toxic materials such as paint or fuels.
            4. Notwithstanding the above, the removal of diseased trees or
trees seriously damaged by storms or other acts of God shall be permitted with
prior approval by the CTI.
         E.  Responsibility for Compliance.
            1. The developer will be responsible for replacing the trees that
are required to be placed upon his/her/its property.
            2. The developer will place with the City a bond or other security
equal to $300.00 per tree to be replaced. The bond will be returned upon
completion of tree replacement as determined by the CTI.
            3. Tree replacement must be completed within three (3) months of
completion of major aspects of the project.
            4. The developer will inform the CTI within five (5) days of
completing tree replacement.
            5. The CTI will inspect the property to confirm compliance within
five (5) days of being contacted. The CTI and developer will sign an official
form confirming completion of the planting. The form will be placed in the
project file at City Hall.
            6. The developer will be responsible for the health and maintenance
of the trees. The developer will be required to replace the trees should the
replacement trees die within the first year following planting. Trees that die
due to acts of God will not have to be replaced.
         F.  Location of Replacement Trees. Replacement trees shall be located
on the property experiencing the loss of trees if reasonably possible. If not,
the replacement trees shall be located at such place within the City as
determined by the property owner and approved by the CTI.
      Subd. 9. Right of Appeal. Any aggrieved party with a legal interest in a
property that is subject to any provision of this Section is entitled to appeal
any action of the City Tree Inspector (CTI). An appeal shall first be heard by
the Trees and Trails Commission. To be effective, an appeal must be filed
within ten (10) business days after the decision of the CTI.
   The appeal shall be in writing and shall be filed with the City Clerk for
placement on the Commission's agenda. The appeal shall clearly specify the
reasons for which a hearing is requested. After a hearing, the Trees and Trails
Commission shall render its decision, which shall be final unless appealed to
the City Council. To be effective, an appeal to the City Council must be in
writing, state the reasons for the appeal, and must be filed with the City
Clerk within ten (10) business days after notice of the decision of the Trees
and Trails Commission is mailed to the applicant. The decision of the City
Council shall be final. Action under any permit upon which the CTI's inspection
and decision is based shall be suspended pending final decision of the City
Council on the appeal.
Source: Ordinance No. 51
Effective Date: 06-25-2009
(Sections 7.24 through 7.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 7.30. MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.  
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motorized vehicle,
except a wheelchair powered by electricity and occupied by a handicapped
person, on any public sidewalk or public property designated for use as a
pedestrian walkway or bicycle trail, except when crossing the same for ingress
and egress through a curb cut to property lying on the other side thereof.
SEC. 7.31. SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
      Subd. 1. Primary Responsibility. The City shall assume responsibility for
construction, reconstruction and repair of sidewalks based on need determined
by the City Inspector or petition by owners of abutting property.
      Subd. 2. Cost Share. Cost share of the abutting property owners shall be
determined by the Council.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 7.32 through 7.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 7.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR PETTY MISDEMEANOR.  
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
      Subd. 1.  Where the specific section, subdivision, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he/she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he/she shall
be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he/she stands convicted of violation of
any provision of this Chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing
or parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediate preceding 12-month
period for the third or subsequent time, he/she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor.
      Subd. 2. As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of Subdivision 1 hereof, he/she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 8
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS (SEE CHAPTER 7 FOR DEFINITIONS, SCOPE AND APPLICATION
RELATING TO THIS CHAPTER)
SECTION 8.01. HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATION ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, or in Chapters 7 and 9 of this
Code, Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 169, (commonly referred to as the Highway
Traffic Regulation Act), as amended through Laws 1997, is hereby incorporated
herein and adopted by reference, including the penalty provisions thereof.
SEC. 8.02. TRUCK ROUTE.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a tractor, agricultural implement,
truck over 9,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, truck-trailer, tractor-trailer or
truck tractor in through traffic, upon any street except those which have been
designated and sign-posted as truck routes. For the purpose of this Chapter,
"through traffic" means originating without the City and with a destination
without the City, as distinguished from "local traffic" which means traffic
either originating or having a destination within the City.
SEC. 8.03. BICYCLES.
      Subd. 1. Traffic Laws Apply. Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway
or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted
all of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle by this Chapter, except as to special regulations in this
Chapter and except as to those provisions of this Chapter which by their nature
can have no application.
      Subd. 2. Manner and Number Riding.
         A. It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other
than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
         B. No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle, provided that such seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child's
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
      Subd. 3. Hitching Rides. It is unlawful for any person riding upon any
bicycle, coaster, roller skates, toboggan, sled, skateboard or toy vehicle to
attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
      Subd. 4. Where to Ride.
         A. Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near
to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
         B. Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
         C. Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use such paths and shall not use the roadway.
      Subd. 5. Right of Way - Sidewalks. Whenever a person is riding a bicycle
upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right of way to any pedestrian and
shall give audible signal before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
Provided, that it is unlawful for any person to ride a bicycle on a sidewalk in
a Business District or to park a bicycle upon a sidewalk except where parking
stalls have been provided.
      Subd. 6. Carrying Articles. It is unlawful for any person operating a
bicycle to carry any package, bundle or article which prevents the driver from
keeping at least one hand upon the handlebars.
      Subd. 7. Overtaking A Bicycle or an Individual Proceeding in the Same
Direction. A person operating a bicycle or other vehicle on a bikeway shall
leave a safe distance when overtaking a bicycle or individual proceeding in the
same direction on the bikeway, and shall maintain clearance until safely past
the overtaken bicycle or individual.
SEC. 8.04. U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle by turning so as to
proceed in the opposite direction upon any street except at a street
intersection, and then only if the street intersection is not sign-posted
prohibiting a U-turn or otherwise controlled by a traffic signal; provided,
that any person making a permitted U-turn shall yield the right-of-way to all
other vehicles.
SEC. 8.05. LEFT TURNS PROHIBITED.
   The Chief of Police may, in his/her discretion, prohibit left turns
entirely, or during specified hours, at certain intersections. It is unlawful
for any person to make a left turn at any intersection sign-posted prohibiting
the same, or make a left turn during the hours of such sign-posted prohibition.
SEC. 8.06. EXHIBITION DRIVING.
      Subd. 1. Prima Facie Evidence. It is prima facie evidence of exhibition
driving when a motor vehicle stops, starts, accelerates, decelerates, or turns
at an unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears to grind,
soil to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding, or, as to two-
wheeled or three-wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to lose contact with
the ground or roadway surface.
      Subd. 2. Prohibition. The use of engine retarder and/or transmission
brakes (Jake Brakes) is prohibited within the corporate limits of the City
except in an emergency.
      Subd. 3. Unlawful Act. It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any
exhibition driving on any street, parking lot, or other public or private
property, except when an emergency creates necessity for such operation to
prevent injury to persons or damage to property; provided, that this Section
shall not apply to driving on a racetrack. For purposes of this Section, a
"racetrack" means any track or premises whereon motorized vehicles, horses,
dogs, or other animals or fowl legally compete in a race or timed contest for
an audience, the members of which have directly or indirectly paid a
consideration for admission.
SEC. 8.07. ONE-WAY STREETS.
      Subd. 1. The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as one-way
streets.
      Subd. 2. It is a misdemeanor for any person to travel upon any one-way
street in a direction opposite that designated when the same has been duly
sign-posted.
SEC. 8.08. DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to avoid obedience to any traffic control
device by driving upon or through any private property.
SEC. 8.09. EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply to vehicles when operated
with due regard for safety, under the direction of police officers in the chase
or apprehension of violators of the law or of persons charged with or suspected
of any such violation, nor to Fire Department or rescue vehicles when traveling
in response to a fire alarm, nor to ambulances when traveling in emergencies.
This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any such vehicle from
the consequences of a reckless disregard of the safety of others.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 8.10 through 8.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 8.20. SNOWMOBILE TRAFFIC CONTROL AND REGULATIONS.
      Subd. 1. It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile with the
City limits unless it is equipped with at least one headlamp, one taillamp, a
strip of reflectorized material of a minimum area of 16 square inches mounted
on each side forward of the handlebars, muffler and brakes; all of which must
conform to the standards which have previously been or which may hereafter be
prescribed by rule and regulation of the appropriate officials of the State of
Minnesota.
      Subd. 2. It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile at any
time upon a sidewalk within the City limits.
      Subd. 3. It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile at any
time upon the Municipal Golf Court except on those specific trails which are
specified and designated for that purpose by the Golf Course Manager of the
Municipal Golf Course. Any snowmobile traversing or going upon the Municipal
Golf Course off a designated trail shall be in violation of this Section.
      Subd. 4. It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile at any
time upon the Municipal Cemetery.
      Subd. 5. It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
City limits between the hours of 1:00 A.M. and 5:00 A.M. Central Standard Time.
      Subd. 6. No person under 14 years of age shall make a direct crossing of
a street as an operator of a snowmobile.
      Subd. 7. A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of
age, may make a direct crossing of the street as an operator of a snowmobile
only if such person has a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the
State of Minnesota in their possession.
      Subd. 8. A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street provided:
         A. The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing; and
         B. The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before proceeding
across the street; and
         C. The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic; and
         D. If the crossing is made between the hours of sunset and sunrise or
in conditions of reduced visibility, only if both the front and rear lights of
such snowmobile are on.
      Subd. 9. A snowmobile must obey all traffic requirements and regulations,
including stop signs.
      Subd. 10. A snowmobile must stop at all intersections and must yield the
right-of-way to all oncoming traffic.
      Subd. 11. A snowmobile may not be operated in excess of 10 miles per hour
on any street or alley within the City.
      Subd. 12. It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the
snowmobile to be operated contrary to the provisions of this Section.
      Subd. 13. A snowmobile shall be operated only on those locations as may
from time to time be designated by resolution of the Council as snowmobile
routes within the City limits except if the snowmobile is taking the most
direct path, not contrary to the terms and conditions of this Section to arrive
at such designated snowmobile route.
      Subd. 14. All provisions of Section 8.01 regulating traffic within the
City shall apply to operation of snowmobiles upon streets and alleys, except
those relating to required equipment and those which by their nature have no
application to snowmobiles.
      Subd. 15. Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $700.00 and may be imprisoned in the County Jail for a period
not to exceed 90 days.
SEC. 8.21. UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person: (1) to display, or cause or permit to be
displayed, or have in his/her possession, any canceled, revoked, suspended,
fictitious, or fraudulently altered driver's license; or, (2) to lend his/her
driver's license to any other person or knowingly permit the use thereof by
another; or, (3) to display or represent as one's own any driver's license not
issued to him/her; or, (4) to fail or refuse to surrender to the Department of
Highways of the State of Minnesota, upon its lawful demand, any driver's
license which has been suspended, revoked, or canceled; or, (5) to use a false
or fictitious name or date of birth to any police officer or in any application
for a driver's license, or to knowingly make a false statement, or to knowingly
conceal a material fact, or otherwise commit a fraud in any such application.
SEC. 8.22. SPECIAL VEHICLE USE.
      Subd. 1. Operation Authorized. Operation of motorized golf carts is
hereby authorized on the roadways of all streets, except such as are prohibited
by resolution of the Council, and only in strict compliance with this Section.
      Subd. 2. Permits. Permits shall be issued only to persons l8 years of age
or older who have a valid driver's license. Application for a permit to operate
a motorized golf cart on the roadways of streets shall include the name and
address of the applicant and such other information as may from time-to-time be
required by the Council. All permits shall be granted for a period of one year
and may be renewed annually. The annual fee for a permit shall be fixed by
resolution of the Council.
      Subd. 3. Designation of Roadways. The Chief of Police shall designate
City roadways or portions thereof upon which motorized golf carts shall be
permitted to operate. At no time shall a golf cart be driven upon a State
highway except at an intersection, and only for the purpose of crossing the
State highway at the intersection on a designated roadway. Each golf cart
driven upon a designated roadway shall remain at, or as close as possible to,
the curb. All golf carts shall use the most direct route to and from the golf
course.
      Subd. 4. Unlawful Acts. It is unlawful for any person to operate a
motorized golf cart on the roadway of a street unless the operator observes all
traffic laws, except such as cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf
carts, and except as otherwise specifically provided by statute (presently
Section 169.045, Subdivision 7.)
      Subd. 5. Suspension or Revocation of Permit. The Council may suspend or
revoke a permit granted hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has
violated any provisions of this Section or Chapter l69 of Minnesota Statutes,
or if there is evidence that the permittee cannot safely operate the motorized
golf cart on designated roadways.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 8.23 through 8.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 8.30. INATTENTIVE DRIVING.
      Subd. 1. It is unlawful for any person to be so engaged or occupied while
driving a motor vehicle as to interfere with the safe driving of such vehicle.
      Subd. 2. Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this Section
may be punished by a fine not to exceed $700.00 and/or imprisonment of up to 90
days.
SEC. 8.31. ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE TRAFFIC CONTROL AND REGULATIONS.
      Subd. 1. Scope of Application. Notwithstanding provisions of this Chapter
to the contrary, this Section shall apply to control of traffic and regulation
of that certain class of vehicles falling within the definition of all-terrain
vehicles as to matters set forth herein. All provisions of this Chapter, not
relating to matters herein stated, apply as equally to snowmobiles as other
vehicles.
      Subd. 2. Certain Statutes Adopted. Minnesota Statutes, Sections 84.92
through 84.929, as amended through 1994, together with rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, are hereby adopted by reference, incorporated herein,
and made a part hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 8.32 through 8.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 8.40. SKATEBOARDS AND ROLLER SKATES.
       Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section,
shall have the meanings stated:
         1. "Skateboard" means a device for riding upon, usually while
standing, consisting of an oblong piece of wood or other material mounted on
skate wheels. Skateboard does not mean or include roller skates.
         2. "Roller Skate" including in-line skates, or "Roller Blades" means a
shoe with wheels or rollers attached or a device with wheels or rollers which
may be or are attached to a shoe.
         3. "Operate" means to ride on or upon or control the movement of a
skateboard or roller skates.
         4. "Operator" means a person who rides on or upon or controls the
movement of a skateboard or roller skates.
      Subd. 2. Regulation of the Use of Roller Skates. It is unlawful for any
person to use roller skates on any public sidewalk within the area of the 500
and 600 Block of 1st Avenue, the 100 Block of 7th Street, the 100 Block of
Waterfront Drive, the block between 1st Avenue and South Avenue on Waterfront
Drive, the South Avenue Municipal Parking area and the 500 Block of South
Avenue including the Depot and Community Building parking areas and sidewalks
between the hours of 8:00 A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
      Subd. 3. Regulation of the Use of Skateboards. It is unlawful for any
person to operate a skateboard under the circumstances set forth as follows:
         A. On any public sidewalk within the area of the 500 and 600 Block of
1st Avenue, the 100 Block of 7th Street, the 100 Block of Waterfront Drive, the
block between 1st Avenue and South Avenue on Waterfront Drive, the South Avenue
Municipal Parking area and the 500 Block of South Avenue including the Depot
and Community Building parking areas and sidewalks between the hours of 8:00
A.M. and 6:00 P.M.
         B. On private property of another within the area described in
Subparagraph A, above, without the express permission of the owner or tenant of
the owner of said property.
         C. By attaching the skateboard or person of the operator to any
motorized vehicle.
         D. Upon a State highway in the City.
      Subd. 4. Any person who violates any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The minimum fine for a violation of this Section
shall be $25.00. In addition, any peace officer who observes any person
violating any of the provisions of this Section is authorized to seize the
offender's skateboard or roller skates and to hold the same at the Police
Station. In the event of such seizure, the offender, if an adult, may secure
the return of the article seized after three days have elapsed since the
seizure. In the case of a minor, the article that is seized shall be returned
only to the parent or guardian of such minor offender after three days have
elapsed since the seizure.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 8.41 through 8.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 8.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
      Subd. 1. Where the specific section, subdivision, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he/she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he/she shall
be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he/she stands convicted of violation of
any provision of this Chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing
or parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediate preceding 12-month
period for the third or subsequent time, he/she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor.
      Subd. 2. As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of Subdivision 1 hereof, he/she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
      Subd. 3. As to any violation of a provision adopted by reference, he/she
shall be punished as specified in such provision, so adopted.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 9
PARKING REGULATIONS
(SEE
CHAPTER 7 FOR DEFINITIONS, SCOPE AND APPLICATION RELATING TO THIS CHAPTER)
SECTION 9.01. PRESUMPTION.  
   As to any vehicle parking in violation of Chapters
7,
8 and
9 when the driver thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner
or lessee of such vehicle parked the same, or that the driver was acting as the
agent of the owner or lessee.
SEC. 9.02. GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.  
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places: (1) on a sidewalk; (2) in front of a public or private
driveway; (3) within an intersection; (4) within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
(5) on a crosswalk; (6) within twenty feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
(7) in a sign-posted fire lane; (8) within thirty feet upon the approach to any
flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic control signal located at the side of a
roadway; (9) within fifty feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing; (10)
within twenty feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the side
of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within seventy-five feet
of said entrance when properly sign-posted; (11) alongside or opposite any
street excavation or obstruction when such stopping, standing or parking would
obstruct traffic; (12) on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at
the edge or curb of a street; (13) upon any bridge or other elevated structure
upon a street; (14) at any place where official signs prohibit or restrict
stopping, parking or both; (15) in any alley, except for loading or unloading
and then only so long as reasonably necessary for such loading and unloading to
or from adjacent premises; or, (16) on any boulevard which has been curbed, any
vehicle parked in violation of this Section for more than seventy-two (72)
hours shall be towed at the owner's expense.
Source: Ordinance No. 17      Source: Ordinance No. 31      Source: Ordinance
No. 61
Effective Date: 02-11-2004      Effective Date: 02-22-2006      Effective Date:
07-14-2011
SEC. 9.03. RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARKING.
      Subd. 1. Definition. The term "recreational camping vehicle" means any of
the following:
         A. "Travel Trailer" - A vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational,
and vacation uses, permanently identified "Travel Trailer" by the manufacturer
of the trailer.
         B. "Pick-up Coach" - A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
         C. "Motor Home" - A portable, temporary building to be used for
travel, recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
         D. "Camping Trailer" - A folding structure, mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreation and vacation uses.
         E. "Other Recreational Equipment" - Includes but is not limited to
boats, snowmobiles, jet skis, all-terrain vehicles, go-carts, mud trucks, stock
cars, buses, truck toppers, enclosed box trailers, golf carts, side-by-sides
and any trailer capable of carrying any of the foregoing items of equipment.
      Subd. 2. Unlawful Act. It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a
recreational camping vehicle on or within the limits of any street or right-of-
way for a continuous period in excess of 72 hours, except where signs are
erected designating the place as a campsite or in a mobile home park. Provided,
however, that during such 72-hour period, such vehicle shall not be occupied as
living quarters.
Source: Ordinance No. 96
Effective Date: 04-10-2014
SEC. 9.04. UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned, leased or under
the control of such person into any prohibited area or away from a curb such
distance as is unlawful.
SEC. 9.05. DIRECTION TO PROCEED.  
   It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
SEC. 9.06. PARALLEL PARKING.  
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb or
street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of them, each vehicle stopped or
parked upon a two-way road where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within
twelve inches of, the right-hand curb, and, where painted markings appear on
the curb or the street, such vehicle shall be within such markings, front and
rear; provided that upon a one-way roadway all vehicles shall be so parked,
except that the left-hand wheels of the vehicle may be parallel with and within
twelve inches from the left-hand curb, but the front of the vehicle in any
event and with respect to the remainder of the vehicle, shall be in the
direction of the flow of traffic upon such one-way street; and it is unlawful
to park in violation of this Section.
SEC. 9.07. ANGLE PARKING.  
   Where angle parking has been established by Council resolution, and is
allowed, as shown by curb or street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of
them, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be at an angle of approximately 45
to 60 degrees with the front wheel touching the curb and within any parking
lines painted on the curb or street, provided that the front wheel not touching
the curb shall be the portion of the vehicle furthest in the direction of one-
way traffic; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this Section.
SEC. 9.08. STREETS WITHOUT CURB.  
   Upon streets not having a curb each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the
street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this Section.
SEC. 9.09. PARKING HOURS.  
   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows:
      Subd. 1. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
      Subd. 2. The Chief of Police may, when authorized by resolution of the
Council, designate certain streets, blocks or portions of streets or blocks as
prohibited parking zones, or five-minute, ten-minute, fifteen-minute, thirty-
minute, one-hour, two-hour, four-hour, six-hour, eight-hour, morning or
afternoon rush hour limited parking zones and shall mark by appropriate signs
any zones so established. Such zones shall be established whenever necessary
for the convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a
free flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave
standing any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in
excess of the sign-posted limitation, or during sign-posted hours of prohibited
parking.
      Subd. 3. It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or otherwise
obliterate any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a vehicle by a
police officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time such vehicle has
been parked.
      Subd. 4.  For the purpose of enforcement of this Section, any vehicle
moved to a location less than one block from the previous location in any
limited time parking zone shall be deemed to have remained stationary.
(Sections 9.10 through 9.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 9.20. SNOW REMOVAL.  
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Section
9.02 hereof, it is unlawful to park or leave any vehicle on any street between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. every day from November 1 of each year to
April 30 of the year next following. If snow has fallen, the prohibited hours
on any street shall be from 2:00 a.m. to such time as snow plowing curb-to-curb
has been completed on such street, unless otherwise directed by resolution of
the Council.
Source: Ordinance No. 61
Effective Date: 07-14-2011
SEC. 9.21. TRUCK PARKING.
      Subd. 1. Definitions.  For the purpose of this Section, definitions
contained in Minnesota Statutes, Section 168.011 shall be adopted by reference.
      Subd. 2. Prohibited Parking. No trucks, farm trucks, semi-trailers, fifth
wheel trailers, special mobile equipment, truck tractors, buses, or other
vehicles exceeding a gross vehicle capacity of 9,000 pounds shall be parked on
any City street in any residential district except as further provided in this
Section. Pickup trucks and vans rated under 9,000 gross vehicle capacity are
exempt from the provisions of this Section.
      Subd. 3. Recreational Vehicles/Equipment. It is unlawful to park
recreational vehicles/equipment on any street, avenue or alley other than on a
temporary basis (defined as less than 24 consecutive hours) once in any seven
consecutive calendar day period. Violators may be ticketed and/or towed at the
owner’s expense. This shall not apply to:
         A.  Construction trailers/equipment while temporarily engaged in
building or remodeling with a valid permit.
         B.  To towed trailers while the driver of the towing vehicle is
engaged in the performance of his/her usual trade or occupation.
         C.  Emergency or utility services engaged in temporary performance of
duties.
         D.  Persons violating this subdivision shall be subject to penalties
as described in Section
9.99.
      Subd. 4. Exceptions. This Section shall not prohibit vehicles, as
described above, from short-term parking while actively loading, unloading, or
performing a service in a residential district and associated with specific
property in such district so long as the short-term parking shall not exceed
two hours in length. In addition, there shall be excepted from the requirements
of this Section, trucks, tractors and semi-trailers which are in use pursuant
to bona fide construction projects on the site, which are moving occupants into
or out of a home, or engaged in the performance of services at a residence
which would require the presence of such vehicles for more than two consecutive
hours. Further, vehicles being used by a public utility to service public
utilities in the residential district shall also be exempted.
      Subd. 5. Penalty. Every person who violates this Section shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and be punished accordingly. Any violation of this Section
shall be deemed continuing in nature and may be treated as a new and separate
offense on each day during which such violation occurs.
Source: City Code            Source: Ordinance No. 96
Effective Date: 06-01-2000      Effective Date: 04-10-2014
(Sections 9.22 through 9.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 9.30. LOADING ZONES.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish loading zones to be used for the
specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise from a commercial vehicle
or vehicle temporarily being utilized in the transport of merchandise. Such
loading zones shall be installed by order of the City Administrator where in
the judgment of the Council a commercial loading zone is justified, and duly
sign-posted.
SEC. 9.31. UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, leave standing, or park a motor
vehicle with the motor running, within the City limits, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a
police officer or traffic control device, and except in such areas as may be
designated by resolution of the Council.
SEC. 9.32. VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service such
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than 24 hours.
SEC. 9.33. PARKING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING OR SELLING MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street for the
purpose of advertising such vehicle for sale, for the purpose of advertising
for sale or selling merchandise thereon or therein, or advertising any
merchandise for sale or a forthcoming event.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 9.34 through 9.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 9.40. PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PARKING.
      Subd. 1. Statutory parking privileges for physically handicapped shall be
strictly observed and enforced. Police officers [and trained citizen
volunteers] are authorized to tag vehicles on either private or public property
in violation of such statutory privileges.
      Subd. 2. It is unlawful for any person, whether or not physically
handicapped, to stop, park, or leave standing, a motor vehicle (1) in a sign-
posted fire lane at any time, or (2) in lanes where, and during such hours as,
parking is prohibited to accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon
rush hours.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 9.41 through 9.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 9.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
      Subd. 1. Where the specific section, subdivision, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he/she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances
so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, he/she shall
be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he/she stands convicted of violation of
any provision of this Chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing
or parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediate preceding l2-month
period for the third or subsequent time, he/she shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor.
      Subd. 2. As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of Subdivision l hereof, he/she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 10
PUBLIC PROTECTION, CRIMES AND OFFENSES
SECTION 10.01. STORAGE, DEPOSIT AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         A. "Refuse" - Includes all organic material resulting from the
manufacture, preparation or serving of food or food products, and spoiled,
decayed or waste foods from any source, bottles, cans, glassware, paper or
paper products, crockery, ashes, rags, and discarded clothing, tree or lawn
clippings, leaves, weeds and other waste products, except human waste or waste
resulting from building construction or demolition.
         B. "Residential Dwelling" - Any single building consisting of one
through four dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
         C. "Multiple Dwelling" - Any building used for residential purposes
consisting of more than four dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities
for each.
         D. "Commercial Establishment" - Any premises where a commercial or
industrial enterprise of any kind is carried on, and shall include restaurants,
clubs, churches, and schools where food is prepared or served.
      Subd. 2. Storage.
         A. It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on residential
dwelling premises for more than one week. All such storage shall be in five to
thirty gallon metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting covers, which
shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition; provided, that tree
leaves, weeds and grass clippings may be stored in plastic bags and tree limbs
must be stored in bundles weighing no more than seventy-five pounds and no
longer than four feet.
         B. It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on multiple dwelling
premises for more than one week. Such storage shall be in containers as for
residential dwelling premises, except that so-called "dumpsters" with close-
fitting covers may be substituted.
         C. It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on commercial
establishment premises for more than forty-eight hours. Such storage shall be
in containers as for residential dwelling premises, except that so-called
"dumpsters" with close-fitting covers may be substituted.
         D. It is unlawful to store organic refuse unless it is drained and
wrapped.
      Subd. 3. Deposit. It is unlawful for any person to deposit refuse from
any source, rubbish, offal, or the body of a dead animal, in any place other
than a sanitary landfill.
      Subd. 4. Fire Danger. It is unlawful for any person to store, deposit or
dispose of any refuse which is in flames or heated to the point where it could
cause danger of fire in other refuse.
      Subd. 5. Disposal. The Council may, by resolution, adopt, and from time
to time amend, adjust and revise such rules, regulations, rates and charges as
it deems necessary or proper for the operation and management of a sanitary
landfill. It may give notice of any such action as it deems necessary.
SEC. 10.02. MAINTENANCE OF INDIVIDUAL SEWERAGE SYSTEMS.  
   It is unlawful for the owner or tenant of any premises to permit an
individual sewage disposal system to overflow, or expose the contents thereof
above ground.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 10.03 through 10.09, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.10. ANIMAL LICENSING AND REGULATION.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. For the purposes of this Section:
         A. “Animal” - Includes all mammals, reptiles and fowl kept, harbored,
controlled or owned by a person or persons residing in Two Harbors or business
or licenses doing business in Two Harbors.
         B. “Animal control authority” - The Lake County Humane Society’s lead
animal control officer or designees.
         C. “Animal control officer” - Any employee or volunteer as designated
by the Lake County Humane Society who is responsible for animal control
enforcement within the City.
         D. “Cat” - Includes any male or female domesticated feline animal.
         E. “City” - The City of Two Harbors.
         F. “City Council” - The City Council of the City of Two Harbors.
         G. “Dog” - Includes any male or female domesticated dog animal.
         H. “Dangerous dog” and “potentially dangerous dog” - Shall be defined
as stated in Minnesota Statutes, Section 347.50 (2011), as it may be amended
from time to time.
         I. “Owner-guardian” - Any person keeping or harboring an animal for
five consecutive days shall, for the purposes of this Section, be deemed to be
an owner-guardian thereof.
         J. “Service dog” - Service dog means any dog that is individually
trained to do work or perform tasks for the benefit of an individual with a
disability, including a physical, sensory, psychiatric, intellectual, or other
mental disability.
      Subd. 2. Impoundment - Authorized; Redemption Fee of Certain Dogs.
         A. Police officers and animals control officers shall have the
authority to seize, take up and impound all animals:
            1. Which may be found running at large by that officer or a private
citizen contrary to the provisions of this Section. It shall also be the duty
of the animal control officers to see that animals required to be licensed are
in fact so licensed;
            2. Which constitutes animal cruelty pursuant to Minnesota Statues,
Section 343.01, et. seq., (2011) as it may be amended from time to time;
            3. Which constitute a nuisance under this Section;
         B. The animal control officer shall provide notice to an owner-
guardian of the impoundment whenever possible and shall hold such animals until
they are claimed by their owner-guardian or until disposed of in accordance
with this Section. All unclaimed animals shall be held for not less than five
business days before being disposed of by the animal control authority.
         C. Any animal impounded under the provisions of this Section shall be
released only upon proof that it has been vaccinated in accordance with Section
10.11, Subd. 2, Vaccination Requirements, and the payment of the expenses of
taking and keeping the animal (“Impound and Boarding Fee”). The impound and
boarding fee shall be set by the City Council by resolution. If the animal is
unlicensed, in addition to the applicable impound and boarding fee, the animal
shall not be released without payment of the prescribed license fee. The City
Council shall set the amount of the license fee by resolution.
         D. If it is the opinion of a licensed veterinarian that a critically
injured or diseased animal will unnecessarily suffer, such animal may be
humanely euthanized prior to the five day holding period even though attempts
to locate or notify the owner-guardian have been unsuccessful. The owner-
guardian shall be responsible for the cost of euthanization and/or the
reasonable costs of the care and treatment.
         E. The animal control officer shall provide necessary and humane care
for all animals impounded and the expenses thereof shall be paid by the owner-
guardian or the person claiming the same.
      Subd. 3. Disposal After Five Business Days.
         A. After the waiting period prescribed by Subd. 2, the animal control
authority may make provision for the humane euthanasia or adoption of such
animals which remain unclaimed.
         B. The animal control authority may dispose of other animals, for
which the waiting period is not applicable, immediately.
         C. The Lake County Humane Society shall, by formal board action,
recommend to the City Council for approval fees for animal control services
required to be performed by this Section. Such fees may include, but are not
limited to disposal fees, placement fees and service calls within and without
the City. All such fees shall be collected by the Lake County Humane Society on
behalf of the City and be promptly remitted to the City.
      Subd. 4. Dogs and Cats Adopted; Spaying or Neutering Required.
         A. All dogs and cats placed for adoption by the Lake County Humane
Society or other non-profit organizations such as: animal humane societies,
animal placement agencies or animal rescue groups, must be spayed or neutered
prior to the adopting party taking possession of the animal. In addition, every
adopted animal must be examined by a licensed veterinarian and vaccinated
against rabies if over four months old. Animals known to be infected with a
contagious disease or condition shall not be placed for adoption until the
animal is in good health and no longer contagious.
         B. The animal control authority is authorized to establish a
cooperative program to perform sterilizations and vaccinations pursuant to this
Section before the adopting party takes custody of an animal.
         C. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to authorize the animal
control authority to sterilize an animal that has been reclaimed by its owner-
guardian, or for which the period to reclaim as owner-guardian has not expired.
         D. Upon review of the adoption application the animal control
authority is authorized to deny an adopting party an animal if the adopting
party demonstrated an unwillingness or inability to abide by terms of the
adoption agreement and/or this Section.
         E. At the close of each adoption of an animal, the animal adoption
organization shall give the adopting party a certificate containing a
description of the animal adopted, health records for the animal, the amount of
the adoption fee and the names and addresses of both the adoption organization
and adopting party. Copies of the above adoption information must be kept for a
period of two years and open for inspection by the animal control authority.
      Subd. 5. Obstructing Animal Control Officer; Breaking Into Public Animal
Shelter.
         A. No person shall intentionally obstruct, hinder, prevent or
interfere with an animal control officer or shelter volunteer while the officer
or volunteer is engaged in the performance of animal control duties.
         B. No person shall break open or in any manner, directly or
indirectly, assist in breaking open any animal shelter in the city, release or
attempt to release there from any animal impounded.
         C. No person except for the animal control authority shall release or
cause to be released any animal impounded at the Lake County Humane Society.
      Subd. 6. License Required.  No person within the city shall own or
possess any dog or cat over eight weeks of age without obtaining a license
therefor and having complied with the provisions set forth in this Section.
      Subd. 7. Licensing Fees.
         A. The owner-guardian of a dog or cat shall pay a yearly license fee
for each such dog or cat. The City Council shall, by resolution, set such
license fees.
         B. Any properly identified service dog shall be issued a dog license
at no charge upon providing proof of certification of training as a service
dog.
      Subd. 8. License Application.
         A. Dog or cat licenses may be obtained at the Lake County Humane
Society or at the City Hall of the City during regular business hours.
         B. Before the first day of January of each year, it shall be the duty
of the City to send to all dog or cat owners who hold a valid license a notice
that licenses required herein are due on January first and informing such
persons of the penalties for failure to procure such license. Dog and cat
licenses shall be issued on a yearly basis. Each license shall be in effect
beginning on the first day of January and expiring on the last day of December
of that calendar year. All dog and cat licenses issued after the first day of
January and before the last day of December shall expire on the last day of
December of that same calendar year. License fees for new residents owning a
cat or dog are due and payable when such owner begins residency.
         C. When application is made for a license on a spayed female, or a
neutered male, said application shall require the owner-guardian to supply the
name, age, breed, sex, color and markings, and present a statement from a
qualified veterinarian to the effect that the operation was performed and
giving the date thereof.
         D. Owner-guardians or persons claiming an impounded and unlicensed cat
or dog shall complete a license application and purchase a cat or dog license
prior to the release of the animal subject to the vaccination requirements of
Section 10.11, Subd, 2, Vaccination Requirements.
      Subd. 9. Tag--Duplicates, Transferability. When a license is issued under
the provisions of this Section, the animal control authority shall deliver to
the person securing the same a metal tag, bearing the number of the license and
the year thereof. The shape and style of such tag shall be changed each year.
Duplicate metal tags, in case of loss, may be issued by the animal control
authority for the fees set forth in this Section. The City Council shall, by
resolution, set the fee amount to obtain a duplicate metal tag. No tag shall be
transferred from one dog or cat to another.
      Subd. 10. Tag Attached to Collar; Removal of Collar or Tag Prohibited. No
person owning, possessing or harboring any dog or cat shall permit the same to
be outside its owner's dwelling without a substantial collar of leather or
other durable material to which collar shall be securely attached the metal
license tag. No person shall remove the collar or tag from any dog or cat
without the consent of the person to whom the license for such dog or cat is
issued.
      Subd. 11. Establishment of Fees. All fees and charges for matters
governed by this Section, other than any adoption fee referenced in Subd. 4 of
Section 10.10, shall be set by resolution of the City Council based on a
recommendation by the Lake County Humane Society.
Source: Ordinance No. 75
Effective Date: 06-29-2012
SEC. 10.11. RABIES CONTROL.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. For the purposes of this Section:
         A. “Rabies control authority” - Refers to and means any duly
authorized person or persons responsible for the enforcement of this Section in
accordance with the directions of the Lake County Health Department.
         B. “Vaccination against rabies” - Refers to and means the inoculation
of a dog or cat with a rabies vaccine. Such vaccination shall be performed by a
veterinarian duly licensed to practice veterinary medicine.
      Subd. 2. Vaccination Requirements.
         A. Every dog or cat six months of age and older, shall be vaccinated
against rabies.
         B. Every dog or cat which is not vaccinated at the time of its
acquisition or transportation into the city shall be vaccinated within thirty
(30) days of acquisition or arrival, whichever is applicable, unless such dog,
cat is under six months of age.
         C. Every dog or cat shall be revaccinated thereafter in accordance
with the current "Compendium of Animal Rabies Vaccines, Part II: Vaccines
Marketed in U.S. and NASPHV recommendations," prepared by the National
Association of State Public Health Veterinarians, Inc.
      Subd. 3. Vaccination Identification. A metal or durable plastic current
rabies vaccination tag, issued by the attending veterinarian, shall be securely
attached to the collar or harness of the dog or cat by the owner-guardian.
Whenever the dog or cat is out of doors, whether on or off the owner's
premises, the collar or harness with the vaccination tag must be worn. In
addition, the owner-guardian may be requested to provide a current certificate
of rabies vaccination issued by the veterinarian.
      Subd. 4. Vaccination Cost. The cost of rabies vaccination shall be borne
by the owner-guardian of the dog or cat, whichever is applicable.
      Subd. 5. Handling of Dogs or Cats Bitten by Rabid Animals.
         A. The following rules shall apply in the case of dogs or cats known
to have been bitten by rabid animals. For the purposes of this Section, any
bat, skunk, civet cat, raccoon or fox that bites a dog or cat shall be deemed a
rabid animal, unless proven otherwise.
         B. If the bitten (exposed) dog or cat has not been vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this Section, said bitten exposed dog or cat
shall be euthanized immediately. If the owner-guardian is unwilling to
euthanize the bitten (exposed) dog or cat said animal shall be placed in strict
isolation in a veterinary hospital under veterinary supervision for a minimum
period of six (6) months. Before release of the dog or cat to its owner-
guardian, it shall be vaccinated against rabies one (1) month prior to its
release at the owner's expense.
         C. If the bitten (exposed) dog or cat has been vaccinated in
accordance with the provisions of this Section, said bitten dog or cat shall be
revaccinated immediately and shall be placed in strict isolation in a
veterinary hospital under veterinary supervision for a minimum period of forty
(40) days following revaccination. If the bitten (exposed) dog or cat is not
revaccinated immediately, it shall be placed in strict isolation in a
veterinary hospital under veterinary supervision for a minimum period of six
(6) months.
      Subd. 6. Impoundment of Dogs or Cats Without Valid Rabies Vaccination
Tags.
         A. Any dog or cat found off the owner's premises and not wearing a
valid rabies vaccination tag may be impounded. All impounded dogs or cats shall
be given proper care and maintenance.
         B. Impoundment of all animals shall be in accordance with the
provisions of this Section. Each dog or cat impounded pursuant to this Section
shall be kept at least five (5) days after the impoundment thereof, unless
conditionally reclaimed by its owner-guardian as herein provided. Any dog or
cat which is impounded pursuant to this Section may be conditionally reclaimed
by its owner-guardian by payment of the applicable impound and boarding fee and
by compliance with the rabies vaccination requirements of this Section within
seventy-two (72) hours of release.
         C. Upon claiming any dog or cat which has not previously been
vaccinated, the owner-guardian shall make a cash deposit with the animal
control authority, which shall be refunded upon the owner-guardian filing proof
that the dog or cat has been vaccinated within seventy-two (72) hours of
release; otherwise the cash deposit shall be forfeited. The City Council shall,
by resolution, set the amount of the cash deposit.
         D. If the owner-guardian of a dog or cat impounded because of the
absence of a valid rabies vaccination tag claims that his or her animal has
been vaccinated, such owner-guardian may reclaim his or her dog or cat upon
production of proof of vaccination, payment of the applicable impound and
boarding fee and acquisition of a valid rabies vaccination tag.
         E. If a dog or cat impounded pursuant to this Section is unclaimed by
its owner-guardian at the end of five (5) days, such animal may be disposed of
in accordance with provisions of this Section.
      Subd. 7. Impound Fees. Impoundment fees shall be borne by the owner-
guardian as provided in this Section.
      Subd. 8. Biting; Quarantine.  
         A.  When any person has been bitten by a dog or cat the owner-guardian
or custodian of the dog or cat having been so notified, shall immediately
quarantine the dog or cat at owner's home or other suitable place of
confinement within the City or such other place as directed by the animal
control authority. If a dog or cat which has bitten is running at large and has
been apprehended by the animal control officer and if, upon apprehension, the
dog or cat not wearing a rabies vaccination tag or other identification which
reasonably reveals its ownership, the animal control officer, after
consultation with the rabies control authority, may impound the dog or cat
until the ten (10) day quarantine period is completed.
         B. If the dog or cat has not been claimed after five (5) days, the
animal control authority shall keep the dog or cat impounded for the full
quarantine period. The period of quarantine shall commence immediately after a
person has been bitten and such period shall last for ten (10) consecutive days
thereafter. If on or before the tenth day the dog or cat shows clinical signs
suggestive of rabies, the dog or cat, after consulting with the rabies control
authority, may be euthanized and submitted to the rabies control authority for
rabies examination.
         C. It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the
animal control authority every diagnosis of an animal suspected of being rabid.
Source: Ordinance No. 75
Effective Date: 06-29-2012
SEC. 10.12. KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. For the purposes of this Section:
         A. “Estrus” - A periodic state of sexual excitability during which the
female animal is willing to mate with the male and is capable of becoming
pregnant.
         B. “ Nuisance” - The word “nuisance” shall mean:
            1. An owner-guardian allowing the accumulation of animal feces in
an open outside area or inside a structure causing unpleasant, offensive odors
to reasonably cause the annoyance of another person or persons;
            2. An owner-guardian allowing or failing to prevent the animal from
continually and/or repeatedly causing the disturbance by loud and frequent or
habitual vocalizations;
            3. An owner-guardian allowing or failing to prevent the animal from
continually and/or repeatedly causing damage to property of one other than the
owner-guardian.
         C. “Tether” - To secure an animal by means of a metallic cable, rope,
or other material to a fixed object, thereby confining the animal to a
specified area.
      Subd. 2. Nuisance. No person shall keep any animal in such a manner as to
constitute a nuisance.
      Subd. 3. Animal Noise.
         A. No person shall harbor or keep any dog, which, by loud and frequent
or habitual barking, yelping or howling, shall cause unreasonable annoyance of
another person or persons.
         B. It shall be unlawful for any person harboring or keeping any animal
when that animal creates any noise which is plainly audible to any person,
including animal control officers and licensed police officers, at the property
line of the building or premises where the animal is being kept and which noise
occurs repeatedly over at least a seven (7) minute period in duration.
      Subd. 4. Animal Interference.
         A. No person shall harbor or keep any animal, which shall cause
annoyance to people passing upon the streets, sidewalks or other public places
in the City by physical interference with any such people.
         B. Persons owning or harboring a restrained animal on private property
shall further restrict the animal on that private property in a manner which
prevents that animal from having physical contact with an invitee when that
animal has bitten or acted in an aggressive and vicious manner which prohibited
safe passage of an invitee. Invitees shall have the right of safe passage onto
private property for the purpose to perform their assigned duties.
         An invitee for the purposes of this Section shall include but is not
limited to the following: United States postal workers, City employees, state
and county employees, parcel post delivery persons, food and product delivery
persons and newspaper delivery persons, acting within the scope of their
assigned duties and required to enter onto private property for the purpose of
performing these duties.
         C. Tethering. No animal shall be tethered so as to allow it access to
any public sidewalk, public alley or public street.
      Subd. 5. Trespassing or Damage to Property by Animals Prohibited.
         A. No owner-guardian or person having charge of any animal shall allow
the same to enter or remain upon the property of another person without the
consent of that person.
         B. No owner-guardian or person having charge of any animal shall allow
the same to commit damage to property of one other than the owner's.
      Subd. 6. Running at Large Prohibited. No owner-guardian or person having
charge of any animal shall permit any animal to run at large within the City.
Except as authorized in this Section, an animal shall be considered to be at
large if:
         A. The animal departs from the private property of the owner-guardian
or other person caring for that animal and is not under physical control of the
owner-guardian, a member of the immediate family or other responsible person
caring for that animal. If the animal is under control by a leash, the leash
must be of suitable strength not exceeding six feet in length.
         B. The animal remains on the private property of the owner-guardian or
other person caring for that animal and the animal is not effectively contained
within a fenced area (including an area surrounded with an underground
electronic fencing system), or when the animal is on any unfenced area or lot
abutting a street, alley, public park, school grounds or public place without
being effectively tethered to a fixed object.
         C. An animal is not in violation of this Section if:
            1. Such animal remains on the private property of the owner-
guardian or other person caring for that animal and a competent person is
outside with the animal and that animal is immediately obedient to that
person's command;
            2. Such animal is tethered in accordance with this Section;
            3. Such animal is a police animal engaged in activities by the
City;
            4. Such animal is a tracking animal and is being used by or with
the permission of the City;
            5. Such animal is a service dog serving a disabled person.
         D. Underground electronic fencing system.
            1. An underground electronic fencing system used to restrain an
animal on private property shall keep an electronically restrained animal a
minimum distance of ten (10) feet from any adjacent public sidewalk, public
alley or public street.
            2. An animal designated as being a dangerous animal or a
potentially dangerous animal under Minnesota Statutes, Section 347.50 shall not
be primarily restrained by an underground electronic fencing system.
            3. The property owner or person in control of the property
operating an underground electronic fencing system for the purpose of
restraining an animal shall be required to maintain the underground electronic
fencing system in an effective and proper working order.
         E. A person using a fencing system as the primary means of restraint
for an animal may not continue to use the fencing system as the primary means
of restraint for that animal if that animal has been found to be running at
large.
      Subd. 7. Animal Litter.
         A. The owner-guardian of any animal or any person having the custody
or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces of the
animal and disposing of such feces in a sanitary manner.
         B. It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring an
animal to cause said animal to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by such person without having in his/her immediate possession a
device for the removal of feces and depository for the transfer of animal feces
to a receptacle located on property owned or possessed by such person. A device
may include a plastic or paper bag, which is used to recover animal feces.
         C. It is unlawful for any person in control of, causing or permitting
any animal to be on any property, public or private, not owned or possessed by
such person to fail to remove feces left by such animal to a proper receptacle
located on the property owned or possessed by such person.
         D. For the purposes of this Subdivision, the term public property
includes, without limitation; streets, sidewalks, boardwalks, trails,
boulevards, playgrounds and parks.
         E. The provisions of this Subdivision shall not apply to the ownership
or use of any properly identified service dog, animals when used in police
activities by the city, or tracking animals when used by or with the permission
of the City.
      Subd. 8. Female Animal in Estrus. Every female animal in estrus shall be
kept confined within a building in such a manner that the animal cannot come in
contact with any intact male animal except for proper breeding purposes within
the building. The female animal in estrus may be taken from the confined area
on a secure leash controlled by a person of sufficient age or into a confined
outdoor enclosure within the owner's property in order for the animal to
urinate and/or defecate.
      Subd. 9. Maximum Number of Animals.  
         A. No more than three dogs of over the age of eight weeks shall be
kept, harbored or maintained within any individual dwelling unit or on any lot
or other parcel of property in the City without a maximum dog exception
license. The number of dogs permitted above may be increased by obtaining such
license issued by the animal control authority. Such license shall specify any
restrictions, limitations, conditions or prohibitions which the animal control
authority deems reasonably necessary to protect any person or neighboring use
from unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise or odors, or annoyance, or to
protect the public health or safety. Such license may be modified from time to
time or revoked by the animal control authority for failure to conform to such
restrictions, limitations or prohibitions. Such modification or revocation
shall be effective from and after ten days following the mailing of written
notice thereof by certified mail to the person or persons keeping or
maintaining such dogs;
         B. No more than three (3) cats of over the age of eight (8) weeks
shall be kept, harbored or maintained within any individual dwelling unit or on
any lot or other parcel of property in the City without a maximum cat exception
license. The number of cats permitted above may be increased by obtaining such
license issued by the animal control authority. Such license shall specify any
restrictions, limitations, conditions or prohibitions which the animal control
authority deems reasonably necessary to protect any person or neighboring use
from unsanitary conditions, unreasonable noise or odors, or annoyance, or to
protect the public health or safety. Such license may be modified from time to
time or
revoked by the animal control authority for failure to conform to such
restrictions, limitations or prohibitions. Such modification or revocation
shall be effective from and after ten (10) days following the mailing of
written notice thereof by certified mail to the person or persons keeping or
maintaining such cats;
         C. License application. Maximum dog and/or cat exception licenses
shall be issued on a yearly basis. Each license shall be in effect beginning on
the first day of January and expiring on the last day of December of that
calendar year. All such licenses issued after the first day of January and
before the last day of December shall expire on the last day of December of
that same calendar year. The City Council shall, by resolution, set such
license fees. Those owner guardians who have in excess of three (3) licensed
dogs and/or three (3) licensed cats prior to the effective date of this Section
may apply and will be automatically granted a maximum dog and/or cat exception
license for those dogs and/or cats. Those owner-guardians not in compliance
with the license requirements on the effective date of this Section, even if
they are over the approved amount, are allowed a sixty (60) day amnesty period
from the effective date of this section to get their dogs and/or cats licensed.
After licensing and within the sixty (60) day period, owner-guardians may keep
their dogs and/or cats until such dogs and/or cats are transferred to a new
owner-guardian or until such dogs and/or cats pass away.
         D. Any owner-guardian denied a maximum dog and/or cat exception
license or having such license revoked may appeal the decision to the City
Administrator who will review the decision and determine the validity of such
license denial and determine what, if any, other course of action to take.
         E. Any owner-guardian aggrieved by a decision of the City
Administrator may appeal to the City Council by filing written notice of said
appeal to the City Administrator within fifteen (15) days after the City
Administrator's decision is rendered.
      Subd. 10. Prohibited Acts - Animal Cruelty/Abuse/Neglect. Situations
involving animal cruelty, abuse, and/or neglect shall be governed by the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section 343.20, et. seq., (2011) as it may be
amended from time to time.
      Subd. 11. Dangerous Dogs or Potentially Dangerous Dogs. Situations
involving dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs shall be governed by the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section 347.50, et. seq., (2011) as it may be
amended from time to time.
      Subd. 12. Vehicular Transport and Containment.
         A. Transport of any dog or cat in the bed of a pickup truck or other
motorized vehicle with similar attributes of open cargo areas is prohibited
unless the dog or cat is properly secured and confined inside of a commercially
designed container intended for the safe transport of dog and cats or otherwise
secured so as not to allow the dog or cat the ability to escape or be thrown
from said vehicle.
         B. No person within the City shall leave an animal in an unattended
motor vehicle without provision of adequate ventilation, cooling or heating,
and water. Vehicles containing animals adjudged to be in distress may -when
attempts to contact the vehicle owner have failed - be entered by proper
authorities when in their judgment said animals are perceived to be in peril.
Animals removed under such actions will be taken to the Lake County Humane
Society until such issue can be resolved.
Source: Ordinance No. 75
Effective Date: 06-29-2012
SEC. 10.13. FARM ANIMALS AND NON-DOMESTICATED ANIMALS.
      Subd. 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to prohibit the keeping
of non-domesticated animals as pets within the City in order to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the general public. The City Council finds that
non-domesticated animals kept as pets in an urban setting present a substantial
risk of harm to the general public; can increase the likelihood of disease
transmission; and can cause public disturbances and health nuisances.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purposes of this Section:
         A. “ Farm animal” - A domesticated species of fowl or hoofed mammal
commonly kept for agricultural purposes, which includes, but is not limited to;
chickens, roosters, pot-bellied pigs, horses, cows, sheep, goats, pigs and
llamas.
         B. “Non-domesticated animal” - Every mammal, fowl and reptile species,
including those born or raised in captivity, except the following:
            1. Domestic dogs (excluding hybrids with wolves, coyotes, or
jackals) properly vaccinated against rabies pursuant to law;
            2. Domestic cats (excluding hybrids with ocelots or margays)
properly vaccinated against rabies pursuant to law;
            3. Rodents, including and limited to; hamsters, mice, gerbils,
white rats or guinea pigs capable of being maintained continuously in cages;
            4. Species of common cage birds;
            5. Fish, unless prohibited by state or federal law; and
            6. Rabbits.
      Subd. 3. The Keeping of Farm Animals or Non-Domesticated Animals
Prohibited.
         A. No person shall own, possess or have custody on his or her premises
any farm animal or non-domesticated animal.
         B. No person shall keep or permit to be kept any farm animal or non-
domesticated animal as a pet.
      Subd. 4. Exceptions.
         A.   Temporary events. A traveling circus, zoological park, or show
which keeps farm animals or non-domesticated animals and is in compliance with
zoning requirements under the Zoning Code of the City Code.
         B.  Permanent exhibits. A zoological park or other institution engaged
in a permanent display of farm animals or non-domesticated animals providing
the use and location of the premises complies with all zoning requirements.
         C. Veterinary hospitals. Any bona fide veterinary hospital, acting
within the scope of its business, is exempt from Section.
         D. Wildlife rehabilitators. Persons keeping farm animals or non-
domesticated animals as part of a bona fide institutional program to return
such animals to the wild are exempt from Section provided the location of the
premises complies with all zoning requirements.
      Subd. 5. Impounding of Farm Animals or Non-Domesticated Animals. The
impoundment of farm animals or non-domesticated animals shall be in accordance
with the applicable impoundment provisions of Section 10.10.
      Subd. 6. Trapping of Non-Domesticated Animals.
         A. It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, hunt, take, kill or
wound any non-domesticated animal within the City except as authorized by
Section 10.15, Hunting Deer by Bow and Arrow, and otherwise authorized by
permit of the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources and the Police
Department.
         B. It shall be unlawful for an owner-guardian of an animal to allow an
animal to hunt, chase, take, kill, or wound any non-domesticated animal within
the City.
         C. Non-domesticated animals needing to be removed from the City shall
be live-trapped and relocated outside of the City, whenever possible.
Source: Ordinance No. 75
Effective Date: 06-29-2012
SEC. 10.14. DEER FEEDING.
      Subd. 1. Purpose. The purpose of this section is to discourage high
white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) densities in the City. The deer
population in the City has likely exceeded natural or pre-settlement deer
densities as natural predators have been displaced from the City and there are
few natural restrictions on the deer population. High deer densities pose a
hazard to motorists, cause a reduction in natural plant life and habitat for
other animals and cause damage to landscaping installed by
residents and commercial landowners. The feeding of deer in the City has been
shown to attract deer in residential areas causing increased damage to
vegetation and landscaping to neighboring properties. High deer densities also
contribute to the spread of chronic diseases among deer populations.
      Subd. 2. Prohibition on Deer Feeding. No person shall feed or allow the
feeding of any deer within any area of the City.
      Subd. 3. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         A. “Agricultural operation” - An operation commonly associated with
the growing of produce on farms. Including but not limited to: field crops, hay
pastures, fruit orchards and landscaping nurseries.
         B. “Feed” or “feeding” - Any provision of grain, grain blocks, fruit,
vegetables, nuts, hay, grasses, salt licks, powder or liquid deer attractants,
bird feed, or other consumable material which may result in deer congregating
at that location on a regular basis, placed either on the ground, in an
obviously intended feeder, or in a feeder at a height of less than five (5)
feet off the ground. Living food sources, such as fruit trees, vegetable
gardens and other live vegetation, shall not be considered as feeding.
         C. “Livestock operation” - An operation commonly associated with the
keeping of farm animals.
         D. “Farm Animals” - Cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, goats,
swine, ponies, ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens, rabbits, guinea hens and honey
bees.
      Subd. 4. Exceptions From Prohibition on Deer Feeding.
         A. Persons on property with an agricultural operation.
         B.  Persons on property with a livestock operation.
      Subd. 5. Enforcement. Any employee or agent of the City who is authorized
to cite another for violation of the City Code and any peace officer is
authorized to enforce this Section.
      Subd. 6. Penalty. The first offense of this section shall be a petty
misdemeanor and the second or more offenses shall be misdemeanors.
Source: Ordinance No. 53
Effective Date: 06-10-2010
SEC. 10.15. HUNTING DEER BY BOW AND ARROW.
      Subd. 1. Purpose and Intent. The purpose and intent of this section is to
allow the hunting of deer by bow and arrow within the City limits in a manner
that gives hunters reasonable guidelines while protecting public safety and the
rights of property owners.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. Except as may otherwise by provided or clearly
implied by context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted
definition. For the purpose of this Section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         A. “Antlerless Deer” - Those without an antler at least three (3)
inches long.
         B. “Application for Archery Permit to Hunt” - The form created by the
Chief of Police that must be submitted to receive a permit to hunt.
         C. “Bow and Arrow” - A bow and arrow or a bow and arrow drawn, held or
released by a mechanical device, but specifically does not include a crossbow.
         D. “Chief of Police” - The Chief of the Police Department or his/her
designee.
         E. “Hunt” or “hunting” - The taking, pursuing, stalking, chasing,
driving or tracking of deer while in possession of a bow and arrow.
         F. “Hunter” - An individual who is eighteen (18) years of age or older
and has been granted a permit to hunt deer by bow and arrow pursuant to this
Section.
         G. “City Hunting Areas” - The locations within the limits of the City
that have been designated by the Chief of Police as areas where hunting by bow
and arrow is allowed and which are identified on the City Hunting Areas Map.
The Chief of Police may revise the City Hunting Areas Map at any time.
         H. “City of Two Harbors Archery Deer Hunt Program Description and
Regulations” - The regulations for the hunting by bow and arrow in the City, as
they may be amended from time to time.
         I. “City of Two Harbors Area Map” - The map designated by the Chief of
Police in accordance with Section
10.15, Subd. 2G.
      Subd. 3. Application.
         A. Any person wishing to hunt deer by bow and arrow within the City
must complete and submit to the Chief of Police an Application for Archery
Permit to Hunt Form and read and sign the City of Two Harbors Archery Deer Hunt
Program Description and Regulations. The Application for Archery Permit to Hunt
form shall request, among other things, the following information:
            1. The length of time for which the permit is requested, which
shall not be greater than the bow hunting deer season established by the State
of Minnesota;
            2. The City of Two Harbors’ deer hunt shall run concurrent with the
State of Minnesota’s archery hunting season;
            3. The location of the property where the Hunter wishes to hunt on
the City Hunting Areas Map;
            4. If the hunter is not the owner of the property, a letter of
permission from the owner or owners of each parcel of land upon which the
hunter desires to hunt granting approval and consent for hunting thereon,
provided, however, that the consent and approval of the owner of tax forfeited
property shall not be required;
            5. Presentation and copy of photo identification;
            6. Proof of a Regular Archery License and at least one (1) State of
Minnesota bonus permit issued by the DNR;
            7. Proof of successful completion of the City Archery Proficiency
Test;
            8. Consent to criminal background check performed by the Police
Department;
            9. The type of bow to be used and the type of arrow to be
discharged; and
            10. Description of a mark to be placed on each arrow near the
fletched end, which must be unique to the hunter, legible and marked in
waterproof ink.
         B. The granting of the permit shall be solely in the discretion of the
Chief of Police who may deny any permit if he/she believes that the issuance of
such permit would constitute or create a safety hazard. The Chief of Police may
limit the number of permits issued for an parcel. Permits for hunting on land
not owned by the hunter may be awarded on a lottery basis. In addition to any
other remedies available to the City, no permit shall be issued to any hunter
who has failed to report the taking of a deer in any prior year.
         C. A permit shall be rescinded if a property owner who provided
written consent withdraws such consent in a writing that is provided to the
Chief of Police.
      Subd. 4. Regulations.
         A. Hunters shall abide by the City Archery Deer Hunt Program
Description and Regulations and shall, in addition, comply with all the rules
and regulations relating to hunting as established by the laws of the State of
Minnesota.
         B. No arrow shall be discharged from a bow within two hundred (200)
feet of any (i) public or commercial building, (ii) public road or trail, (iii)
park, (iv) school, or (v) residence, provided, however, that in the area marked
“100 foot Discharge Area” on the City Hunting Areas Map, no arrow shall be
discharged from a bow within one hundred (100) feet of any (i) public or
commercial building, (ii) public road or trail, (iii) park, (iv) school or (v)
residence.
         C. Hunters shall hunt only in the area that was assigned to the hunter
under the permit issued under this Section.
         D. Hunters shall not attempt to shoot a deer that is beyond the
effective range of the bow being discharged by that particular hunter.
         E. Hunters shall not cause damage to the property of another that
arises from his/her hunting activities.
         F. Hunters shall not leave carcass or entrails to remain in open view
to the public.
         G. Hunters shall first harvest one (1) antlerless deer within the City
before being allowed to receive a permit to harvest an antlered deer.
         H. Any hunter that is successful in taking a deer with a bow and arrow
within the City shall report that fact to the Chief of Police of his/her
designee within twenty-four (24) hours after taking the deer. In addition to
reporting harvested deer to the Chief of Police or his/her designee, the hunter
must also register his/her harvested deer with the Minnesota DNR through the
Big Gam Registration process as prescribed by Minnesota State law.
      Subd. 5. Exceptions.
         A. The provisions of this Section shall not apply to shooting a bow
and arrow or other similar device within the City limits in a Physical
Education Program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty, or a
community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the Chief
of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council.
         B. The provisions of this Section shall not prohibit the use of any
bow and arrow in the lawful defense of the person, property, family or in the
defense or enforcement of the laws of the City, County, State or United States.
         C. The provisions of this Section shall not prohibit the taking of
deer by the Chief of Police or his/her designee by the use of any bow and arrow
or any other weapon authorized by the Chief of Police or his/her designee,
provided, that such taking of deer is made in compliance with all other
applicable State law, rules or regulations.
      Subd. 6. Chief of Police to Report.
         A. Annually in February during the term of this Section, the Chief of
Police shall provide a report to the Council with respect to the operation and
effect of this Section.
         B. This report shall include the number of deer taken, a description
of any incidents, conflicts or problems that occurred with respect to this
Section during the preceding bow hunting season, and any recommendations for
the modifications or the continuation of this Section.
      Subd. 7. Penalty. Any violation of this Section shall constitute a
misdemeanor under the City Code and shall entitle the Chief or his/her designee
to permanently terminate the hunters privilege to hunt within the City.
Source: Ordinance No. 63
Effective Date: 08-25-2011         
(Sections 10.16 through 10.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.20. SHADE TREE PROTECTION AND DISEASE CONTROL.
      Subd. 1. Diseased or Dangerous Conditions of Trees. Upon the discovery of
any destructive or communicable disease or other pestilence to spread disease
or insect infestations, the Tree Inspector shall at once cause written notice
to be served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or
infested tree is situated. The notice shall require the property owner to
eradicate, remove or otherwise control the condition within a reasonable time
specified in the notice.
      Subd. 2. Unlawful Conditions of Private Trees (Nuisance). It is unlawful
for any person to allow the following conditions to exist on their property:
         A. Any tree, shrub, or wood therefrom, having a destructive or
communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers the growth, health,
life or well-being of trees, shrubs or plants in the City or which is capable
of causing an epidemic spread of a communicable disease or insect infestation.
         B. The roots of any tree or shrub, which cause the surface of the
public street, curb or sidewalk to be upheaved or otherwise disturbed.
         C. Any tree, shrub, or portion thereof which, by reason of location or
conditions, constitutes an imminent danger to the health, safety, or well-being
of the general public.
      Subd. 3. Responsibility for Public Nuisance Fixed. Where a nuisance
exists upon property, the owner, occupant or agent, and all other persons
having control of the property on which the nuisance exists, shall be deemed
equally liable for the nuisance.
      Subd. 4. Nuisance Abatement. The City shall serve notice upon the owner,
occupant or agent of any lot, building or premises in or upon which a nuisance
may be found, or upon the person who may be the cause of the nuisance,
requiring the person to abate the nuisance as provided herein. Failure to serve
notice shall not relieve the person from the obligation to abate the nuisance.
      Subd. 5. Expense of Abatement. In case of neglect or refusal of any
person to abate any nuisance, the City may abate the nuisance. The expense of
the abatement shall be collected from the person so offending. The City may
collect the expense of the abatement in the same manner as a special assessment
against the property.
      Subd. 6. Right of Inspection. The Tree Inspector or his/her designee has
the authority to enter onto private property whereon there is located a tree,
shrub, plant or plant part that is suspected to be a public nuisance.
      Subd. 7. Transporting Wood Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
transport elm wood into or through the City unless the same is debarked, or in
the months of April, May or June, to transport oak wood without first securing
a permit from the Tree Inspector. The Forester shall grant a permit only when
the purpose of this Section will be served thereby, and only when no reasonable
alternative is available.
      Subd. 8. Storage of Elm Wood Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to
keep or store elm wood in the City, unless the bark has been removed, between
May 15th and September 15th of each year.
      Subd. 9. Interference With Actions of the Tree Inspector or his/her
Agents. It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the
Tree Inspector, or any of his/her agents, while engaging in and about the
inspecting, planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of
any street trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds as authorized in this
Section.
SEC. 10.21. STORAGE OF WOOD.
      Subd. 1. Definition. "Wood" shall include, but not be limited to,
firewood and lumber, whether rough, pre-cut construction grade or finished,
which is stored or kept on property in the City.
      Subd. 2. Persons Exempt. This Section shall not apply to: (l) persons
having property on which new construction is taking place and the wood on such
property is being used for said construction, unless the said wood has remained
on the property for more than six months and is not a permanent part of the new
construction at the end of that time; (2) persons storing or keeping wood on
property when said wood is stored or kept in neat and secure stacks in a
covered structure impervious to the elements.
      Subd. 3. Conditions of Outside Storage. Wood stored or kept in the City
which is not contained within a covered enclosure impervious to the elements
shall be stored or kept in neat and secure stacks as follows: There is no
minimum width requirement for open stacks under three feet in height. Any open
stacks over three feet in height shall have a height which is no more than
twice its width with a maximum height of nine feet. Stacks shall be no less
than five feet from any side property line on corner lots, 30 feet from any
front property line or any front of a house, whichever is closer and two feet
from any rear property line or any side property line of interior lots. Grass
height around all wood stacks shall be maintained at a maximum height of six
inches.
      Subd. 4. Limited Storage. No more than 20 cords of wood shall be stored
on any residential property.
      Subd. 5. Existing Woodpiles. Any woodpile in existence at the time of the
adoption of this Section, which does not comply with the provisions of this
Section shall be removed or placed in compliance with the terms of this Section
within one year from the date of the adoption of this Section. Notice shall be
in writing and shall be served upon the property owner either in person or by
certified mail.
SEC. 10.22. OPEN BURNING AND AIR POLLUTION CONTROL.
      Subd. 1. Minnesota Statutes Adopted. The provisions of Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 88 are hereby adopted by reference as though set forth
verbatim herein. It is unlawful to violate a provision of this Section or of
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 88, hereby adopted by reference.
      Subd. 2. Fire Warden. The Council shall by resolution designate a Fire
Warden.
      Subd. 3. Violation. It is unlawful for any person to burn or permit the
burning of any grass, weeds, leaves, rubbish or other substance upon premises
owned or occupied by the person, except as otherwise provided by the City Code.
      Subd. 4. Exceptions. The following open burning shall be excepted from
the regulations of this Section.
         A. Fires in barbecue grills or other authorized containers used solely
for the preparation of food. In any structure containing three or more dwelling
units, it is unlawful for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to be kindled
or maintained any fire or open flame on any balcony above ground level, or on
any ground floor patio within 15 feet of said structure, or to store or use any
fuel, barbecue, torch or other similar heating or lighting chemicals or devices
in the locations designated above. These prohibitions do not apply to electric
or gas-fired barbecue grills which are permanently mounted, wired or plumbed to
the building's gas or electrical system and maintain a minimum clearance of 18
inches on all sides (unless listed for lesser clearances by the manufacturer)
when approved by the Fire Warden.
         B. Fires set for the instruction and training of public and industrial
fire fighting personnel when weather conditions are such that resultant smoke
will be carried away from the neighboring residences or other affected property
owners or public roadways, and that such burning will not constitute a fire,
health or traffic hazard, and a special permit has been issued by the Fire
Warden.
         C. Fires set for the elimination of hazards which cannot be abated by
any other practical means and have been issued a special permit by the Fire
Warden.
         D. Recreational Fires defined as the burning of materials other than
rubbish where fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace or barbecue pit and with a total fuel area of 3 feet or less in
diameter and 2 feet in height. Recreational fires are permitted under the
following conditions: a 50 foot clearance from any structure or combustible
material is maintained, buckets, shovels or garden hoses are readily available,
and a special permit is issued by the Fire Warden or duly authorized agent. It
is unlawful to allow campfires except in pits conforming to the specifics above
located in designated camp grounds.
      Subd. 5. Special Permits. Special permits shall be issued by the Fire
Warden based upon the following:
         A. Written application;
         B. Evidence of need;
         C. Evidence of adequate precaution for public protection and safety;
         D. Specification of location;
         E. Specification of materials to be consumed;
         F. Limitation to day(s) with wind levels below 10 mph;
         G. Written permission of the owner, lessee, or agent of the owner or
lessee of the land;
         H. Agreement that the permittee shall keep the permit on his/her
person at all times and shall produce the permit for inspection when requested
to do so by a forest officer, Fire Warden, conservation officer, or other peace
officer;
         I. The permittee shall remain with the fire at all times and before
leaving the site completely extinguish the fire.
      Subd. 6. Revocation of Special Permits. The Fire Warden shall revoke
permits issued under this Section upon finding that:
         A. The permit is being used by any person other than the person to
whom it was issued; or
         B. The conditions or limitations set forth in said permit have been
violated; or
         C. Violations set forth in any written notice served upon a permittee
by the Fire Warden have not been corrected within the time required by the
notice; or
         D. The permit is being used for any premises or location other then
that for which it was issued.
      Subd. 7. Reporting of Fires. It is unlawful for the occupant of any
property upon which any unauthorized fire is burning, whether the fire was
started by the occupant or otherwise, to fail to promptly report the fire to
the nearest forestry office, fire department, or other proper authority. The
occupant of the premises shall be deemed prima facie guilty of negligence if
the unreported fire spreads from the property or causes damage, loss, or injury
to another person, that person's property, or the State.
SEC. 10.23. MINNESOTA UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
      Subd. 1. Adoption. The 1994 Edition of the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code is
hereby adopted as though set forth verbatim herein. One copy of said Code shall
be marked CITY OF TWO HARBORS - OFFICIAL COPY and kept on file in the office of
the City Administrator and open to inspection and use by the public.
      Subd. 2. Storage of Flammable and Explosives Material. Present
installations for the purpose of storage of flammable liquid, liquified
petroleum gas and explosives and blasting agents may continue in the
Agricultural District. Provided, however, that such installation shall not be
expanded nor shall new installations for such purpose be permitted without a
special permit from the Council. Prior to issuance of any such permit, an
application therefor shall be investigated by the Chief of Police and the Chief
of the Fire Department, and a hearing held thereon before the Council.
SEC. 10.24. MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      Subd. 1. It is the primary responsibility of any owner or occupant of any
lot or parcel of land to maintain any weeds or grass growing thereon at a
height of not more than six inches; to remove all public health or safety
hazards therefrom; to install or repair water service lines upon any property
which is improved with commercial or habitable structures; and to treat or
remove insect-infested or diseased trees thereon.
      Subd. 2. If any such owner or occupant fails to assume the primary
responsibility described in Subdivision 1 of this Section, and after notice
given by the City Administrator has not within seven days of such notice
complied, the City may cause such work to be done and the expenses thus
incurred shall be a lien upon such real estate. The City Administrator shall
certify to the County Auditor of Lake County a statement of the amount of the
cost incurred by the City. Such amount together with interest shall be entered
as a special assessment against such lot or parcel of land and be collected in
the same manner as real estate taxes.
SEC. 10.25. OBSTRUCTIONS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
      Subd. 1. Obstructions. It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit,
display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over,
across or under any public property without first having obtained a written
permit from the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects with the
terms and conditions of such permit, and taking precautionary measures for the
protection of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby
included, but not by way of limitation, within the definition of an
obstruction.
      Subd. 2. Fires. It is unlawful for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon public property.
      Subd. 3. Dumping on Public Property. It is unlawful for any person to
throw or deposit on public property any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans,
discarded cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree
limbs, paper or paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other
petroleum products, or to empty any water containing salt or other injurious
chemicals thereon. It is a violation of this Section to place or store any
building materials or waste resulting from building construction or demolition
on public property without first having obtained a written permit from the
Council.
      Subd. 4. Signs and Other Structures. It is unlawful for any person to
place or maintain a sign, advertisement, or other structure on public property
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council.
      Subd. 5. Snow or Ice on Public Property. It is unlawful for any person
not acting under a contract with the City to dump snow or ice on public
property.
      Subd. 6. Continuing Violation. Each day that any person continues in
violation of this Section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
      Subd. 7. Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the
provisions of this Section, the Council may impose such insurance or bonding
conditions thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or private
property or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding such persons and
property. Such insurance or bond shall also protect the City from any suit,
action or cause of action arising by reason of such obstruction.
SEC. 10.26. JUNK CARS, FURNITURE, HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES STORED
ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.  
(CODIFIER'S NOTE: Provisions regarding junk cars, furniture, household
furnishings and appliances stored on public or private property can be found in
Chapter 10, Section
10.27 of the City Code.)
Source: City Code         Source: Ordinance No. 6
Effective Date: 06-01-2000   Effective Date: 03-13-2002
SEC. 10.27. HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS - JUNKED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES, FURNITURE,
HOUSEHOLD FURNISHINGS AND APPLIANCES STORED ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
      Subd. 1. Preamble. The City Council finds that the accumulation on
private and public property of abandoned, unlicensed, unregistered or
inoperable motor vehicles, household furniture, furnishings or appliances, or
parts or components thereof, or metal, wood, glass, paper, rubber, concrete, or
other material whether organic or inorganic, can facilitate the growth or
spread of noxious weeds, the nesting and breeding of rodents, insects, and
harmful bacteria and be a threat of fire. The City Council also finds that
unless such accumulation is stored in a lawfully operated junk yard, housed
within a lawfully erected building, or in a container permitted, and the
contents disposed of, under the provisions of the City Code, it is a source of
filth, cause of sickness, and an immediate danger to the health, safety and
welfare of persons and property in the City. The City Council finds that if
such unauthorized, unwholesome and dangerous accumulation is permitted to
continue to pose such a threat, it is a hazardous condition and a nuisance, and
must be abated. This Section is adopted to protect the residents of the City
and their property and, in addition, to protect the rights of persons who may
be found in violation of its provisions.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used
in this Section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this Subdivision,
except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning:
         A. “Abandoned motor vehicle” means a motor vehicle as defined in
Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.011, subdivision 2 that:
            1. Has remained illegally: (i) for a period of more than forty-
eight (48) hours on any property owned or controlled by the City, or more than
four (4) hours on that property when it is properly posted; or (ii) on private
property for a period of time, as determined under Minnesota Statutes, Section
168B.04, subdivision 2, without the consent of the person in control of the
property; and
            2. Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
such that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its
usual functions.
         B. “Junk vehicle” means a vehicle that: (1) is three (3) years old or
older; (2) is extensively damaged, with the damage including such things as
broken or missing wheels, motor, drive train, or transmission; (3) is
apparently inoperable; (4) does not have a valid, current registration plate;
and (5) has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
         C. “Unauthorized vehicle” means a vehicle that is subject to removal
and impoundment pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.04, subdivision 2,
or Minnesota Statutes, Section 169.041, but is not a junk vehicle or an
abandoned vehicle.
         D. “Agency” means the Minnesota pollution control agency.
         E. “Department” means the Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
         F. “Impound” means to take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There
are two (2) types of impound, public and nonpublic.
         G. “Impound lot operator or operator” means a person who engages in
impounding or storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles.
“Operator” includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot,
regardless of whether tow truck service is provided.
         H. “Inoperable vehicle” means any motor vehicle that: (1) is not in
operating conditions by virtue of missing drive train components, tires or
other parts; or (2) is incapable of performing the transportation function for
which it was manufactured by virtue of missing drive train components, tires or
other parts; or (3) has remained in the same outside location without being
moved for more than three hundred sixty-five (365) consecutive days.
         I. “Motor vehicle or vehicle” has the meaning given motor vehicle in
Minnesota Statutes, Section 169.011.
         J. “Motor vehicle waste” means solid waste and liquid wastes derived
in the operation of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such
things as tires and used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
         K. “Nonpublic impound lot” means an impound lot that is not a public
impound lot.
         L. “Public impound lot” means an impound lot owned by or contracting
with a unit of government under Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.09.
         M. “Unit of government” includes a State department or agency, a
special purpose district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or
town.
         N. “Vital component parts” means those parts of a motor vehicle that
are essential to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such
things as the motor, drive train, and wheels.
         O. “Nuisance” means maintaining or permitting a condition which
unreasonably annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort
or repose of members of the public; or creates an obstruction to the free use
of property so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or
property; or interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any
street, public right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or, any other act or
omission declared by law or this Section to be a public nuisance.
      Subd. 3. Exemptions. For purposes of this Section, the following vehicles
are not to be considered junk, inoperable or abandoned motor vehicles:
         A. A classic or pioneer car, as defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section
168.10, provided that it has substantial potential further use consistent with
its usual functions and that it is kept secure within an enclosed building, or
on the premises of business enterprise, operated in a lawful place and manner
when necessary to the operation of such business enterprise, for storage or
depository. Such business enterprises shall include automobile junk yards, auto
repair and body shops, and commercial storage facilities.
         B. A vehicle kept inside an enclosed garage or storage building that
is permitted by the City Code.
         C. A vehicle which has current registration and is registered to the
owner or occupant of the real property and which is being kept for repair on
the property, provided that the vehicle is not kept for longer than ninety (90)
days in a disabled condition and its condition does not present a hazard and
further provided that no additional disabled vehicles are present on the
property.
         D. Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes, Section 161.242.
         E. A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
      Subd. 4. Nuisance Declared.
         A. Any vehicle, abandoned motor vehicle, or unauthorized motor vehicle
that is found stopped, standing, or parked in violation of any section of the
Minnesota Statutes or this City Code Section, or that is found to be impeding
fire fighting, snow removal, or impede the orderly flow of traffic is a
nuisance.
         B. Any junk motor vehicle or inoperable vehicle stored or abandoned on
any public or private property contrary to this City Code Section is a
nuisance.
         C. The presence of one (1) or more abandoned, unlicensed,
unregistered, junk or inoperable motor vehicles, the presence of junk,
household furniture, furnishings or appliances, or parts or components thereof,
or metal, wood, glass, paper, rubber, concrete or building materials like pipe,
lumber, trusses, shingles, unless stored in a lawfully operated junk yard,
housed within a lawfully erected building or in a permitted container is a
nuisance.
         D. Material which is incapable of performing a function for which it
is designed including, but not limited to: abandoned vehicles, discarded or
unused objects; equipment such as automobiles, boats and recreation vehicles
which are unregistered and missing parts, not complete in appearance and in an
obvious state of disrepair; parts of automobiles, furniture, appliances, cans,
boxes, scrap metal tires, batteries, containers and garbage that are in the
public view are a nuisance.
         E. Maintaining or permitting any condition which unreasonably annoys,
injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of members
of the public; or creates an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property; or interferes
with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any street, public right-of-
way, or waters used by the public; or, any other act or omission declared by
law to be a public nuisance.
      Subd. 5. Unlawful Acts. It is unlawful to maintain or permit a nuisance.
      Subd. 6. Enforcement.
         A. Notice of Unlawful Act. The Police Department or other City
official may issue a notice of an unlawful act. Any such notice shall be
personally delivered, or issued by certified mail to the owner or occupant of
the real property. The notice shall notify in writing the owner or occupants of
the premises that the officer issuing the notice has determined that a public
nuisance is being maintained on the premises and order that such nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and that the nuisance is to be abated within
fourteen (14) days. In the event that the offending party fails to correct said
unlawful act within the fourteen (14) day time period, the Police Department or
other City official may issue a citation for the unlawful act in violation of
this Section or refer the matter to the prosecuting authority for the issuance
of formal charges.
         B. Citation. Notwithstanding Subparagraph A. of this Subdivision, the
Police Department or other City official may issue a citation or refer the
matter to the prosecuting authority for the issuance of formal charges at any
time for an unlawful act in violation of this Section. In the event of a
citation, such citation shall be personally delivered or issued by certified
mail to the owner or occupant of the real property, or other acceptable manner
as set forth by the Minnesota Rules of Criminal Procedure as they may be
amended from time to time.
         C. Abatement. The City may, by and through the prosecuting authority,
require abatement of a nuisance as a condition to a plea agreement or sentence
in reference to any citation or formal charges issued under clause (B) of this
subdivision or as allowed by Subd. 9 hereof.
         D. Notwithstanding clauses (A) through (C) of this subdivision, the
City or the Police Department may, at any time, exercise its authority to
impound motor vehicles in accordance with Subd. 10 and 11 of this City Code
section.
      Subd. 7. Immediate Abatement, Emergency Procedures. Nothing in this City
Code Section shall prevent the City, without notice or other process, from
immediately abating any condition that poses an imminent and serious hazard to
human life or safety. In cases of emergency, where delay in abatement resulting
from the notice and procedure requirements set forth above will permit a
continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare,
the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To
proceed with summary enforcement, the officer charged with enforcement shall
determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in
the City and that delay in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger
public health, safety or welfare. The enforcement officer shall notify in
writing the owner of the property of the nature of the nuisance and of the
City's intention to seek summary enforcement and the time and place of the City
Council meeting to consider the question of summary enforcement. The City
Council shall determine whether or not the condition identified in the notice
to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public health, safety or
welfare will be unreasonably endangered by a delay in abatement resulting from
the procedures set forth in subd. 7 and that the nuisance be abated
immediately.
      Subd. 8. Abatement Procedures.
         A. Written notice of a violation; notice of the time, date, place and
subject of any hearing before the City Council pursuant to Subd. 7 of this
Chapter 10; notice of City Council order; and notice of motion for summary
enforcement hearing shall be given as set forth in this Section.
         B. Written notice of a violation shall be served by the officer
charged with enforcement on the owner of the property either in person or by
certified or registered mail. If the owner of record is unknown, or the owner
or record refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the property.
         C. Written notice of any motion for summary enforcement shall be made
as provided for in Minnesota Statutes, Section 463.15 et. seq. (Hazardous and
Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
         D. The City Council may, after notice to the owner and an opportunity
to be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation
is a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the
time prescribed by the City Council, the City may seek injunctive relief by
serving a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary
enforcement.
      Subd. 9. Recovery of Costs, Abatement.
         A. Personal Liability. The owner of the property on which a nuisance
has been abated shall be personally liable for the cost to the City of the
abatement or impoundment, including administrative costs, including reasonable
attorney fees and court costs.
         B. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on private
property, the accumulation of snow and ice, or rubbish on public sidewalks, or
the elimination of weeds from streets or private property, may provide for the
collection of unpaid charges as a special assessment against the property
benefited pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time.
         C. The City may also seek to impose a lien against the property
subject to the abatement and enforce any such lien in the manner provided for
the collection and enforcement of a judgment lien under applicable Minnesota
Statutes.
      Subd. 10. Authority for the Impoundment of Motor Vehicles.
         A. The City or the Police Department may also take into custody and
impound any abandoned, junk or inoperable motor vehicle in accordance with
applicable State Statutes and the City Code.
         B. The City or Police Department may take into custody and impound any
unauthorized motor vehicle as defined by this Section and Minnesota Statutes,
Section 169.041.
         C. The City or Police Department may also impound a motor vehicle
after it has been left unattended in one (1) of the following public or private
locations for the indicated period of time:
            1. In a public location not governed by Minnesota Statutes, Section
169.041:
               (a) On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four
(4) hours;
               (b) Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to
the traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately; or
               (c) That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four (4) hours; or
            2. On private property, without the permission of the owner or
occupant of the property:
               (a) That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
               (b) That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
               (c) That is private, nonresidential property, not posted,
twenty-four (24) hours; or
               (d) That is any residential property, properly posted,
immediately.
            Vehicles impounded under this Part C are hereby declared to be
unauthorized motor vehicles for the purposes of Subd. 11 hereof.
      Subd. 11. Notice of Taking and Impoundment.
         A. When an impounded vehicle is taken into custody, the City, Police
Department, or impound lot operator taking it into custody shall give notice of
the taking within five (5) days.
         B. The notice shall:
            1. Set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, make,
model and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if such information can
be reasonably obtained and the place where the vehicle is being held;
            2. Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim
the vehicle under this City Code Section and Minnesota Statutes, Section
168B.07; and
            3. State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under this City Code Section and Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.051,
subdivision 1, 1a, or 2, shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title,
and interest in the vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title
to and disposal or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to this City Code
Section and Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.08.
         C. The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any,
of an impounded vehicle and to all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and
address of the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
motor vehicle was towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped
together for convenience and economy.
         D. If an impounded vehicle remains unclaimed after thirty (30) days
from the date the notice was sent under Part B of this Subd. 11, a second
notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the
registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record.
      Subd. 12. Sale, Waiting Periods.
         A. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale under this
City Code Section and Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.08 fifteen (15) days
after notice to the owner, if the motor vehicle is determined to be:
            1. A junk motor vehicle; or
            2. An abandoned motor vehicle; or
            3. An inoperable motor vehicle.
         B. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale under this
City Code Section and Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.08 forty-five (45) days
after notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be an unauthorized
motor vehicle.
      Subd. 13. Right to Reclaim.
         A. Payment of Charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have the right to reclaim such vehicle upon the payment of all
towing and storage charges incurred as a result of the vehicle being taken into
custody within fifteen (15) days, in the case of junk or abandoned motor
vehicles, and forty-five (45) days in the case of unauthorized motor vehicle
after the date of the required notices.
         B. Lienholder. Nothing in this Section shall be construed to impair
any lien of a garagekeeper, under the laws of the State of Minnesota, or the
right of a lienholder to foreclose.
      Subd. 14. Disposition. Impounded vehicles may be disposed of in a manner
consistent with Minnesota Statutes, Section 168B.08.
      Subd. 15. Severability. If any section, sentence, clause, or other part
of this Section shall be adjudged void or of no effect, for any reason
whatsoever, such decision shall not affect the validity of any of the other
portions of this Section.
Source: Ordinance No. 6      Source: Ordinance No. 74
Effective Date: 03-13-2002      Effective Date: 05-09-2012
(Sections 10.28 through 10.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.40. HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS.  
(CODIFIER'S NOTE: Provisions regarding hazardous conditions can be found in
Chapter 10, Section
10.27 of the City Code.)
Source: Ordinance No. 6
Effective Date: 03-13-2002
SEC. 10.41. UNLAWFUL TRESPASS.  
   It is unlawful for any person to be upon the property or business premises
of another which has been enclosed by a fence without permission of the
property or business owner where "No Trespassing" signs have been prominently
posted.
SEC. 10.42. DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES.
      Subd. 1. Acts Prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to:
         A. Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon or
explosive so as to endanger the safety of another; or,
         B. Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of injuring or
killing a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or toward another; or,
         C. Manufacture or sell for any unlawful purpose any weapon known as a
slung-shot or sand club; or,
         D. Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a switch blade
knife opening automatically; or,
         E. Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the purpose of
being used unlawfully as a weapon against another; or,
         F. Sell or have in his/her possession any device designed to silence
or muffle the discharge of a firearm; or,
         G. Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under fourteen years of
age to handle or use, outside of the parent's or guardian's presence, a firearm
or air gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive; or,
         H. Furnish a minor under eighteen years of age with a firearm, air
gun, ammunition, or explosive without the written consent of his/her parent or
guardian or of the Police Department; or,
         I. Possess, sell, transfer, or have in possession for sale or
transfer, any weapon commonly known as a throwing star, nun chuck, sharp stud
or splat gun. For the purposes of this Subparagraph, (1) a "throwing star"
means a circular metallic device with any number of points projecting from the
edge, (2) a "nun chuck" means a pair of wood sticks or metallic rods separated
by chain links attached to one end of each such stick or rod, (3) a "sharp
stud" means a circular piece of metal attached to a wrist band, glove, belt or
other material which protrudes one-fourth inch, or more, from the material to
which it is attached, and with the protruding portion pyramidal in shape, sharp
or pointed, and (4) a "splat gun" means a weapon which, by means of compressed
air or gas, emits a projectile containing paint or other substance.
      Subd. 2. Exception. Nothing in Subdivision 1 of this Section shall
prohibit the possession of the articles therein mentioned if the purpose of
such possession is for public exhibition by museums or collectors of art.
      Subd. 3. Discharge of Firearms and Explosives. It is unlawful for any
person to fire or discharge any cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm,
firecracker, sky rocket or other fireworks, air gun, air rifle, or other
similar device commonly referred to as a B-B gun.
      Subd. 4. Exception. Nothing in Subdivision 3 of this Section shall apply
to a display of fireworks by an organization or group of organizations
authorized in writing by the Council, or to a peace officer in the discharge of
his/her duty, or to a person in the lawful defense of his/her person or family.
This Section shall not apply to the discharge of firearms in a range authorized
in writing by the Council.
      Subd. 5. Possession and Sale of Fireworks. It is unlawful for any person
to sell, possess or have in possession for the purpose of sale, except as
allowed in Subdivision 4 of this Section, any firecrackers, sky rockets or
other fireworks.
      Subd. 6. Exposure of Unused Container. It is unlawful for any person,
being the owner or in possession or control thereof, to permit an unused
refrigerator, ice box, or other container, sufficiently large to retain any
child and with doors which fasten automatically when closed, to expose the same
accessible to children, without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
      Subd. 7. Use of Bow and Arrow. It is unlawful for any person to shoot a
bow and arrow or other similar device within the City limits except in a
Physical Education Program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty,
or a community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the
Chief of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council, or in
accordance with Section 10.15, Hunting Deer by Bow and Arrow.
Source: Ordinance No. 63
Effective Date: 08-25-2011
SEC. 10.43. DANGEROUS TRESPASSES AND OTHER ACTS.  
   It is unlawful for any person to: (1) smoke in the presence of explosives,
or inflammable materials, or in a building, or area, in which "No Smoking"
notices have been prominently posted; or, (2) interfere with or obstruct the
prevention or extinguishing of any fire, or disobey the lawful orders of a law
enforcement officer or fireman present at the fire; or, (3) show a false light
or signal or interfere with any light, signal or sign controlling or guiding
traffic upon a highway, railway track, or navigable water; or, (4) place an
obstruction upon a railroad track; or, (5) expose another or his/her property
to an obnoxious or harmful gas, fluid or substance, with intent to injure,
molest or coerce; or, (6) trespass or permit animals under his/her control to
trespass upon a railroad track; or, (7) permit domestic animals or fowls under
his/her control to go upon the lands of another within the City; or, (8)
interfere unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer erected or marked to
designate a point of a boundary, line or a political subdivision, or a tract of
land; or, (9) trespass upon the premises of another, and without claim of right
refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor; or, (l0) occupy
or enter the dwelling of another, without claim of right, or consent of the
owner, or the consent of one who has the right to give consent, except in an
emergency situation; or, (11) enter the premises of another with intent to take
or injure any fruit, fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the
permission of the owner or occupant; or, (12) without the permission of the
owner tamper with or get into or upon a motor vehicle, or ride in or upon such
motor vehicle knowing it was taken and is being driven by another without the
permission of the owner.
   SEC. 10.44. DISORDERLY CONDUCT. It is unlawful for any person, in a public
or private place, knowing, or having reasonable grounds to know, that it will,
or will tend to, alarm, anger or disturb others or provoke any assault or
breach of the peace, to do the following: (1) engage in brawling or fighting;
or, (2) disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character; or, (3)
engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous and noisy
conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in others; or,
(4) willfully and lewdly expose his/her person or the private parts thereof, or
procure another to so expose himself or herself; and any open or gross lewdness
or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency; or, (5) whether or not
posted with signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter the waters of any river or
public swimming pool at any time when said waters are not properly supervised
by trained life-saving personnel in attendance for that purpose, or enter such
waters without being garbed in a bathing suit sufficient to cover his/her
person and equal to the standards generally adopted and accepted by the public;
or, (6) urinate or defecate in a place other than (a) if on public property
then in a plumbing fixture provided for that purpose, or (b) if on the private
property of another then in a plumbing fixture provided for that purpose, or
(c) if on private property not owned or controlled by another, then within a
building; or, (7) cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by
shouting or by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any
automobile or other vehicle horn; or, (8) use a sound amplifier upon streets
and public property without prior written permission from the City; or, (9) use
a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger others; or, (10)
cause defacement, destruction, or otherwise damage to any premises or any
property located thereon; or, (11) strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or
deposit any refuse, garbage, or rubbish unto any premises except into
receptacles provided for such purpose; or, (12) enter any motor vehicle of
another without the consent of the owner or operator; or, (13) fail or refuse
to vacate or leave any premises after being requested or ordered, whether
orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or person in charge thereof, or
by any law enforcement agent or official; provided, however, that this
provision shall not apply to any person who is owner or tenant of the premises
involved nor to any law enforcement or other government official who may be
present thereon at that time as part of his/her official duty, nor shall it
include the spouse, children, employee or tenant of such owner or occupier.
SEC. 10.45. DISORDERLY CONDUCT - NOISY PARTIES.
      Subd. 1. It is unlawful for any person or persons to congregate on any
private lands because of, or participate in, any party or gathering of people
from which noise emanates of a sufficient volume or of such nature as to
disturb the peace, quiet or repose of other persons. Any owner or person in
lawful possession or control of such private lands who has knowledge of the
disturbance and fails to immediately abate said disturbance shall be guilty of
a violation of this Section.
      Subd. 2. It is unlawful for any person or persons to congregate on any
private lands of another because of, or participate in, any party or gathering
of people in the absence of the owner of said private lands being present,
without first having obtained written permission from the landowner or other
person in lawful possession of such private lands. Such written permission
shall at all times be in the possession of one or more persons at the site of
such congregation. The document containing the written permission must bear the
signature of the landowner and date of the permitted use. Failure to display
written permission upon request shall be considered prima facie evidence of an
absence of permission from the owner.
      Subd. 3. A violation of Subdivision 1 or 2 of this Section shall give a
peace officer the authority to order all persons present, other than persons
identifying themselves as the owner or person in lawful possession or control
of such land, to immediately disperse. Any person who shall refuse to leave
after being ordered to do so by a peace officer shall be guilty of a violation
of this Section.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 10.46 through 10.59, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.60. CURFEW.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. The following terms, as used in this Section, shall
have the meanings stated:
         1. "Curfew Hours" means: For minors 15 years of age and under, 10:00
P.M. - 5:00 A.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, and 12:00
P.M. (midnight) - 5:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday. For any person 16 and 17
years of age, 11:00 P.M. - 5:00 A.M. on Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and
Thursday, and 1:00 A.M. - 5:00 A.M. on Friday and Saturday.
         2. "Emergency" means an unforeseen combination of circumstances or the
resulting state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but is not
limited to, a fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any
situation requiring immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss
of life.
         3. "Establishment" means any privately owned place of business
operated for a profit to which the public is invited, including but not limited
to any place of amusement or entertainment.
         4. "Guardian" means:
            A. A person who, under Court Order, is the guardian of the person
of a minor; or
            B. A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a Court.
         5. "Minor" for the purpose of this Section, means any person 18 years
of age and under.
         6. "Operator" means any individual, firm, association, partnership, or
corporation operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term
includes the members or partners of an association or partnership and the
officers of a corporation.
         7. "Parent" means a person who is:
            A. A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
            B. At least 18 years of age and authorized by a parent or guardian
to have the care and custody of a minor.
         8. "Public Place" means any place to which the public or a substantial
group of the public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets,
highways, and the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office
buildings, transport facilities, and shops.
         9. "Remain" means to:
            A. Linger or stay; or
            B. Fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
         10. "Serious Bodily Injury" means bodily injury that creates a
substantial risk of death or that causes death, serious permanent
disfigurement, or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily
member or organ.
      Subd. 2. Restrictions.
         A. It is unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or on
the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew hours.
         B. It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor to knowingly
permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to remain in any public
place or on the premises of any establishment within the City during curfew
hours. The term "knowingly" includes knowledge which a parent or guardian
should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a minor in
the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
         C. It is unlawful for any owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during curfew hours.
      Subd. 3. Exceptions.
         A. The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew. That the minor was:
            1. Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
            2. On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
            3. In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
            4. Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
            5. Involved in an emergency;
            6. On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor's presence;
            7. Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the City, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the City, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
            8. Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly.
         B. It is a defense to prosecution under this Section that the owner,
operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
curfew hours and refused to leave.
      Subd. 4. Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this
Section, a police officer shall ask the apparent offender's age and reason for
being in the public place. The officer shall not issue a citation or make an
arrest under this Section unless the officer reasonably believes that an
offense has occurred and that, based on any response and other circumstances,
no defense stated in this Section is present. If a citation is issued, parents
will be given a "Report of Curfew Violation", which that parent will be asked
to read and sign.
      Subd. 5. Penalties.
         A. Penalties. A person who violates a provision of this Section is
guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during which the
violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
         B. First Violation. A minor, following the first violation of this
Section, is taken home to a parent or guardian and a "Report of Curfew
Violations" is signed by the parent or guardian.
         C. Second Violation. A second violation by any minor shall be referred
for prosecution by appropriate authorities. Any minor who is convicted of a
violation of this Section, after the case has been referred for prosecution and
any adult person having the care and custody of such minor is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $700.00 and/or a jail
sentence not to exceed 90 days.
      Subd. 6. Report. Within one year after the initial enforcement of this
Section, the City Administrator and/or Police Chief shall review this Section
and report and make recommendations to the Council concerning the effectiveness
of and the continuing need for this Section. The report of the City
Administrator and/or Police Chief shall specifically include the following
information:
         A. The practicality of enforcing this Section and any problems with
enforcement identified by the Police Department;
         B. The impact of this Section on the community;
         C. The number of persons successfully prosecuted for a violation of
this Section; and
         D. The City's net cost of enforcing this Section.
      Subd. 7. Severability. The terms and provisions of this Section are
severable. If any provision of this Section is, for any reason, held to be
invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions
of this Section. It is intended that this Section be held inapplicable in such
cases, if any, where its application would be unconstitutional.
SEC. 10.61. TOBACCO.
      Subd. 1. Minor Defined. "Minor" means any natural person who has not yet
reached the age of eighteen (18) years.
      Subd. 2. Possession By Minor. It is unlawful for any minor to have in his
or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device. This
subdivision shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check
on behalf of the City.
      Subd. 3. Use By Minor. It is unlawful for any minor to smoke, chew,
sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related
device.
      Subd. 4. Procurement By Or For Minor. It is unlawful:
         A. For any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise
obtain any tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related device;
         B. For any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf
of a minor;
         C. For any person to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device to any minor; and
         D. For any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally
purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device.
         E. This Subdivision shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check on behalf of the City.
      Subd. 5. False Identification. It is unlawful for any minor to attempt to
disguise their true age by the use of a false form of identification, whether
the identification is that of another person or one in which the age of the
person has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than the
actual age of the person.
      Subd. 6. Exceptions and Defenses. Nothing in this Section shall prevent
the providing of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices to a
minor as part of a lawfully recognized religious, spiritual or cultural
ceremony. It is an affirmative defense to the violation of this Section for a
person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as described by State law.
      Subd. 7. Penalty. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who
unlawfully purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices shall take tobacco related education classes as
directed by the Hearing Officer.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 10.62 through 10.69, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.70. PUBLIC NUISANCE.  
(CODIFIER'S NOTE: Provisions regarding public nuisance can be found in Chapter
10, Section
10.27 of the City Code.)
Source: Ordinance No. 6
Effective Date: 03-13-2002
SEC. 10.71. PERMITTING A PUBLIC NUISANCE.  
(CODIFIER'S NOTE: Provisions regarding permitting a public nuisance can be
found in Chapter 10, Section
10.27 of the City Code.)
Source: Ordinance No. 6
Effective Date: 03-13-2002
SEC. 10.72. ABANDONING A MOTOR VEHICLE.  
(CODIFIER'S NOTE: Provisions regarding abandoning a motor vehicle can be found
in Chapter 10, Section
10.27 of the City Code.)
Source: Ordinance No. 6
Effective Date: 03-13-2002
SEC. 10.73. RULES AND REGULATIONS GOVERNING PUBLIC PARKS.
      Subd. 1. Adoption. The Council may by resolution adopt, and from time to
time amend, rules and regulations governing public parks. It is unlawful to
violate such rules and regulations as are conspicuously sign-posted in such
parks.
      Subd. 2. Hours. It is unlawful for any person to park, be in or remain
in, or leave any vehicle in any park between the hours of 10:30 o'clock P.M.
and 5:00 o'clock A.M. of the day following; provided, however, that this
Section shall not apply to those vehicles or persons involved in organized
activities which are authorized by permit issued by the City to remain in a
park.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 10.74 through 10.79, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.80. UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use or operate any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, loudspeaker, sound amplifier, or other machine
or device for the production or reproduction of sound which is cast upon the
public streets for the purposes of commercial advertising or attracting the
attention of the public to any building, structure, or location except as may
be licensed by the City. Further, the operation of any business or other
activity which produces a constant and high level of noise is prohibited unless
or except as may be further licensed by the City. Such businesses may include,
but are not limited to, carnivals, chain saw sculpting, racing and similar
transient and loud business pursuits.
SEC. 10.81. OBSCENITY PROHIBITED.
      Subd. 1. Definitions. As used in this Section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings stated:
         1. "Nudity" means uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post-
pubertal human genitals, pubic areas, the post-pubertal human female breast
below a point immediately above the top of the areola, or the covered human
male genitals in a discernibly turgid state. For purposes of this definition, a
female breast is considered uncovered if the nipple only or the nipple and the
areola only are covered.
         2. "Obscene performance" means a performance which in whole or in part
depicts or reveals nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement or sado-
masochistic abuse, or which includes obscenities or explicit verbal
descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual conduct.
         3. "Obscenities" means those slang words currently generally rejected
for regular use in mixed society, that are used to refer to genitals, female
breasts, sexual conduct or excretory functions or products, either that have no
other meaning or that in context are clearly used for their bodily, sexual or
excretory meaning.
         4. "Performance" means any play, motion picture, film, dance, or other
exhibition pictured, animated, or live, performed before an audience.
         5. "Sado-masochistic abuse" means flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume,
or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on
the part of one so clothed.
         6. "Sexual conduct" means human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or
any touching of the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or
female, or the breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the
same or opposite sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual
stimulation or gratification.
         7. "Sexual excitement" means the condition of human male or female
genitals or the breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation, or
the sensual experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or
nudity.
      Subd. 2. Unlawful Acts. It is unlawful for any person, for a monetary
consideration or other valuable commodity or service, to knowingly or
recklessly (1) exhibit an obscene performance, or (2) directly or indirectly
sell an admission ticket or other means to gain entrance to an obscene
performance, or (3) directly or indirectly permit admission of a person to
premises whereon there is exhibited an obscene performance.
      Subd. 3. Prosecution. Any prosecution under this Section shall include
the following elements: (1) that the average person, applying contemporary
community standards, would find the performance, taken as a whole, appealing to
the prurient interest of the audience; (2) that the performance describes or
depicts, in a patently offensive way, sexual conduct included in the definition
of "obscene performance"; and (3) that the performance, taken as a whole, lacks
serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
SEC. 10.82. FIRE, BURGLARY AND SAFETY ALARM REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
      Subd. 1. Purpose. This Section regulates the use of fire, burglary and
safety alarms for the purpose of preventing the public safety services from
misuse of public safety alarms through frequency of false alarms.
      Subd. 2. Definitions. For the purpose of this Section:
         1. "Alarm User" means the person using an alarm system to protect his
premises, regardless of whether he owns or leases the system.
         2. "Alarm System" means and includes any alarm installation designed
to be used for the prevention or detection of burglary, robbery, or fire on the
premises which contain an alarm installation. Automobile alarm devices shall
not be considered an alarm system.
         3. "False Alarm" means the occurrence of an alarm in an alarm system
for any reason other than an authorized intrusion or attempted robbery, or call
to an existing fire.
         4. "Financial Institution" means a commercial bank, savings and loan
association, credit union or establishment leasing safe deposit boxes.
         5. "Audible Alarm" means a device designed for the detection of smoke
or fire or of an unauthorized entry on the premises, which alarm activates or
generates an audible sound on or near the premises.
         6. "Calendar Year" means the period January l through December 3l of
each year.
         7. "Residential Alarm User" means occupied housing units, residential
homes and condominiums.
         8. "Non-Residential" means commercial, industrial, business, State
agencies, special purpose units of government, apartment complexes.
      Subd. 3. Regulations and Requirements.
         A. Alarm User Registration. Following the first false alarm within any
calendar year, the alarm user shall fill out and return to the Police
Department the "Alarm User Registration" form as provided within 30 days.
         B. False Alarm Statement of Correction. Following the sixth false
alarm within the calendar year, the alarm user shall fill out and return to the
Police Department within five days the "False Alarm Statement of Corrections".
This form shall contain a detailed statement of the corrective actions the
alarm user has taken to prevent additional false alarms, and to notify alarm
user of impending forfeitures should additional false alarms occur.
         C. Audible Alarms. All audible alarms shall meet the following
requirements:
            1. Every person maintaining an alarm system with an audible alarm
signal shall post a notice containing the name and telephone number of a person
to be notified to render repairs or service to such alarm system during any
hour of the day or night upon activation of such alarm system. Such notice
shall be posted at the main entrance to such premises or near the alarm in such
a position as to be legible from the ground level adjacent to the building.
            2. Alarm systems with audible alarm signals, except for fire
alarms, shall have an automatic shut-off which will silence the audible alarm
signal within a period not to exceed 20 minutes.
         D. In-House Annunciation Panel. Financial institutions having an alarm
system with multiple sensors shall have an in-house annunciation panel
providing specific annunciation of the sensors at a private monitoring location
on the premises. When, in the judgment of the Police Department, no such
private monitoring location is possible upon the premises, the requirements of
this Subparagraph D may be waived. Compliance with this Subparagraph D is
required of all alarm systems installed in financial institutions after the
effective date of this Section, and within one year from effective date of this
Section for currently operating alarm systems.
         E. Prohibited System. No person shall install an alarm system or use,
monitor, and possess an operative alarm system which utilizes taped or
prerecorded messages which deliver a telephone alarm message to the Police or
Fire Departments. No automatic dialing services or systems are permitted in any
form, including automatic dialing of the emergency number 9ll.
         F. Unlawful Act. It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to
comply with the regulations set forth in this Subdivision.
      Subd. 4. Schedule of Payment Rates.
         A. Residential users of alarm systems shall be permitted six (6) false
alarms per calendar year and pay $50.00 per false alarm thereafter.
         B. Non-residential users of alarm systems shall be permitted six (6)
false alarms per calendar year and pay $75.00 per false alarm thereafter.
         C. There is hereby established a ninety (90) day grace period for all
newly installed alarm systems; all false alarms occurring during this period
shall not be considered part of the six allowable false alarms per year. The
installation date must be verified by a dated sales receipt for the alarm
system, or a dated invoice from the installer of the alarm system.
         D. A false alarm is excused if prior written notification stating the
exact time is given to the Police Department, and the alarm is activated for
the purposes of, testing or upgrading the alarm system.
         E. All payments provided for in this Subdivision shall be made to the
City within 30 days after mailing a statement to the alarm user. Payments not
made within 30 days are delinquent and a penalty of l0% of the amount due will
be added. All delinquent charges and penalties shall be certified by the City
Administrator to the County Auditor who shall prepare an assessment roll each
year providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the property of
the delinquent alarm user.
         F. Confidentiality. All information submitted in compliance with this
Section shall be held in confidence and shall be deemed a confidential record
exempt from discovery to the extent permitted by law. Subject to requirement of
confidentiality, the Chief of Police may develop and maintain statistics for
the purpose of ongoing alarm systems evaluation.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
(Sections 10.83 through 10.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 10.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when such
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by
this Chapter, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: City Code
Effective Date: 06-01-2000
CHAPTER 11
LAND USE REGULATION (ZONING)
ARTICLE ONE: GENERAL PROVISIONS
(Sections 11.01 through 11.09, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 11.10. HOW TO USE THIS DOCUMENT.  
      Subd. 1.  Consult the zoning map to identify the base zone district for
your property. There are five types of base zone districts: Residential (R),
Mixed Use (MU), Commercial (B), Industrial (I), and Parks (P).
      Subd. 2. Review the map to see if you are within the Shoreland Overlay
Zone District. Section
11.61 in Article 6 outlines the standards related to property within this
overlay district. Of note, these minimum standards are set forth by the North
Shore Management Board for consistent development along Minnesota’s Lake
Superior shoreline.
      Subd. 3. Find permitted uses of property. Review the permitted use table
in Article 3 to determine whether your proposed use of the property is
permitted by right, available as a conditional use or an accessory use, or is
prohibited in the base zone district. Article 3 also contains use-specific
standards that control how some uses may be developed or operated.
      Subd. 4. Review what development standards apply. Review Article 4 to
determine what type, size of structure, where it may be constructed on your
property, and what other standards will apply to the development. Additional
general and district specific development standards may be required as
described in Article 5 or Article 6.
      Subd. 5. Find what procedures may be required. If your proposed use
requires a land use or conditional use permit, you will need to follow the
process for obtaining that permit as described in Article 7. If your proposed
development requires any other types of approvals (for example, a variance from
setback requirements), those procedures are also described in Article 7.
Do not hesitate to contact the Community Development Planner with any
questions.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.11. PURPOSE.  
   This Chapter establishes comprehensive zoning regulations for the City, and
provides for their administration, enforcement and amendment, in accordance
with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section 426.357, as may be amended
from time to time, and for the repeal of all ordinances in conflict herewith.
The City Council deems it necessary that adequate light, pure air, and safety
from fire and other dangers may be secured, that the taxable value of land and
buildings throughout the City may be conserved, that congestion in the public
streets may be lessened or avoided, that the hazards to persons resulting from
the accumulation or runoff of storm or flood waters may be lessened or avoided,
and that the public health, safety, comfort and welfare may be otherwise
promoted; and, pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section
426.354, establishes the Planning Commission; the Planning Commission has given
reasonable consideration to the plans and maps prepared as a part of the
comprehensive planning process; and the Planning Commission has further caused
to be prepared, reviewed and transmitted to the Council the provisions of this
Zoning Chapter.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.12. BOUNDARIES THEREOF.
      Subd. 1.  The boundaries of these districts are shown upon the map and
made a part of this Chapter, which map is designated as the zoning map or
district map, which map is on file in the office of the City Clerk. The
district map, and all the notations, references and other information shown
thereon, are a part of this Chapter and have the same force and effect as if
the district map and all the notations, references and other information shown
thereon, were all fully set forth or described herein, which district map is
made a part of this Chapter by reference.
      Subd. 2. All territories that may hereafter be annexed to the City shall
be considered as being in the same district classification as that adjoining
the area to be annexed.
      Subd. 3.  Whenever any street, alley or other public way is vacated by
official action of the Council, the zoning districts adjoining each side of
such street, alley or public way shall be automatically extended to the center
of the vacation, and all areas included in the vacation shall then and
henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
      Subd. 4.  Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts, as
shown on the official zoning or district map, the following rules shall apply:
         A. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines or
right-of-way lines of streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
         B.  Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
         C. Boundaries indicated as approximately following City limits shall
be construed as following the City limits.
         D. Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
         E.  Boundaries indicated as following rivers and streams should be
construed to follow the approximate centerline of such river or stream, and in
the event of change in such river or stream, should be construed as moving with
the actual centerline of such river or stream.
         F. Where the street or property layout existing on the ground is at
variance with that shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by Subparagraphs A through E, above, the Board of Zoning Appeals
shall interpret the district boundaries in accordance with provisions of this
Chapter.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.13. COMPLIANCE.
      Subd. 1. Except as hereinafter provided:
         A. No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, nor shall any building or land be used except in
conformity with the use, height, area, loading and parking regulations in the
district in which the building or land is located.
         B. The minimum yards and other open spaces, including lot area per
family, required by this Chapter for each and every building existing on the
effective date of this Chapter, or for any building hereafter erected, shall
not be encroached upon or considered as yard or open space requirements for any
other buildings; nor shall any lot area be reduced beyond the district
regulations of this Chapter.
         C.  Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
located on a lot as herein defined, and in no case shall there be more than one
main building on one lot in any “R” District.
      Subd. 2. Building Requirements. No building or other structure shall
hereafter be erected or altered that:
         A.  Exceeds in height.
         B. Accommodates or houses a greater number of families.
         C.  Occupies a greater percentage of lot area.
         D. Has narrower or smaller rear yards, front yards, side yards or
other open spaces.
         E.  Is in any other manner contrary to the provisions of this Chapter.
      Subd. 3. Dwellings on Any Lot of Record.  In any district where dwellings
are permitted, a single-family, detached dwelling may be erected on any lot of
official record on the effective date of this Chapter, irrespective of its area
or width, provided the applicable yard and other open-space requirements are
satisfied or modified by the Board of Appeals.
      Subd. 4. Permits Required.  No person shall use land or structures, or
erect or modify a structure, including buildings, fences and structures under
200 square feet, without first receiving any approval or   permits required by
this chapter, including land use permits, conditional use permits, planned unit
developments, and variances.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.14 through 11.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE TWO: ZONE DISTRICTS
SEC. 11.20. DISTRICT ESTABLISHMENT AND PURPOSE.
      Subd. 1.  For the purpose of this Chapter, the City is hereby divided
into districts. The use, height and area regulations are uniform in each class
of district and the districts shall be known. Each district and its
corresponding purpose are listed below:
         B-1 - Highway Business District.
The purpose of the Highway Business District is to provide for and regulate
commercial uses along major streets and highways. As the gateway to the
community, the Highway Business District will provide for adequate off-street
parking and safe road access. As the gateway to the community, site planning
will consider the interaction between the development and the public space.
         B-2 - Downtown Waterfront Business District.
The purpose of the Downtown Waterfront Business District is to enhance and
preserve the vitality of the city’s downtown waterfront business district. The
development and redevelopment of properties is encouraged as is a mix of
retail, leisure and hospitality, entertainment, civic, residential and office
uses. Parking, except for residential uses, will be primarily provided on
streets and in shared parking areas. Alleys will provide service and parking
access. Mixed use development is encouraged.
         MUW - Mixed-Use Waterfront.
The Two Harbors Waterfront is a unique community resource serving as a link to
the City’s maritime history and Lake Superior, and affording the community with
diverse economic development and recreation opportunities. The purpose of this
district is to encourage the establishment of a mixture of residential and
commercial uses that reflect a range of uses and blend harmoniously with the
scenic and natural amenities citizens value along Lake Superior.
         PR - Parks and Recreation.
The purpose of this district is the establishment and preservation of publicly
and quasi-publicly owned lands and facilities for purposes of recreation and
public accessible open spaces.
         PP - Park Preserve.
The purpose of this district is the establishment and preservation of publicly
and quasi-publicly owned lands and facilities for passive recreation and
protection of green space.
         R-2 - Low to Medium Residence District.
The purpose of this district is the establishment and preservation of
traditional residential neighborhoods that are primarily single- and two-family
homes and lower-density, multiple-family homes. Nonresidential uses permitted
will support the primary uses of the neighborhood.
         R-3 - High Density Residence District.
The purpose of this district is the establishment and preservation of
residential neighborhoods that feature a mix of all housing types and a higher
concentration of nonresidential uses supporting the neighborhood and the City
as a whole. Mixed use development providing additional services to the district
and surrounding neighborhoods may be achieved through the planned unit
development process.
         I-1 - Light Industrial District.
The purpose of the "I-1" Light Industrial District is to permit modern, high-
performance, lower-impact light industrial uses with co-mingling of production
and non-production activities, technology and information uses, and scientific,
technical and professional service uses, while also permitting the continued
development of compatible non-industrial uses.
         I-2 - General Industrial District.
The purpose of the "I-2" General Industrial District is to permit industrial
activities that are not compatible with light industrial areas due to more
intensive use of land and infrastructure, traffic generation, and/or require
greater use of site and facility design and devices necessary to mitigate
objectionable influences, and industrial uses requiring harbor access.
         I-1A - Light Industrial/Adult Use District.
the purpose of the "I-1A" Light Industrial/Adult Use District is to permit
modern, high-performance, lower-impact light industrial uses with co-mingling
of production and non-production activities, technology and information uses,
and scientific, technical and professional service uses, while also permitting
the continued development of compatible non-industrial uses. In the interest of
general health and welfare, residential and certain institutional uses are not
permitted within this district. It is also the purpose of this district to
allow "Adult Use, Principal" businesses that are regulated by Section
4.50 of the City Code.
         PUD - Planned Unit Development District.
The purpose of the Planned Unit Development ("PUD") Overlay District is to
implement the goals and policies of the comprehensive plan by providing
comprehensive procedures and standards intended to allow flexibility in the
development of residential, commercial and mixed residential/commercial
development by incorporating design modifications and/or mixture of uses. By
allowing deviation from the strict district and performance standards, the PUD
process is intended to encourage:
            A. Variety.  Innovations in development to the extent that the
growing demands for all styles of economic development expansion may be met by
greater variety in type, design and placement of structures, and by the
conservation and more efficient use of land in such developments.
            B. Sensitivity. By departing from the strict application of
required performance standards associated with traditional zoning, a PUD can
maximize the development potential of land while remaining sensitive to its
unique and valuable natural and scenic characteristics.
            C. Efficiency.  The consolidation of areas for recreation and
reduction in street lengths and other utility-related expenses.
            D. Density Transfer.  The project density may be clustered, basing
density on the number of units per acre instead of specific lot dimensions.
            E. District Integration. The combination of uses that are allowed
in separate zoning districts such as:
               1.  Mixed residential allows both densities and unit types to be
varied within the PUD.
               2. Mixed commercial, residential or institutional land use with
the integration of compatible land uses within the PUD.
            F. Infill.  Encourage infill within areas of the City characterized
by existing development.
         S-O - Shoreland Overlay Zone District.
The purpose of the Shoreland Overlay Zone District is to promote, preserve and
enhance the water resources of Lake Superior and environment within the city,
and to protect them from adverse effects caused by poorly sited or incompatible
development.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.21 through 11.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE THREE: PERMITTED USES
SEC. 11.30.  LAND USE TABLE.
P - Permitted    C - Conditional    A - Accessory    Blank - Prohibited      *
- Specific Standards
PRINCIPAL USE   Residential Business Mixed Use Industrial   Parklands Specific
TYPE                                                                  Standard
ZONING DISTRICT R-2 R-3     B-1 B-2  MUW       I-1 I-2 I-1A PR PP
P - Permitted    C - Conditional    A - Accessory    Blank - Prohibited      * -
Specific Standards
PRINCIPAL USE TYPE              ResidentialBusinessMixed Industrial Parklands Specific
                                                   Use                        Standard
ZONING DISTRICT                 R- R-3     B- B-2  MUW   I- I- I-1A PR PP
                                2          1             1  2
RESIDENTIAL
Household Living   
Accessory Dwelling Unit         C  C                                          11.31.12
Single-Family Dwelling          P  P                                           
Two-Family Dwelling             P  P               C                           
Townhouse                       C  P               C                          11.31.1
Multiple Dwellings, 4 units or  C  P       P  C    C                           
less
Multiple Dwellings, 4 units or  C  P       P  C    C                           
more
Residence above first floor                        C                           
Live Work Dwelling                         C  C    C                           
Group Living
Boarding Home                              C  C                                
Manufactured Home Park          C  C       C  C    C                           
Nursing Home                    C  P       P  C                                
Licensed Residential Care       P  P               C                           
Facility, 6 or fewer persons
Housing with Services, 6 or     P  P               C                           
fewer persons
Licensed Residential Care       C  C       P  P    C                           
Facility, 7 to 16 persons
Housing with Services, 7-16     C  C       P  P    C                           
persons
COMMERCIAL USES
Accommodations and Food Service
Bar or Drinking Place                      P  P    C                           
Brewpub                                    P  P    C                C          
Caterer                                    P  P    C                           
Hotel and Motel                            P  P    C                C          
Restaurant                                 P  P    C                C          
Retail Bakery                              P  P    C                           
Short-Term Rental               *  *       *  *    *                           
Retail Sales and Services
Adult Use, Principal                                           C               
Appliance and Consumer                     P  P                                
Electronics Repair
Automotive Parts and                       P  P                                
Accessories Stores
Automotive, Light Vehicle, and
Home and Garden Equipment                  C             C     C              11.31.2
Repair
Contractor/Trade Supply Store              P  P          C  C  C               
Convenience Store, not                     P  P    C                           
including gas
Dry Cleaning and Laundry                   P  P                                
Services
Furniture and Home Furnishing              P  P                                
Stores
Gasoline Service Station, not              P                                   
including automotive repair
General Merchandise, Apparel               P  P    C                           
and Shoes
Gift, Novelty, Souvenir Store              P  P    C                           
Grocery Store                              P  P                                
Hardware Store                             P  P                                
Head Shop                                                      C               
Health and Fitness Facilities              P  P                                
Jewelry Store                              P  P    C                           
Lumber Yard and Building                   P             C     C
Materials
Personal and Household Goods               P  P                                
Repair
Personal Care Services                     P  P    C                           
Pharmacies and Drug Stores                 P  P    C                           
Public Market and Market Stands            P  P    P                P  P       
Retail uses conducted as an
accessory use within existing                            C     C               
structures, not to exceed 20%
of gross floor area
Automotive, Vehicle and
Recreational Vehicle Sales and             C                                   
Services
Professional and Business Services
Banks and Other Financial                  P  P                                
Institutions
Business Support Services                  P  P                                
Data Processing, Hosting, and              P  P          P     P               
Related Services
Medical or Dental Lab                                                          
Professional and Administrative            P  P    C                           
Offices
INDUSTRIAL
Craft Brewery                              C  C    C                           
Artisanal Industrial                       C  C    C                          11.31.3
Bulk Fuel Depots                                         C  C  C              11.31.4
Commercial and Industrial                                P  P  P               
Machinery and Equipment Repair
Contractor’s Shop and Storage                          P  P  P               
Yard
Distribution Center                                      P  P  P               
Dwellings for Caretakers,                                C  C  C               
Watchmen and Operators
Light Manufacturing, Accessory             C  C                                
to Retail
Manufacturing, General                                      P                  
Manufacturing, Light                       C             P  P  P              11.31.18
Micro-Alcohol Production                   C  C    C                           
Mini-Warehouses and Self-                                C     C              11.31.9
Storage
Professional, Scientific, and
Technical Services (Industrial                           P  P  P               
Class)
Railroad Yard                                               C                  
Recycling Collection Point                               C  C  C               
Scientific, Research and                                 P  P  P               
Development Services
Shipyard                                                    C                  
Specialty Food Service                     C  C    C                           
Specialized Design Services                C  C    C     P  P  P               
Storage and Handling of
Combustible and/or Flammable                             C  C  C              11.31.4
Liquids
Storage of Boats and RVs                                 C  C  C               
Telecommunications Processing                                                  
and Transmission Services
Veterinaries, Animal Shelters,
Kennels for Boarding Pets and                            C     C              11.31.10
Other Domestic Animals
Warehousing, and Storage,
except hazardous materials,                              P  P  P               
combustible materials and or
flammable liquids
Wholesale Trade, except
hazardous materials,                       C             P  P  P               
combustible materials and/or
flammable liquids
Water Access-Dependent                                      C                  
Industrial Use
PARKS, RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT
Campground                                         C                P          
Indoor Recreation and                      P  P    C                           
Entertainment Facility, Private
Indoor Recreation and           C  C       P  P    C                P          
Entertainment Facility, Public
Outdoor Recreation and                     C  C    C                           
Entertainment Facility, Private
Outdoor Recreation and          C  C       C  C    C                P          
Entertainment Facility, Public
Marina and Public Water Access                     C                P          
Public Park                     C  C               C                P  P       
Passive Recreation              C  C       C  C    C                P  P       
PUBLIC, CIVIC AND INSTITUTIONAL
Art Gallery                                P  P    C                           
Cemetery                                   C                                   
Childcare Center                C  C       P  P    C                           
Clinic, including Medical,                 C  C                                
Dental, Therapeutic
Club or Lodge (Private)            C       P  P                                
Community Center, Senior        C  C       P  P    C                           
Center, Teen Center
Funeral Home or Mortuary                   C                                   
Government Offices              C  C       P  P    C     C  C  C               
Medical Heliport                           C                                   
Hospital                                   C                                   
Law Enforcement, Public Safety, C  C       C  C    C     C  C  C               
and Fire Station
Museum                                     P  P    C                           
Philanthropic Institution                  P  P    C                           
Religious Assembly              C  C       C  C                               11.31.14
School, Elementary              C  C       P  P                                
School, Middle or High          C  P       P  P                                
Trade, Business or Art School              P  P                                
University or College                      C  C                                
Meeting or Convention Hall                 C  C    C                          11.31.14
ACCESSORY USES
Adult Use, Accessory                       A  A                A              11.31.5
Accessory Structure             A  A       A  A    A     A  A  A    A  A      11.31.11
Offices, Sales Floors, and
Showrooms Customarily                                    A  A  A               
Incidental to the Primary Use
Research and Development,
Engineering and Design,
Marketing and Sales, Customer                            A  A  A               
Support and Other Non-
Production Activities Clearly
Incidental to the Primary Use
Short-Term Living Quarters for
Caretakers, Watchmen and                                 A  A  A               
Operators
Accessory Outdoor Service                  A  A    A                          11.31.15
Storage Garage                     A                                           
Dwellings for Caretakers,                                                      
Watchmen, and Operators
Drive-Through Facilities and               A/ A/C                             11.31.7
Drive-Through Businesses                   C
Temporary Shipping or Storage   A  A       A  A          A  A  A              11.31.8
Container
Outdoor Seating                            A  A    A                          11.31.6
Private Swimming Pools          A  A       A  A    A                          11.31.13
Residential Fences              A  A       A  A    A                          11.31.16
Home Occupations                C  C       C  C    C                          11.31.17
 
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.31. USE-SPECIFIC STANDARDS.
      Subd. 1. Access to Townhouses. In the case of multi-building townhome
development, vehicular access must be provided from a public street right-of-
way to all buildings through a perpetual, unobstructed, paved easement or
parking area of at least twenty (20) feet in width.
      Subd. 2. Automotive, Light Vehicle, Home and Garden Repair and
Maintenance.
         A.  No repair work shall take place outside of the principal
structure.
         B.  Any partially or wholly damaged or disassembled vehicle stored
overnight shall be kept in an enclosure screening the vehicle and/or other
materials from public view by use of vegetation, berms, fencing or other means.
      Subd. 3. Artisanal Industrial.
         A. Artisanal industrial uses must maintain at least ten percent (10%)
of the gross floor area of the facility for retail purposes.
         B. Outdoor storage shall be fully screened from view.
         C.  Artisanal industrial uses shall create little or no adverse
impacts on surrounding properties and the environment by virtue of being
relatively free from objectionable features, including but not limited to,
noise, dust, odor, smoke, glare or vibration, or whose objectionable features
can be eliminated by design, screening and other appropriate devices, and do
not create objectionable amounts of traffic.
      Subd. 4. Bulk Fuel Depot, Storage and Handling of Combustible Materials
and/or Flammable Liquids. Storage and handling of any hazardous materials,
combustible materials and/or flammable liquids shall be located at least two
hundred fifty (250) feet from any residential zone district.
      Subd. 5. Adult Use, Accessory. An accessory adult use is hereby allowed
in an I-1A Zone District without a separate limited industrial district/adult
use permit, provided that a limited industrial district/ adult use permit has
been issued for the principal business activity to be conducted on the premises
on which the accessory adult use is to be conducted.
      Subd. 6. Outdoor Seating. An outdoor seating area may be established in
conjunction with a permitted eating and drinking establishment, micro-alcohol-
production facility, or entertainment venue, provided:
         A.  Parking requirements continue to be met.
         B. Outdoor seating areas of five hundred (500) square feet or less or
fifteen percent (15%) of the gross floor area of the principal use, whichever
is less, shall not require additional parking. Seating areas more than five
hundred (500) square feet or fifteen percent(15%) of the gross floor area shall
be required to provide additional parking at the standard parking rate for the
principal use.
         C. Alcoholic beverages may be consumed within an outdoor seating area
in conjunction with a restaurant, provided the primary restaurant operation is
licensed to serve alcoholic beverages.
         D. Outdoor seating areas shall comply with setback requirements and
shall not impede a public right-of-way or pedestrian or vehicular access.
      Subd. 7. Drive-Through Facilities and Drive-Through Businesses.
         A. Drive-through facilities shall be designed and located so that they
do not impede traffic or impair vehicular and pedestrian traffic movement or
exacerbate the potential for pedestrian or vehicular conflicts.
         B.  The Planning Commission may require screening, buffering, lighting
standards to avoid conflict with neighboring commercial, residential and
institutional properties.
      Subd. 8. Temporary Shipping or Storage Containers.
         A.  If they are related to the project, temporary shipping or storage
containers are allowed on construction sites in any district where there is an
active building permit.
         B.  Temporary shipping or storage containers are allowed for a period
of fifteen (15) days in any calendar year in all districts for moving-related
purposes.
      Subd. 9. Mini-Warehouses and Self-Storage.
         A. The use shall be contained within an enclosed building or
buildings, with controlled access within a fenced compound.
         B.  Hours of public access to mini-storage units adjacent to a
residential zone district shall be restricted to the period from 6:00 a.m. to
10:00 p.m.
         C.  Up to fifty percent (50%) of the site may be used for outdoor
storage of items, provided the site is fully screened from public view with a
fence or wall at least eight (8) feet in height.
      Subd. 10. Animal Shelters, Veterinary, Kennels.  Any structure or area
used for such purposes, including pens and exercise yards, shall be located at
least one hundred (100) feet from any residential zone district. Such pens or
exercise runs shall be enclosed on four (4) sides by a sight-obscuring,
unpierced fence or wall at least six (6) feet in height.
      Subd. 11. Accessory Structures Yard Space Encroachment, Accessory
Buildings.
         A. Accessory Buildings Attached in Residence Districts.  An accessory
building, including a carport, attached to the principal building on a lot
shall be made structurally a part thereof, and shall comply in all respects
with the requirements of this Chapter applicable to the principal building. For
the purpose of this Chapter, a breezeway attached between the garage or carport
and the principal building shall be considered a part of the principal
building.
         B. Accessory Buildings Detached, Residence Districts. Detached
accessory buildings may be located in side and rear yards and shall not be
located in front yards. When located within ten (10) feet of the rear wall of
the principal building, compliance with all yard requirements applicable to the
principal building in the district is mandatory. Where accessory buildings are
located in the rear yard and side yards, greater than ten (10) feet distance
from the rear wall of the principal building, they shall not be located nearer
than five (5) feet from the side and rear lot lines. A detached accessory
building on a corner lot shall not project beyond the front yard setback
requirements of the principal building. Detached accessory buildings in
residence districts shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the
lot area, and shall meet the following criteria:
            1.  The side walls of the accessory building shall not exceed
fourteen (14) feet in height; sixteen (16) foot side walls will be allowed if
one (1) additional foot is added to existing setback standards.
            2. The highest point of the accessory building shall be equal to
the maximum height allowed by the district for the principal building, while
allowing for an increase in side yard setbacks to the same of one (1) foot for
every two (2) feet over twenty-five (25) feet in height.
            3. Adequate safeguards and assurances have been provided to the
City that there will not at any time be a use or activity in the accessory
building that is not otherwise allowed in the district.
            4.  The accessory building shall be aesthetically consistent with
surrounding adjoining properties. Aesthetic factors shall be considered with a
view towards the highest possible use of the area in the vicinity of the
proposed structure. This determination shall be made by the Zoning
Administrator after considering the size, shape, general appearance, structural
materials and landscaping of the accessory structure.
         C. Accessory Uses and Buildings in R-3 Districts.  Accessory buildings
and uses customarily incidental to any above uses, including storage garages,
where the lot is occupied by a multiple dwelling, hospital or institutional
building.
         D. Accessory Buildings, Commercial and Manufacturing Districts. In
commercial and manufacturing districts, accessory buildings and uses may occupy
any part of the ground area that the principal building is permitted to occupy.
Accessory buildings, such as buildings for parking attendants, guard shelters,
gate houses and transformer buildings, may be located in the front or side
yards of "I-2" Districts.
      Subd. 12. Accessory Dwelling Units.
         A.  Accessory dwelling units (ADUs) may be allowed on single-family
residential properties.
         B.  ADUs shall not exceed eight hundred (800) square feet in total
floor space.
         C. Attached ADUs shall comply with the standards of all other attached
accessory structures.
         D.  Detached ADUs shall comply with the standards of all other
detached accessory structures.
         E.  ADUs shall meet the building and utility code requirements for
residential structures.
         F. ADUs shall require one (1) additional off-street parking space.
      Subd. 13. Private Swimming Pools. A private swimming pool shall include a
pool, pond, lake or open tank not located within a completely enclosed
building, and containing or normally capable of containing water to a depth at
any point, greater than one and one-half (1½) feet. No such swimming pool shall
be allowed in any district unless it complies with the following conditions and
requirements:
         A. It may not be located, including any walks or paved areas or
accessory structures adjacent thereto, closer than five (5) feet to any
property adjacent to the property on which it is located.
         B.  The swimming pool, or the entire property on which it is located,
shall be so walled or fenced in order to prevent uncontrolled access by
children from the street or adjacent properties.
         C. The pool shall further be screened by, at a minimum, a masonry
wall, board fence or compact hedge, five (5) feet in height and maintained in
good condition.
      Subd. 14. Assembly Buildings. On a lot occupied by a church or other
building in which persons congregate, or that is designed, arranged, remodeled
or normally used for the congregation of persons; each side or rear yard shall
be not less than twenty-five (25) feet. This Subdivision shall take precedence
over other regulations in this Chapter as to width or side and rear yards,
insofar as it applies to churches or other public or semi-public buildings in
which persons normally congregate in numbers in excess of twenty-five (25).
      Subd. 15. Accessory Outdoor Use. Accessory, on-premises, outdoor dining
and seating, accessory, on-premises display of goods for sale by the primary
permitted use are allowed. The use of a portion of a public sidewalk for
outdoor dining, seating, a bicycle rack, temporary display of goods, a
temporary sign, or other purpose that does not involve the permanent vacation
of any part of the public right-of-way may be allowed following the issuance of
a sidewalk use permit.
      Subd. 16. Residential Fences.
         A. For the purpose of this Section, the term “Fence” shall include any
enclosed barrier, consisting of wood, vinyl, composite, stone or metal,
intended to prevent ingress or egress.
         B. Fences shall be located so that each side of the fence may be
properly maintained by the property owner of the fence while on the owner’s
property.
         C. Fences may be located at the property line with written consent of
the adjacent property owner.
         D. The finished side of the fence shall face the neighboring property.
         E.  Fences exceeding seven (7) feet in height shall also require a
building permit.
         F.  On a corner lot, no fence or other structure more than three and
one half feet (3½') in height above the plane of the established grades of the
street shall be erected on any part of the front yard or side yard herein
established that is included within the street lines of intersecting streets,
and a line connecting such street lines at a point that is twenty (20) feet
from their point of intersection, measured along such street lines, and no
planting of foliage shall be placed or maintained within such area that, in the
judgement of the Zoning Administrator, will materially obstruct the view of a
driver of a vehicle approaching the street intersection.
         G.  No fence that is more than six (6) feet in height above the plane
of the finished grade of the lots, at the division line between lots, shall be
erected along such division line unless no part of such fence is within twenty
(20) feet of any residence building on such lot or abutting lot, and in no
instance shall the fence be nearer than twenty (20) feet to any street line.
      Subd. 17. Home Occupations.
         A. A professional office or studio is permitted in the residence of an
architect, artist, dentist, lawyer, engineer, physician, teacher or similar
professional persons, but not including beauty parlors, barber shops, schools
of any kind with organized classes or any businesses; provided that not more
than one (1) person, not residing in the dwelling, is employed in the
establishment.
         B.  Outdoor storage shall not be allowed.
         C. Home occupations shall create little or no adverse impacts on
surrounding properties and the environment by virtue of being relatively free
from objectionable features, including but not limited to, noise, dust, odor,
smoke, glare or vibration, or whose objectionable features can be eliminated by
design, screening and other appropriate devices, and does not create
objectionable amounts of traffic.
      Subd. 18. Light Manufacturing in B-1 Zones.
         A.  Allowed in the B-1 Zone along Highway 61 (not to include 7th
Avenue, between the railroad bridge and 4th Street), CSAH 61 and Highway 2.
         B.  Must meet all design, landscaping and parking standards for the
district.
         C.  Must meet all performance standards for industrial uses.
         D.  Outdoor storage shall be fully screened and, if possible, located
out of view of the public right-of-way.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.32 through 11.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE FOUR: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
SEC. 11.40. DIMENSION TABLE.
District              B-          B-                                                                    I-2 -
Dimensional B- B- MUW 1           2           MUW         PR PP R- R- I-1(A) - Up to   I-2 - Up to 50'  Up to
Standards   1  2      Residential Residential Residential       2  3  50' Height    Height        70'
                                                                                                        Height
District                                                     B-          B-                                                                                                       I-2 -
Dimensional B-1      B-2     MUW                             1           2           MUW Residential                 PR   PP   R-2   R-3        I-1(A) - Up to   I-2 - Up to 50'  Up to
Standards                                                    Residential Residential                                                            50' Height    Height        70'
                                                                                                                                                                                  Height
Minimum Lot                                                  5,000 sq.   5,000 sq.                                             6,850 6,750 sq.
Area        None     None    5,000 sq. ft.                   ft          ft.         5,000 sq. ft.                   None None sq.   ft.        None             None             None
                                                                                                                               ft.
Minimum     None     None    None                            None        None        None                            None None 50    50 ft.     None             None             None
Width                                                                                                                          ft.
Standard                                                                                                                       50
Lot         None     None    None                            None        None        None                            None None ft. x 50 ft. x   None             None             None
Dimensions                                                                                                                     137   135 ft.
                                                                                                                               ft.
Minimum     None     None    10 ft.                          10 ft.      10 ft.      10 ft.                          10   None 25    25 ft.     25 ft            25 ft            25 ft
Front Yard                                                                                                           ft.       ft.
                                                                                                                                     7 ft. up
                                                                                                                                     to 28 ft.
                                                                                                                                     height + 1
                                                                                                                                     ft. for
Minimum     None,                                                                                                    5               every                                        20/40*
Side Yard   3 ft. if None    5 ft.                           5 ft.       5 ft.       5 ft.                           ft.  None 7 ft. additional 20/35* ft.       20/35* ft.       ft.
            provided                                                                                                                 4 ft.
                                                                                                                                     height (11
                                                                                                                                     ft. at
                                                                                                                                     maximum
                                                                                                                                     height)
Minimum     10 ft.   None    20 ft.                          20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.                          10   None 30    30 ft.     12/25* ft.       12/25* ft.       25/50*
Rear Yard                                                                                                            ft.       ft.                                                ft.
            3        3
Maximum     stories  stories 35 ft + lower than depot if     3 stories + 3 stories + 35 ft + lower than depot if     35   20   30    45 ft.     50 ft.           50 ft.           70 ft.
Height      + 35 ft. + 35    within 1,000 ft. of depot    35 ft.      35 ft.      within 1,000 ft. of depot    ft.  ft.  ft.
                     ft.
 
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.41. ACCESSORY STRUCTURE DIMENSIONAL TABLE.
 
District                              B-          B-                                                                                                      I-2 -
Dimensional B-1      B-2     MUW      1           2           MUW         PR          PP          R-2        R-3        I-1(A) - Up to   I-2 - Up to 50'  Up to
Standards                             Residential Residential Residential                                               50' Height    Height        70'
                                                                                                                                                          Height
Minimum     None     None    None     N/A         N/A         N/A         None        None        N/A        N/A        25 ft.           25 ft.           25 ft.
Front Yard
                                      When        When        When                                When       When
                                      located     located     located                             located    located
                                      within 10   within 10   within 10                           within 10  within 10
            None,            None, 3  feet of     feet of     feet of                             feet of    feet of
Minimum     3 ft. if None    ft. if   principal   principal   principal   None        None        principal  principal  20/35* ft.       20/35* ft.       20/35*
Side Yard   provided         provided structure:  structure:  structure:                          structure: structure:                                   ft.
                                      7 ft.       7 ft.       7 ft.                               7 ft.      7 ft.
                                                                                                          
                                      Otherwise:  Otherwise:  Otherwise:                          Otherwise: Otherwise:
                                      5 ft.       5 ft.       5 ft.                               5 ft.      5 ft.
                                      When        When        When        When                    When       When
                                      located     located     located     located                 located    located
                                      within 10   within 10   within 10   within 10               within 10  within 10
                                      ft. of      ft. of      ft. of      ft. of                  ft. of     ft. of
Minimum     10 ft.   None    10 ft.   principal   principal   principal   principal   None        principal  principal  12/25* ft.       12/25* ft.       12/25*
Rear Yard                             structure:  structure:  structure:  structure:              structure: structure:                                   ft.
                                      20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.      20 ft.                  30 ft.     30 ft.
                                                                                                         
                                      Otherwise:  Otherwise:  Otherwise:  Otherwise:              Otherwise: Otherwise:
                                      5 ft.       5 ft.       5 ft.       5 ft.                   5 ft.      5 ft.
                                                                          Signs: 10   Signs: 10
            3        3       3                                            ft.,        ft.,
Maximum     stories  stories stories  30 ft.      45 ft.      45 ft.      Shelters    Shelters    30 ft.     45 ft.     50 ft.           50 ft.           70 ft.
Height      + 35 ft. + 35    + 35 ft.                                     and         and
                     ft.                                                  Structures: Structures:
                                                                          20 ft.      20 ft.
 
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.42. DIMENSION-RELATED PROVISIONS.
      Subd. 1. Area Requirements. No part of a yard or other open space or off-
street parking or loading space required for any building to comply with this
Chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space or off-street parking
or loading space similarly required for any other building, except as modified
hereinafter. No yard or lot existing on the effective date of this Chapter
shall be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth
herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date of this Chapter shall
meet at least the minimum requirements established by this Chapter.
      Subd. 2. Height Limitations are Applicable. The height limitations
stipulated in this Chapter shall not apply to the following:
         A. Church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, water
towers, fire and hose towers, observation towers, transmission towers,
chimneys, smoke stacks, flag poles, radio and television towers, masts and
aerials, and parapet walls extending not more than four (4) feet above the
limiting height of the building.
         B. Places of public assembly in churches, schools and other permitted
public and semi-public buildings, provided that they are located on the first
floor of such buildings; provided that for each two (2) feet by which the
height of such building exceeds the maximum height otherwise permitted in the
district, its side and rear yards shall be increased in width or depth by an
additional floor over the side and rear yards required for the highest building
otherwise permitted in the district; and further provided that the Board of
Appeals shall find that such additional height will not be materially
detrimental to surrounding property.
         C. Elevator penthouses, monitors, and scenery lofts, provided no
linear dimension of any such structure exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
corresponding street-lot-line frontage.
      Subd. 3. Yard and Frontage Limitations not Applicable. The yard and
frontage limitations stipulated elsewhere in this Chapter shall not apply to
the following:
         A.  In any district where front yards are required and where forty
percent (40%) or more of the frontage on one (1) side of a street between two
(2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings that have a front yard
that is greater or less than the required front yard in the district, no
building shall project beyond the average front yard so established.
         B.  Where forty percent (40%) or more of the frontage on one (1) side
of a street between two (2) intersecting streets is developed with buildings
that have not observed a front yard as described above, then:
            1. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within one hundred (100) feet of existing buildings on both sides, the minimum
front yard shall be a line drawn between the two (2) closest front corners of
the adjacent buildings on the two (2) sides, or;
            2. Where a building is to be erected on a parcel of land that is
within one hundred (100) feet of an existing building on one (1) side only,
such building may be erected as close to the street as the existing adjacent
building.
      Subd. 4. Yard Space, General. Any building, structure or use hereafter
erected, altered or established shall comply with the yard space requirements
of the district in which it is located except as specified below. The required
yard space for any building, structure or use shall be contained on the same
lot as the building, structure or use, and such required yard space shall fall
entirely upon land in a district or districts in which the principal use is
permitted. Any required yard space shall be open from thirty (30) inches above
ground to the sky, except as specified herein.
      Subd. 5. Yard Space Encroachments. The following projections may be
permitted into any front, rear or side yard adjoining a side street lot line:
         A.  Cornices, sills, belt courses, eaves and other ornamental features
to a distance of not more than two (2) feet, six (6) inches.
         B.  Fire escapes to a distance of not more than four (4) feet, six (6)
inches.
         C.  Uncovered stairways and necessary landings to a distance of not
more than four (4) feet, six (6) inches, provided such stairways and landings
shall not extend above the entrance floor of the building, except for a
railing, not to exceed three (3) feet in height, and not less than three (3)
feet from the side yard line.
         D.  Bay windows and chimneys to a distance of not more than three (3)
feet, provided that such features do not occupy, in the aggregate, more than
one-third () of the length of the building wall on which they are located.
         E.  Terraces and uncovered porches, when constructed more than six (6)
inches above the ground level at the nearest lot line, to a distance of not
more than two (2) feet, six (6) inches, provided the terraces and porches do
not extend more than three (3) feet above the floor level of the ground story,
and not less than three (3) feet from the side yard lot line.
         F.  Balconies, in the "R" Districts, to a distance of not more than
three (3) feet into yards of less than twenty (20) feet, and to a distance of
not more than six (6) feet into yards of more than twenty (20) feet; provided
that the balconies do not occupy, in the aggregate, more than one-third () of
the length of the building wall on which they are located.
         G.  Subject to the limitations for features projecting into front
yards, the features may also project into required yards adjoining interior
side lot lines, provided that the distance shall not exceed one-fifth (1/5) of
the required least width of such side yard, and not less than three (3) feet
from side yard lot line.
      Subd. 6. Yard Space Exceptions, Topography. In any "R" District, where
the natural grade of a lot within the required front yard has an average slope,
normal to the front lot line at every point along the line, of such a degree or
percent of slope that it is not practicable to provide a driveway with a grade
of twelve percent (12%) or less to a private garage, a driveway or garage may
be located within such front yard, but not in any case closer than twelve (12)
feet to the street line.
      Subd. 7. Vision Clearance in Residence District.
         A.  On a corner lot, no fence or other structure more than three and
one-half (3½) feet in height above the plane of the established grades of the
street shall be erected on any part of the front yard or side yard herein
established that is included within the street lines of intersecting streets,
and a line connecting such street lines at a point which is twenty (20) feet
from their point of intersection, measured along such street lines, and no
planting of foliage shall be placed or maintained within such area that, in the
judgement of the Zoning Administrator, will materially obstruct the view of a
driver of a vehicle approaching the street intersection.
         B.  No fence that is more than six (6) feet in height above the plane
of the finished grade of the lots, at the division line between lots, shall be
erected along such division line, unless no part of such fence is within twenty
(20) feet of any residence building on such lot or abutting lot, and in no
instance shall the fence be nearer than twenty (20) feet to any street line.
      Subd. 8. Public Sanitary Facilities Not Available. In any "R" District,
where a public sanitary sewer is not accessible, the otherwise specified lot
area and frontage requirements shall comply with Lake County Health Department
Regulations.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.43 through 11.49, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE FIVE: GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
SEC. 11.50. LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS.
      Subd. 1. Landscape Plan. A landscape plan shall be required for all
commercial and industrial developments, and for residential developments
consisting of more than two (2) units, and shall include:
         A.  Landscape plans shall be prepared by a registered landscape
architect for planned unit development, mixed-use waterfront development, or
where there is greater than one (1) acre of site disturbance. The landscape
plan shall cover all areas not used for traffic, parking or buildings, and
shall not apply to undisturbed areas retained in a natural state.
         B.  Preservation of existing vegetation as much as is reasonably
possible and in conformance with applicable regulations.
         C.  Provision for landscaping compatible with the surrounding area.
         D.  Screening for parking areas when possible either by placement or
by use of vegetation, berms, fencing, or other means. At least ten (10) feet of
screening area of at least six (6) feet in height must be provided for parking
areas adjacent to residential property.
         E.  Landscaping shall be a combination of canopy trees, ornamental
trees, evergreen trees, shrubs, flowers, sod, ground cover and other site
design features, and shall use of new plant material that blends with existing
vegetation and is hardy and indigenous in this area. Tree replacement levels
and species shall be consistent with the City Tree Preservation Ordinance.
         F.  Protection of existing watercourses or of water retention areas
that may be required for water runoff. Screening of service and storage areas,
exterior work areas, refuse storage and removal facilities, and other similar
activities incidental to the principal use of the site.
         G.  Landscaping and vegetation management consistent with the
Shoreland Overlay District, where applicable.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.51. PARKING.
      Subd. 1. Off-Street Parking and Loading; Screening.
         A.  Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces in Certain Districts. Off-
street parking and loading spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
specifications in this Subdivision when any new use is established or any
existing use is enlarged in the B-1 Highway Service Business District, the B-
2 Central Business District, the I-1 Limited Industrial District, the I-
2 Industrial District and the I-W Industrial District Water Related. For any
commercial, industrial or institutional use, off-street parking spaces and,
where appropriate, loading spaces shall be provided in accordance with the
schedule prescribed by rule of the Planning Commission and adopted and
confirmed by resolution of the Council. Such schedule shall be based on
accepted standards, shall take into account the anticipated demand for parking
or loading space by employees and patrons of the use, and shall be related to
the number of employees, floor space, seats or other measure or combination of
measures appropriate to the particular use. Parking and loading spaces shall be
adequate in size to accommodate the vehicles expected to use them, and shall be
properly drained and maintained.
         B.  The number of off-street parking spaces provided shall be at least
the minimum number provided in the schedule referred to in Subparagraph A,
above, and included in Section
11.52. When a building is enlarged, off-street parking shall be required only
with respect to the additional usable floor area. When computing the square
foot area of a building for parking space requirements, only the areas normally
open to the public shall be considered.
         C.  For the purposes of carrying out the intent of Subparagraph A,
above, for any use not specifically mentioned in the schedule of off-street
parking and loading requirements, the number of spaces required shall be that
required for that use named in the schedule determined by the Zoning
Administrator to be most similar.
         D.  Improvement and Maintenance. Required parking and loading spaces,
together with driveways, aisles and other circulation areas, shall be improved
in such a way as to provide a durable and dust-free surface. All parking and
loading areas shall provide for proper drainage of surface water to prevent the
drainage of such water onto adjacent properties or walkways. The owner of any
parking or loading area shall maintain the area in good condition, without
holes and free of all dust, trash and other debris.
         E.  Parking Permitted in Adjacent Residential Zones. Parking
requirements, as herein established for the zones specified in Subparagraph A,
above, may be provided in those portions of adjacent residential zones located
within one hundred fifty (150) feet of the zones specified in Subparagraph A,
above. Such parking in adjacent residential zones is further limited in that
the parking shall be located within three hundred (300) feet of the principal
use for which it is being provided.
         F.  B-2 Standards from the Parking Ordinance. On-street and designated
shared parking lots in the vicinity of the property may be included as part of
the parking requirement and shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         G.  Prior Use.  Structures for which a permit has been issued prior to
the effective date of this chapter, but for which work has not been completed,
shall be exempt from parking requirements stated herein, if the structure is
completed within six (6) months after the effective date of this chapter.
         H.  Benches and Seating in Place of Public Assembly. Each twenty-two
(22) inches of such seating facilities shall be counted as one (1) seat for the
purpose of determining requirements of this Chapter.
         I. Parking Spaces.  Each parking space shall be not less than eight
and one-half (8½) feet wide and nineteen (19) feet in length, exclusive of an
adequately designed system of access drives.
         J. Use of Parking Facilities. Off-street parking facilities located in
a residential zone shall not be used for the over-night parking or storage of
commercial vehicles.
         K. Joint Facilities. Off-street parking facilities for one (1) or more
uses may be provided at a common site.
         L. Control of Off-Street Parking Facilities. When required, if off-
street parking facilities are provided elsewhere than on the lot in which the
principal use is located, the site shall be in the same ownership or control by
either deed or long-term lease.
         M. Use of Parking Area. Required off-street parking space in any
district shall not be utilized for the open storage of goods or for the storage
of inoperative vehicles.
         N. Available On-Street Parking.  Available on-street parking adjacent
to the property may be included as part of the parking requirement and
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         O. Design and Maintenance.
            1. Parking Areas. Parking areas shall be designed to provide
adequate means of access to a public alley or street. Such driveway access
shall not exceed twenty-two (22) feet in width at the property line. Access
drives, when designed parallel to the front property line or to a side street
lot line, shall be six (6) feet or more from the property line.
            2. Signs. Signs necessary for orderly operation of traffic movement
shall be permitted and not considered as a part of the allocated sign space.
            3. Surfacing. All the area intended to be utilized for parking
space and driveways shall be surfaced with material to control dust and
drainage. Parking areas for less than three (3) vehicles shall be exempt. Plans
for surfacing and drainage shall be subject to approval by the Zoning
Administrator.
            4. Lighting.  Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking
area shall be so arranged to reflect the light away from the adjoining
property.
            5. Curbing and Landscaping.  All open off-street parking designed
to have head-in parking along the property line shall provide a wheel curb not
less than three (3) feet from the property line, or a guard of normal bumper
height not less than one (1) foot from the property line. The yard setback
areas shall have grass or planting to the sidewalk.
            6. Fence.  When a required off-street parking space for six (6)
cars or more is located adjacent to an “R” District, a fence or foliage of
adequate design, not over six (6) feet in height and not less than four (4)
feet in height, shall be provided along the “R” District property line but not
within the required front yard.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.52. PARKING MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards will be applied for off-street parking
requirements for any new use within the city:
      Subd. 1. Off-Street Parking Requirements by Use/District.
         A. B-1 Highway Business District. For 7th Avenue frontage:
            1.   Buildings less than or equal to five thousand (5,000) square
feet: two (2) required off-street spaces.
            2.  Buildings greater than five thousand (5,000) square feet: four
(4) required off-street spaces.
         B. B-2 Central Business District.
         No commercial minimum requirements.
         C.  Residential Uses. All residential uses will be required to provide
one (1) space per dwelling unit in any district.
         D.  Commercial, Industrial and Institutional Properties.  All other
commercial, industrial and institutional properties will be required to provide
one (1) space of parking for every five hundred (500) square feet of gross
floor space.
         E. Adjustments.
            1. Except for properties with frontage along 7th Avenue, the
required parking spaces can be reduced by Zoning Administrator up to fifteen
percent (15%) with a simple parking plan.
            2. Except for properties with frontage along 7th Avenue, minimum
required parking spaces may be further reduced with an engineered traffic plan
approved by Zoning Administrator/Planning Commission.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.53. DESIGN STANDARDS.
      Subd. 1. B-1 Highway Commercial District Design Standards. The intent of
the B-1 Highway Commercial design guidelines is to project the image and
character of an attractive and distinctive gateway into the City, support long-
term quality development, and mitigate negative impacts that may result from
new development.
         A.  Buildings must have a clearly defined base, middle, and top.
         B.  Facades should be oriented vertically.
         C.  Buildings of more than fifty (50) feet in width shall be divided
into smaller increments through articulation of the facade. This can be
achieved through combinations of the following techniques:
            1. Stepping back or extending forward a portion of the facade.
            2. Vertical divisions using different textures or materials
(although materials should be drawn from a common palette).
            3. Division into storefronts, with separate display windows and
entrances.
            4. Variation in roof lines by alternating dormers, stepped roofs,
gables or other roof elements to reinforce the modulation or articulation
interval.
            5. Arcades, awnings, window bays, arched windows and balconies at
intervals equal to the articulation interval.
            6. Providing a lighting fixture, trellis, tree or other landscape
feature with each interval.
         D.  All light fixtures shall be to be shielded or directed to ensure
that light is not directed onto adjacent properties. Consider fixtures that
will not contribute to dark-sky lighting.
         E.  Buildings are encouraged to be oriented to the street, with doors
and windows facing the street.
         F.  Ground floor windows are encouraged.
         G. Building Materials. Facades visible from the street or public
right-of-way shall be finished with face brick, stucco, glass, wood, natural
stone, specifically designed pre-cast concrete units whose surfaces have been
integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture, or other
material as may be approved by the Zoning Administrator. Combinations of such
materials shall be permitted.
      Subd. 2. B-2 Downtown Waterfront Commercial Design Standards. The purpose
of the Downtown Waterfront Commercial District design standards is to support
the vitality of the downtown business district by preserving its character,
encouraging a walkable district, and preventing conditions that lower property
value and create blight.
         A.  Buildings must have a clearly defined base, middle and top.
         B.  Facades should be oriented vertically.
         C.  Buildings of more than fifty (50) feet in width shall be divided
into smaller increments through articulation of the facade. This can be
achieved through combinations of the following techniques:
            1. Stepping back or extending forward a portion of the facade.
            2. Vertical divisions using different textures or materials
(although materials should be drawn from a common palette).
            3. Division into storefronts, with separate display windows and
entrances.
            4. Variation in roof lines by alternating dormers, stepped roofs,
gables or other roof elements to reinforce the modulation or articulation
interval.
            5. Arcades, awnings, window bays, arched windows, and balconies at
intervals equal to the articulation interval.
            6. Providing a lighting fixture, trellis, tree or other landscape
feature with each interval.
         D.  All light fixtures shall be to be shielded or directed to ensure
that light is not directed onto adjacent properties. Consider fixtures that
will not contribute to dark-sky lighting.
         E.  A minimum of thirty percent (30%) of the ground level facade up to
nine (9) feet above grade shall be transparent (windows and doors). Reflective
or glass tinted more than forty percent (40%) is not allowed. This standard
should be applied to newly constructed buildings or where there is a
substantial modification, and is encouraged for all other buildings. This
standard applies only to the primary frontage for corner lots. The second
frontage for corner lots may substitute other tools to indicate pedestrian
orientation.
         F.  The color of buildings should complement the adjacent buildings’
colors and include a complementary mix of colors.
         G.  Roof lines for new buildings should complement neighboring
properties.
         H.  Buildings are encouraged to be oriented to the street, with doors
and windows facing the street.
         I. Building Materials.  Facades visible from the street or public
right-of-way shall be finished with face brick, stucco, glass, wood, natural
stone, specifically designed pre-cast concrete units whose surfaces have been
integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture, or other
material as may be approved by the Zoning Administrator. Combinations of such
materials shall be permitted.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.54. DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
      Subd. 1.  The City may, at its sole discretion, require the owner and
developer of a project permitted under this Chapter to execute a development
agreement that may include, but not be limited to, any conditions of approval,
utilities, roads and other infrastructure.
      Subd. 2. The development agreement may require the developers to provide
an irrevocable letter of credit or performance bond in favor of the City.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.55 through 11.59, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE SIX: DISTRICT-SPECIFIC STANDARDS
SEC. 11.60. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD) DISTRICT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
      Subd. 1. Scope. PUDs may be used as an overlay zoning district over any
base zoning district or combination of districts. The PUD process provides an
alternative to traditional development under other zoning and subdivision
standards of the City. This Section shall not be applied to single-family
residential lots incapable of further subdivision due to lot size, or as a
means to avoid other procedures more appropriately reviewed as variance
applications.
      Subd. 2. Coordination with Subdivision Regulations. If a PUD involves the
subdivision of land, then the subdivision review shall be carried out under
Chapter 12 of the City Code simultaneously with review of the PUD. The plans
required under this Section shall be submitted in a form that also incorporates
the requirements of
Chapter 12 of the City Code for the preliminary and final plat.
      Subd. 3. Coordination with Provisions of the S-O, Shoreland Overlay
District. When reviewing proposals for PUDs in the S-O Overlay District, staff
shall consider whether the PUD proposal meets the standards and criteria in
Section
11.61, Shoreland Overlay District. If there is a case where the standards and
criteria in Section
11.61 are not consistent with those in this Section, the standards contained in
this Section shall apply.
      Subd. 4. Minimum Lot Area. Planned unit developments shall have no
minimum area requirement, except that PUDs shall not be applied to single-
family residential lots incapable of further subdivision due to lot size, or as
a means to avoid other procedures more appropriately reviewed as variance
applications.
      Subd. 5. Allowed Uses. The PUD order may only authorize uses permitted in
the zoning district where the land is located or permitted with a conditional
use permit in the zoning district where the land is located, except
neighborhood scale commercial and services that accommodate the daily
convenience needs of surrounding residential areas may be incorporated into a
residential PUD. If a conditional use is within an approved PUD, no conditional
use permit is required to be obtained.
      Subd. 6. Height.
         A. Buildings in PUDs shall not exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height,
unless the Planning Commission determines that a taller structure will not
create an adverse impact, and measures have been taken to reduce visibility of
the structure as viewed from Lake Superior, Trunk Highway 61, and other roads
and adjacent shorelands. Under no circumstances may a structure permitted as
part of a PUD exceed fifty (50) feet in height. In waterfront areas along and/
or on the lakeside of the downtown loop of the North Shore Scenic Drive All-
American Road, the City may also require a building to be less than thirty-five
(35) feet in order to protect views of the waterfront from the downtown area.
This loop consists of Waterfront Drive, South Avenue, 1st Avenue and Park Road.
In order to assist in this decision, the City will require the following from
the project applicant:
            1. A detailed explanation as to the reason for the desired increase
in height.
            2. A detailed explanation of how the increased height will not
create an adverse visual impact.
            3. Drawings or other visual renderings that show what the proposed
development will look like from Highway 61, Lake Superior, Two Harbors
Lighthouse, Depot and other areas as requested by the City Administrator.
      Subd. 7. Bonus Density.
         A. Purpose for Bonus Densities.  Bonus densities are intended to
provide the incentive to encourage the development of affordable housing,
provide additional public amenities, or preserve valuable natural or cultural
resources and features. The satisfaction of any of the bonus density criteria
specified in Subsection D. of this Subdivision is considered to be in the
public interest and worthy of a bonus density.
         B.  Eligibility for Bonus Densities.  Eligibility to obtain a bonus
density is based upon site plan review and approval by the City as part of the
preliminary PUD plan process. Such bonus densities may be granted to deserving
applications if the PUD plan submitted is judged by the City to have achieved
one (1) or more of the bonus density criteria.
         C.  Maximum Bonus Density. The maximum bonus density allowed is
limited to an additional thirty percent (30%) over the density allowed in the
underlying zone district. In addition to criteria provided in this Subdivision,
the density shall be compatible with the site’s natural constraints and the
character and density of the surrounding area. Compatibility for bonus density
shall also be determined by proximity of the site to arterial roads, transit
service, employment and shopping areas, and planned amenities.
         D.  Basis for Approval of Bonus Density. Upon submittal of the PUD
application, the Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed project and
submit a report to the Planning Commission, containing recommendations and
proposed findings of fact and conclusions with respect to the allocation of
bonus densities for the project. The allocation of bonus densities should be
based upon a comprehensive review of the entire project. It is the intention of
this Section to allow bonus densities where a PUD applicant proposes design
attributes providing public benefits in addition to those required by local,
state or federal land use or environmental regulations. Bonus densities will
not be allowed for site design proposals that merely reflect mandatory
requirements of local, state and federal codes or regulations. Consideration of
the following criteria should be given:
            1. Preservation of Open Space and Natural, Historical and Cultural
Features (Exceeding Mandatory Code Requirements).  Items for consideration in
meeting this criterion may include the preservation and minimum disturbance of
natural features and wildlife habitat; preservation of unique historical or
cultural features; preservation of open space; dedication to the City of land
within the City’s park or open space areas and corridor as designated in the
comprehensive plan; and preservation of air, sunlight and scenic resources.
            2. Public Service and Facility Availability (Exceeding Mandatory
Code Requirements). Items for consideration in meeting this criterion may
include the provision of public schools; public park or other public facilities
and/or sites; bicycle and pedestrian pathway systems; and special site design
for special needs residents to situate or cluster uses within a reasonable
distance of fire and police protection, medical, shopping, church and other
such amenities.
            3. Energy Efficiency (Exceeding Mandatory Code Requirements). Items
for consideration in meeting this criterion may include preservation of solar
access; south orientation with added glazing for inhabited structures; the use
of landscaping and topography for windbreaks and shading; common wall
construction; transportation management strategies; the use of solar energy
systems, either passive or active, for heating and/or cooling; energy-
conserving design of roadways and other structures; and higher insulation
levels.
            4. Public Recreation Facilities (Exceeding Mandatory Code
Requirements). Items for consideration in meeting this criterion may include
provision for public recreational features such as tennis courts, active play
areas, swimming pools, passive open space areas, bicycle and pedestrian pathway
systems.
            5. Environmental Design (Exceeding Mandatory Code Requirements).
Items for consideration in this Subparagraph may include onsite designs
providing regional benefits, including drainage control using natural drainage
and landscaped, drainage-retention facilities; significant public access
provided to designated potential open space or park areas, shoreline areas,
trails, scenic sites and viewpoints; provision for substantial and exceptional
landscape treatment; and the use of recycled materials and resource-conserving
designs.
            6. Affordable Housing (Exceeding Mandatory Code Requirements).
Items for consideration include the provision of a mix of housing types,
utilization of townhouses, condominiums and apartments directed to providing a
reasonable mix or diversity of bona fide, affordable-housing opportunities for
a diverse segment of the community. Bonus densities will also be allowed for
projects providing low-income housing in market-rate developments. In such
developments and other developments seeking bonus densities for the provision
of low-income housing opportunities, the amount of bonus will be linked to the
level of affordability, i.e., the lower the cost or rental rate per unit, the
greater the bonus afforded to the development. Density bonuses for low-income
housing projects will be granted only where all the following conditions are
satisfied:
               (a) The developer must agree to sell or rent the units to
qualifying residents (i.e., only low-income and very-low-income households);
               (b) The developer must ensure the continued affordability of the
units by qualified residents for a minimum of forty (40) years through the use
of restrictive covenants or other deed restrictions approved by the City; and
               (c) The units must be of an innovative design and compatible
with existing neighborhood character, with adequate assurances that such design
and compatibility will be maintained throughout the forty (40)-year period.
            7. Other Criteria. Other suitable items believed by the City to be
worthy of consideration may also be included as a bonus density criterion.
      Subd. 8. Transient Unit. The following definition applies to all projects
proposed in the planned unit development overlay district. A “Transient Unit”
is a unit in a bed-and-breakfast inn, inn, hotel, motel, motor hotel, hotel-
motel complex, condominium, timeshare complex, or so-called, interval-ownership
complex, designed for and offering one (1) or more lodging units to travelers
and transient guests for temporary lodging and sleeping purposes.
      Subd. 9. Open Space Requirements. Open space preservation shall be equal
to the underlying base zoning district.
         A. At least forty percent (40%) of the structure setback must be
preserved as open space when the setback is being measured from Lake Superior.
         B.  Road rights-of-way, land covered by road surfaces, parking areas,
and all structures are considered developed areas and shall not be included in
the computation of minimum open space.
         C.  Open space may include improved outdoor recreational facilities
for use by owners, guests of the dwelling units, occupants of transient units,
or the public.
      Subd. 10. Hydrology (Wetland, Stormwater, and Associated Management
Standards). Lake County administers regulations affecting hydrology on behalf
of the City. When applicable, PUDs will be reviewed according to Article 8
(Hydrology) in the Lake County Land Use Ordinance. A decision on applicability
of the Lake County Land Use Ordinance will be made at the application
conference.
      Subd. 11. Procedure for Processing a Planned Unit Development.  As
described below, there are four (4) stages to the PUD process: application
conference, concept plan, preliminary pud plan, and final plan.
         A. Application Conference.  Before filing an application for a PUD,
the developer of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend a conference
with the City Administrator, City Planner, Building Official and relevant local
and state agencies that may have permitting responsibilities as part of the
application. The primary purpose of the conference shall be to provide the
developer with an opportunity to gather information and obtain guidance as to
the general suitability of the proposal for the area for which the PUD is
proposed, and its conformity to the provisions of
Chapter 11 of the City Code, before incurring substantial expense in the
preparation of plans, surveys and other data.
         B. Concept Plan.
            1. Purpose. The concept plan provides an opportunity for the
developer to submit a plan to the City, showing the basic intent and the
general nature of the entire development, without incurring substantial costs
for architectural, planning, engineering, legal or other services. The plan
shall include the following:
               (a) Overall maximum PUD density.
               (b) Specific location of major streets and pedestrian ways.
               (c) Location and extent of public and common open space.
               (d) Staging and time schedule of development.
               (e) Other special criteria for development.
               (f) Specific location of residential and nonresidential land
uses with approximate type and intensities of development.
               (g) A narrative statement, substantiating how the proposed
development will be superior or more innovative than conventional development
undertaken through the City’s land use regulations. The statement shall also
substantiate how the proposed PUD will provide a benefit to the public beyond
what is available through conventional development.
            2. Public Process.  The concept plan may be considered at a public
hearing before the Planning Commission at the discretion of the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the City
Council with respect to the concept plan. The City Council may also, at the
discretion of the City Council, hold a public hearing to consider the concept
plan.
            3. Approval/Disapproval. The City Council shall approve or
disapprove the concept plan at a regular meeting of the City Council. An
approval of a concept plan by the City Council is not a final approval of the
proposed PUD, but merely an authorization for the developer to apply for a
preliminary PUD plan and preliminary plat, if applicable. A disapproval of a
concept plan by the City Council is without prejudice to the developer
submitting another concept plan for the City for its consideration.
            4. Preliminary Plan. Following approval of the concept plan, the
developer shall, if developer desires to proceed further with the PUD, submit a
preliminary PUD plan and preliminary plat, if applicable, an application for
the approval of them, and all supporting data and documentation (all the
foregoing is collectively the application). The application must be submitted
within one (1) year of the approval of the concept plan. The application shall
proceed and be acted upon in accordance with the requirements of Subsection E.
of this Subdivision.
         C.  Preliminary PUD Plan Applications. Ten (10) copies of the
following exhibits, analysis and plans shall constitute the application and
must be submitted to the City:
            1. If applicable, preliminary plat and information required by the
City's Subdivision Ordinance.
            2. General Information.
               (a) The landowner’s name and address and interest in the
property and proposed project.
               (b) The applicant’s name and address if different from the
landowner.
               (c) The names and addresses of all professional consultants who
have contributed to the development of the PUD plan being submitted, including
the attorney, land planner, engineer, architect and surveyor.
               (d) Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
property to effectuate the proposed PUD plan, including a statement of all
legal, beneficial, tenancy and contractual interests held in or affecting the
property, and including an up-to-date certified abstract of the title or
registered property report, and such other evidence as the City Attorney may
require to show the status of the title or control of the subject property.
               (e) The name of the proposed development (which shall not be
duplicated or similar in pronunciation to the name of any plat or PUD order
previously recorded in Lake County).
            3. Present Status.
               (a) The address and legal description of the property.
               (b) The existing zoning classification and present use of the
property and all lands within three hundred fifty (350) feet of the property.
               (c) A map, depicting the existing development of the property,
its total acreage, all land within three hundred fifty (350) feet thereof, and
indicating the location of existing streets, property lines, easements, water
mains, storm and sanitary sewers, with invert elevations on and within one
hundred (100) feet of the property.
               (d) A written statement generally describing the proposed
development that will constitute the PUD ("project description") and the market
it is intended to serve, its demand, its relationship to the City’s
comprehensive plan, and how the proposed PUD plan is to be designed, arranged
and operated in order to permit the development in accordance with the
applicable regulations of the City and in a manner compatible with the use of
neighboring properties.
                (e)  Site Conditions. Graphic reproductions of the existing
site conditions at a maximum scale of 1 inch = 100 feet.
                  (1) Contours; minimum two (2)-foot intervals.
                  (2) Location, type and extent of tree cover.
                  (3) Slope analysis.
                  (4) Soil conditions as they affect development.
                  (5) Significant rock outcroppings.
                  (6) Existing drainage patterns.
                  (7) Vistas and significant views.
                  (8) Location and extent of water bodies, wetlands and streams
and floodplains on or within three hundred (300) feet of the property.
                  (9) Other information as requested by the City Zoning
Administrator.
                  (10) All of the graphics should be the same scale as the
preliminary plat, if applicable, and PUD plan to allow easy cross-reference.
The use of overlays is recommended for clear reference.
               (f) A schematic drawing of the proposed development concept,
including but not limited to, the general location of major traffic (vehicle
and pedestrian) circulation elements, public and common open space, residential
and other land uses, and a vegetation management plan where appropriate.
               (g) A statement of the estimated total number of dwelling units
proposed for the PUD plan, and a tabulation of the proposed approximate
allocations of land use, expressed in acres and as a percent of the total
project area, which shall include at least the following:
                  (1) Area devoted to residential units.
                  (2) Area devoted to residential units by building type.
                  (3) Area devoted to transient units.
                  (4) Area devoted to transient units by building type.
                  (5) Area devoted to common open space.
                  (6) Area devoted to public open space.
                  (7) Approximate area devoted to streets.
                  (8) Approximate area and floor area devoted to industrial or
office use.
                  (9) Approximate area and floor area devoted to commercial
uses.
                  (10) Approximate area devoted to, and number of, off-street
parking and loading spaces and related access.
                  (11) Area devoted to outdoor recreational areas for use by
owners, guests of dwelling units, occupants of transient units, or the public.
               (h) When the PUD plan is to be constructed in stages during a
period of time extending beyond a single construction season, a schedule for
the development of such stages or units shall be submitted, stating the
approximate beginning and completion date for each such stage or unit, and the
proportion of the total PUD public or common open space and dwelling units to
be provided or constructed during each such stage, and an overall chronology of
development to be followed from stage to stage.
               (i) When the proposed PUD plan includes provisions for public or
common open space or service facilities, a statement describing the provisions
that are to be made for the care and maintenance of such open space or service
facilities.
               (j) Any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded with
respect to property included in the proposed PUD plan.
               (k) Schematic utility plans indicating allocation of water,
sanitary and storm sewers.
               (l) The City may excuse an applicant from or delay the time for
submitting any specific item of information or document required in this stage
that it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal
at that time.
               (m) The City may require the submission of any additional
information or documentation that it may find necessary or appropriate to full
consideration of the proposed PUD plan.
            4. Preliminary PUD Plan and Plat Consideration.
               (a) Within thirty (30) days after verification by the City
Zoning Administrator that the preliminary PUD plan, preliminary plat, if
applicable, and supporting data are adequate, the Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing on the preliminary PUD plan and preliminary plat, if
applicable.
               (b) The Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and
report its findings and make recommendations to the City Council, including its
specific findings and recommendations regarding any recommended bonus
densities. Notice of the hearing shall consist of a legal property description,
description of preliminary PUD plan, preliminary plat, if applicable, and
project description, and shall be published in the official newspaper at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing. At least ten (10) days prior thereto,
written notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to owners of land
within three hundred fifty (350) feet of the boundaries of the property
proposed for development.
               (c) The City may request additional information from the
developer concerning any matters it deems appropriate or retain expert
testimony at the expense of the developer concerning such other matters.
               (d) The City Council may hold a public hearing after the receipt
of the report and recommendations from the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission fails to make a report within sixty (60) days after receipt of the
application, then the City Council may proceed without the report. The City
Council may approve the preliminary PUD plan and preliminary plat, if
applicable, and attach such conditions as it deems reasonable, or deny the
preliminary PUD plan and preliminary plat, if applicable.
         D. Final PUD Plan, Final Plat. Following preliminary PUD plan and
preliminary plat approval, if applicable, the applicant shall submit the final
PUD plan and final plat, if applicable. Following preliminary PUD plan and
preliminary plat approval, if applicable, the applicant shall submit the final
PUD plan and final plat within one (1) calendar year. No PUD approval shall be
valid for a period longer than one (1) calendar year unless a building permit
is issued. However, upon written request of the applicant, the three hundred
sixty-five (365)-day period may be extended by the City Council for such time
as it shall be determined and for good cause shown, without further hearing. If
appropriate because of the limited scale of the proposal, the preliminary plan/
plat stage and final plan/plat stages may proceed simultaneously.
            1. Within thirty (30) days after verification by the City Zoning
Administrator that the final PUD plan, final plat, if applicable, and
supporting data are adequate, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on the final PUD plan and final plat, if applicable.
            2. The Planning Commission shall conduct the public hearing and
report its findings and make recommendations to the City Council, including its
specific findings and recommendations regarding any recommended bonus
densities. Notice of the hearing shall consist of a legal property description,
description of final PUD plan, final plat, if applicable, and project
description, and shall be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10)
days prior to the hearing. At least ten (10) days prior thereto, written
notification of the hearing shall also be mailed to owners of land within three
hundred fifty (350) feet of the boundaries of the property proposed for
development.
            3. The City may request additional information from the developer
concerning any matters it deems appropriate or retain expert testimony at the
expense of the developer concerning such other matters.
            4. The City Council may hold a public hearing after the receipt of
the report and recommendations from the Planning Commission. If the Planning
Commission fails to make a report within sixty (60) days after receipt of the
application, then the City Council may proceed without the report. The City
Council may approve the final PUD plan and final plat, if applicable, and
attach such conditions as it deems reasonable, or deny the final PUD plan and
final plat, if applicable.
            5. Final PUD Plan. The final PUD plan and final plat, if
applicable, are the approved preliminary PUD plan and approved preliminary
plat, if applicable, along with the satisfaction of any conditions imposed on
the preliminary PUD plan approval and preliminary plat approval, if applicable.
The final PUD plan shall include, but not be limited to:
               (a) A final plat, if applicable, and information required by the
City's Subdivision Ordinance (
Chapter 12 of the City Code).
               (b) Ten (10) sets of the final PUD plan, drawn to a scale of a
maximum of 1 inch = 100 feet (or such scale requested by the City Zoning
Administrator), containing at least the following information:
                  (1) The name of the development.
                  (2) Property boundary lines and dimensions of the property,
and any significant topographical or physical features of the property,
including any wetlands on the property.
                  (3) The location, size, use and arrangement, including height
in stories and feet, and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor
area of proposed buildings, including manufactured homes and existing buildings
that will remain, if any.
                  (4) Location and dimensions of all driveways, entrances, curb
cuts, parking stalls, loading spaces and access aisles, and all other traffic
circulation (pedestrian, bicycle and vehicle) elements; and the total site
coverage of all such traffic circulation elements.
                  (5) Location, designation and total area of all common open
space.
                  (6) Location, designation and total area proposed to be
conveyed or dedicated for public open space, including parks, playgrounds,
school sites and recreational facilities.
                  (7) Proposed lots and blocks, if any, and numbering system.
                  (8) Location use and size of structures and other land uses
on adjacent properties.
                  (9) Detailed sketches and provisions of proposed landscaping.
                  (10) Detailed grading and drainage plans for the developed
PUD.
                  (11) Any other information that may have been required by the
Planning Commission or Council in conjunction with approval of the preliminary
PUD plan.
               (c) An accurate legal description of the entire area within the
PUD for which final PUD plan approval is sought.
               (d) A tabulation indicating the number of residential dwelling
units and/or transient units and expected population.
               (e) A tabulation indicating the gross square footage, if any, of
commercial and industrial floor space by type of activity (e.g., drug store,
dry cleaning, supermarket).
               (f) Preliminary architectural "typical" plans indicating use,
floor plan, elevations and exterior wall finishes of proposed building,
including manufactured homes.
               (g) A detailed site plan, suitable for recording, showing the
physical layout, design and purpose of all streets, easements, rights-of-way,
utility lines and facilities, lots, block, public and common open space,
general landscaping plan, structures, including manufactured homes, and uses.
               (h) Detailed grading and site alteration plan, illustrating
changes to existing topography and natural site vegetation. This plan should
clearly reflect the site treatment and its conformance with the approved
concept plan and approved preliminary PUD plan.
               (i) A soil erosion control plan, acceptable to any agency with
review authority, clearly illustrating erosion control measures to be used
during construction and as permanent measures.
         E. Amendments.
            1. Minor changes in the location, placement and heights of the
buildings or structures may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator, if
required by engineering or other circumstances not foreseen at the time the
final plan was approved.
            2. Major changes, such as rearrangement of lots, blocks and
building tracts, require a public hearing and renegotiated development
agreement. All changes shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of the
original approved final development plan and the comprehensive plan. All
amendments to the development agreement shall require the same procedures as
for the application for a conditional use permit as set forth in the
ordinances. Major changes include:
               (a) An additional use, a more intensive use, or an increase in
the parking requirement.
               (b) Changes in design, bulk, mass or orientation.
               (c) A reduction in the effectiveness of approved transitional
screening, buffering or landscaping, and any reduction in common open space or
areas subject to preservation. Substantial changes in the location or type of
pedestrian or vehicular access or circulation.
               (d) Changes in the phasing schedule that change the timing,
amount or completion of common open space, public facilities, or other
improvements.
         F.  Control and Map Designation.  
            1. The final development plan of the PUD shall control the
development of the PUD, rather than any other provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance. The plan shall be numbered and kept on file with the City.
            2. Upon approval of the final PUD, the PUD boundaries shall be
noted on the official zoning map as it is amended from time to time. The map
shall include a numbered reference to the final PUD on file with the City.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.61. SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
      Subd. 1. Purpose and Authority.
         A.  This Shoreland Overlay District is adopted pursuant to, and
complies with Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 105, and Minnesota Regulations, Part
6120, Subpart 1(a).
         B.  The provisions of this overlay district are in addition to the
requirements of this Chapter as they apply to the land use district underlying
this overlay district. Where provisions of this district are more restrictive,
they shall apply; where provisions of an underlying district are more
restrictive, they shall apply.
         C.  The provisions of this district shall apply to all lands within
the City as shown on the official zoning map, and as further defined as the
North Shore Management Planning Area, Minnesota Regulations, Part 6120, Subpart
1(a).
         D.  The policy fundamentals of Minnesota Regulations, Part 1620,
Subpart 1(a) (The North Shore Management Plan), are hereby adopted by
reference.
         E.  Permitted and conditional uses in the "S-O" District shall be
consistent with the underlying zoning district and the shoreland management
areas and policies of Minnesota Regulations, Part 6120, Subpart 1(a).
      Subd. 2. Intensity of Use and Height Regulations.
         A.  The minimum lot size shall be ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
         B.  The structure setback from the ordinary high water mark of rivers
and streams shall be seventy-five (75) feet, and forty (40) feet from the
vegetation line on Lake Superior, except lesser setbacks may be allowed in all
districts, except the Parks and Recreation District, after certification from a
licensed engineer that the building site is stable, not subject to slumping,
shore-line erosion or wave run-up, and public access to the shoreline is
provided wherever possible.
         C.  The structure setback in areas identified as erosion hazard areas
on the official zoning map shall be one hundred twenty-five (125) feet from the
top edge of the eroding bluff, or a distance equal to the annual erosion rate
times fifty (50) plus twenty-five (25) feet from the top edge of the eroding
bluff. The structure setback may be modified by variance if the landowner
provides technical data proving a different erosion rate, or that the erosion
hazard, although correctly estimated, can be mitigated by structural
protection.
         D.  Lot Width.  The minimum lot width shall be seventy-five (75) feet
at the vegetation line for lots abutting Lake Superior and seventy-five (75)
feet wide at the structure setback line.
         E.  Building Height.  The maximum building height is thirty-five (35)
feet in all districts, except I-1, I-2 Industrial Districts in which districts
the maximum building height is seventy (70) feet.
         F.  Floor Elevation Above Water Level. The lowest floor elevation for
new structures shall be three (3) feet above the highest known water level, or
one (1) foot above the one hundred (100)-year-storm, wave run-up elevation on
Lake Superior, as determined by a licensed engineer.
         G. Lot Coverage by Impervious Surfaces. Lot coverage by impervious
surfaces shall not exceed twenty-five percent (25%), unless a surface water
runoff plan certified by a registered professional engineer is submitted and
approved by the Zoning Administrator. The surface water runoff plan shall
contain, at a minimum, provisions for sediment entrapment and erosion control
in order to minimize impacts on the receiving waters.
      Subd. 3. Shoreland Alterations.
         A.  Vegetation Management.
            1. A vegetation management plan will be required for total
vegetation removal of over ten thousand (10,000) square feet or twenty-five
percent (25%) of the lot area, whichever is greater.
            2. Removal of woody vegetation shall be restricted on bluffs, steep
slopes and within the structure setback area to maintain stable soil
conditions.
            3. Removal of woody vegetation shall be limited. Screen vegetation
shall be required to screen structures, clear cuts, parked vehicles or other
facilities from public roads and Lake Superior. Selective removal of woody
vegetation shall be allowed to provide a reasonable view of the lake from
individual residences.
            4. Clear cutting shall not be permitted unless part of an approved
site development plan, with the exception of an authorized public service such
as public roads and utilities.
            5. Removal of woody vegetation shall be restricted as much as
possible along DNR-designated trout streams to provide for shade coverage, and
to help keep stream temperatures at proper levels.
            6. Cutting, pruning and trimming of trees shall be based on sound
forest management practices for each individual tree species.
            7. Private driveways shall blend into the existing terrain as much
as possible and public utility lines to private landowners shall be buried if
at all possible.
         B. Wetlands.
            1. Alterations to wetlands shall not be permitted unless part of an
approved site development plan. Any alterations shall be first permitted by the
DNR and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as required.
            2. Alterations to wetlands, if permitted, shall require suitable
mitigation.
            3. Wetland shall be identified on site development plans.
         C.   Grading and Filling, Erosion Control.
            1. An erosion and sediment control plan shall be required for
excavations exceeding one thousand (1,000) square feet or one hundred (100)
cubic yards, or fill exceeding one thousand (1,000) cubic yards within the
structure setback area. Shoreland alterations done in connection with work
authorized by a building or sewage disposal permit shall be exempt from the
erosion control plan requirement.
            2. Erosion and sediment control plans shall be reviewed by the Lake
County Soil and Water Conservation District and approved by the Zoning
Administrator prior to the start of the land alteration work.
            3. Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
insures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible.
            4. Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetative cover must be
established as soon as possible.
            5. Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediment before
they reach any surface water feature must be used. Such methods shall be in
place before development occurs.
            6. Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the Field Office Technical Guides of the Lake County
Soil and Water Conservation District and the U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
            7. Fill or excavated material must be stabilized to prevent erosion
and slope failure.
            8. Fill or excavated material must not be placed on steep slopes,
except as designated by qualified professionals.
            9. Approved permanent erosion control practices should be
maintained.
            10. Alterations below the ordinary high water level of lakes and
streams shall follow accepted practices. Any alterations shall be first
permitted by the DNR and the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, as required.
      Subd. 4. Erosion Hazard Areas.
         A.  Site development plans shall be required and approved by the
Zoning Administrator for all new construction in erosion hazard areas as shown
on the official control map for the City.
         B.  The burden of proof concerning the suitability of land in
designated erosion hazard areas is the responsibility of the project proponent.
         C.  The site development plan shall include a description of:
            1. Surface runoff, including roof drains.
            2. Subsurface runoff.
            3. Vegetation removal, including proposed landscaping.
            4. Proposed sewage treatment systems.
            5. Topography of site.
            6. Structure and driveway location.
            7. Potential bluff toe protection.
            8. Slope alterations.
            9. Other pertinent information as requested.
         D.  The site development plan shall include setback and shoreline
erosion control recommendations and shall be consistent with the shoreland
alteration provisions of this Chapter.
      Subd. 5. Planned Unit Development Standards and Criteria.
         A. Goal. It is the goal of these standards and criteria to provide
uniform standards for the optimization of development opportunities and maximum
environmental protection on any given planned unit development site.
         B.  Approval Process. A PUD in the Shoreland Overlay shall be subject
to the requirements of Section 11.60, Planned Unit Development Standards, and
the additional criteria in Subdivision C., below.
         C.  Design Criteria.
            1. Structures, parking areas and other facilities must be designed
and placed to reduce visibility as viewed from Lake Superior, roads and
adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or
other means acceptable to the City, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
            2. Units, recreation facilities, and commercial uses must be
clustered into one (1) or more groups and located on suitable areas of the
development site.
            3. Areas with physical characteristics unsuitable for development
in their natural state, such as wetlands or areas containing significant
historic sites, shall be preserved as open space.
            4. The development must also provide access to developed public
roads.
            5. The development will be serviced by the City’s municipal sewage
and water supply systems.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.62. MIXED-USE WATERFRONT DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
      Subd. 1. Development Regulations.
         A.  Uses Within Enclosed Buildings. All businesses, services or
processing shall be conducted within an enclosed building, except for outdoor
dining areas and temporary events.
         B.  Transient Unit. A “Transient Unit” is a unit in a bed-and-
breakfast inn, inn, hotel, motel, motor hotel, hotel-motel complex,
condominium, timeshare complex or so-called, interval-ownership complex,
designed for and offering one (1) or more lodging units to travelers and
transient guests for temporary lodging and sleeping purposes.
         C.  View and Access Corridors. Preservation of view corridors that
allow visual and actual access to the lake and harbors solidify the perception
of the waterfront character. Designated view and access corridors are of
particular importance. New building construction and landscaping should be
designed to not block or compromise these corridors. In addition to views and
access, open space along the water’s edge will be required to allow views and
access to the water and water-related activities.
         D.  General Site Development Framework. Developments throughout the
Mixed-Use Waterfront District (MUW) shall contribute to capturing the authentic
spirit of the maritime history of the City. By considering the impact of new
development, this spirit can be promoted. Along with views of and access to the
water and water-related activities, use of water- and boating-related
artifacts, architectural features and historical interpretive devices in
construction are encouraged to carry out the waterfront theme. Use of
traditional regional architectural styles and related artifacts will help
ensure cohesiveness and harmony with the overall character of the district. The
following is a framework around which site plans should be designed in the MUW
District.
            1. The development must provide linkages between the Lake Superior
waterfront and adjacent neighborhoods.
            2. The development must provide distinctive entries and gateways
within the Waterfront District.
            3. The development must maintain pedestrian scale to buildings,
when appropriate.
            4. The development must maintain pedestrian linkages using
walkways, plazas and boardwalks.
            5. The development must create public places as destinations along
pedestrian linkages.
            6. The development must carefully place signs, sign supports and
sign structures to integrate with the scale, color and detail of the building
design, while complying with the sign provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
            7. The development must locate buildings within the Mixed-Use
Waterfront District (MUW) to take advantage of views of Lake Superior, while
not impairing scenic views from the North Shore Scenic Drive, downtown, and
adjacent residential neighborhoods.
         E.  Access. Pedestrian access to the water’s edge is important to
allow a direct, tangible experience of the waterfront, as well as to ensure
visual access. Thus, promenades, walkways and shared pathways along the
shorelines to provide comfortable access are encouraged in all waterfront
properties and developments.
         F.  Scale, Texture. In addition to encouraging the retention of
historic buildings, new developments shall emulate the scale and texture of
historic structures within the City. Matching the existing pattern of building
heights in the area will also emphasize the traditional, human scale of the
district. To strengthen and enhance the historic feel of this area, new
construction should repeat and harmonize with the scale, height, proportion and
texture of the historic buildings in proximity to the development.
         G.  Architectural Compatibility. Due to the mixed-use nature of the
development, architectural compatibility is necessary in order to visually
integrate development and allow for proximity of various uses. Acceptable
exterior building materials within the MUW District should include brick, wood,
stone and ornamental iron. The uses of such materials, along with traditional
building techniques, are intended to promote and enhance the waterfront
character of the district, while providing a harmonious cohesiveness between
old and new structures. Where additions to historic buildings are proposed,
materials should match as closely as possible, as should the patterns created,
and mortar, in the case of brick buildings. In general, brick and stone
buildings should not be painted.
            1. Residential buildings shall be constructed of brick or wood
siding, replicating the architectural styles of Two Harbors historic
neighborhoods.
            2. Commercial and public buildings visible from public streets
shall be constructed of brick, or material similar in appearance or texture to
existing commercial and public buildings in proximity to the development.
            3. Screening walls shall be made of materials that match the
principal structure.
      Subd. 2. Submission of Plans Required. No erosion shall commence and no
one shall change any use or erect or enlarge any structure in the MUW District,
without first obtaining all required approvals. No use shall be carried on and
no construction shall be undertaken except as provided in the permits approved
for such use or construction.
      Subd. 3. Commercial-Urban Area. The MUW District is hereby determined and
declared to be a Commercial-Urban Area (CU) for purposes of the North Shore
Management Plan.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.63 through 11.69, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE SEVEN: ADMINISTRATION AND PROCEDURES
SEC. 11.70. ENFORCEMENT.
      Subd. 1. Duties.  It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator to
enforce this Chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall receive applications
required by this Chapter, issue permits and furnish the prescribed
certificates. He or she shall examine premises for which permits have been
issued and shall make inspections necessary to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this Chapter.
      Subd. 2. Right of Appeal. At the time a permit is issued, the applicant
shall be made aware, by the Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator, of his
or her right to appeal to the Board of Zoning Appeals should his or her
application be rejected due to his or her intended use of land or structure on
land and structure being in conflict with regulations set down in this Chapter.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.71. BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS.
      Subd. 1. Establishment.  An administrative board, to be known as the
"Board of Zoning Appeals", is hereby established. The Board shall consist of
the seven (7) members of the Council. Their terms shall be identical to their
term of office on the Council. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation. The Board may designate and employ an officer of the City to act
as its secretary, and such other officer or official shall not be entitled to a
vote nor to additional compensation.
      Subd. 2. Proceedings. Meetings of the Board shall be held at the call of
the chairperson and at such other times as the Board may determine. The
chairperson or, in his or her absence, the acting chairperson may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. The presence of at least four (4)
members of the Board shall be necessary to constitute a quorum.
         A.  The Board shall adopt its own rules and procedures. The Board
shall keep a record of its proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon
each question or, if absent or failing to vote, indicating such fact. The Board
shall also keep records of its hearings and other official actions. Findings of
fact shall be included in the minutes, in which of each requested variation or
appeal shall be specified.
         B.  All records of proceedings, findings, determinations and actions
of the Board shall be filed immediately in the office of the Board and shall be
a public record. All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
      Subd. 3. Hearings; Appeals; Notices. Appeals to the Board may be taken by
any person aggrieved by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board
of Zoning Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning
Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting
the record of the action from which the appeal is taken.
         A.  The Board shall fix a reasonable time and place for the hearing of
the appeal, shall give due notice thereof to the parties in interest, and shall
render a decision within a reasonable time.
         B.  Any person may appear and testify at the hearing, either in person
or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
      Subd. 4. Powers and Duties. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the
power and duty to hear and decide, in accordance with the provisions of this
Chapter, the following:
         A.  Administrative Review.  The Board shall have the power to hear and
decide appeals, filed as hereinbefore provided, where it is alleged by the
appellant that there is error in any order, requirement, decision,
determination, grant or refusal made by the Zoning/Building Inspector in the
enforcement and interpretation of the provisions of this Chapter.
         B. Temporary Structure and Uses. The Board may authorize the temporary
use of a structure or premise in any district prescribed elsewhere in this
Chapter for the district in which it is located, provided that the use is of a
temporary nature and does not involve the erection of a substantial structure.
         C. Interpretation of Zoning Chapter and Map. Where the street or lot
layout actually on the ground, or as recorded, differs from the street and lot
lines as shown on the zoning map, the Board, after notice to the owners of the
property and after public hearing, shall interpret the map in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of this Chapter. In the case of any question
as to the location of any boundary line between zoning districts, or where
there is uncertainty as to the meaning and intent of a textual provision of
this Chapter, a request for interpretation of the zoning map or textual
provision in question may be made to the Board, and a determination shall be
made by the Board.
         D.  Conditional Uses.  The Board shall have the powers to hear and
decide, in accordance with the provisions of this Chapter, applications filed
as hereinbefore provided for conditional uses. In considering an application
for a conditional use, the Board shall request and receive written reports and
recommendations from the Zoning Administrator and the Planning Commission
regarding the application. The Board shall give due regard to the nature and
condition of all adjacent uses and structures and, in authorizing a conditional
use, may impose such requirements and conditions, in addition to those
expressly stipulated in this Chapter, as the Board may deem necessary for the
protection of adjacent properties and the public interest.
         E.  Variances.  Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 462.357, Subd.
6, as it may be amended from time to time, the Board shall have the power to
authorize variances from the terms, provisions or requirements of this Chapter.
A “Variance” is a modification or variation of the provisions of this Chapter
as applied to a specific piece of property.
      Subd. 5. Variance - Findings. No variance shall be authorized by the
Board unless the Board makes factual findings that support conclusions that:
         A.  The variance is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
this Chapter.
         B.  The variance is consistent with the comprehensive plan of the
City.
         C.  The property owner applying for the variance establishes that
there are practical difficulties in complying with the terms of this Chapter.
The property owner also demonstrates and the Board makes factual findings that
support conclusions that:
            1. The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by this Chapter; and
            2. The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to
the property not created by the landowner; and
            3. The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality, neighborhood or district in which it is located.
      Subd. 6. Conditional Use - Findings. When asked to grant a conditional
use, the Board should make its decision to accept or reject the use based upon
a sound, logical study of the problem, after studying the following factors:
         A.  The location and size of the proposed conditional use, the nature
and intensity of the operations involved or to be conducted in connection with
it. Its site layout and its relation to streets giving access to it should be
such that traffic to and from the use will not be more hazardous or
inconvenient to the predominant character of the district or conflict with the
normal traffic or the district, both at the time and as the same may be
expected to increase with the development of the City.
         B.  In addition to the foregoing, the Board shall consider the
following criteria in making a decision on any conditional use. No conditional
use permit shall be approved unless positive findings are made with respect to
each and every one of the following criteria:
            1. The proposed development is likely to be compatible with
development permitted under the general provisions of the City Code on
substantially all land in the vicinity of the proposed development.
            2. The proposed use is consistent with the City’s overall
comprehensive plan, and with the spirit and intent of the provisions of the
City Code.
            3. The proposed use will not result in a random pattern of
development with little contiguity to existing programmed development, and will
not cause negative fiscal and environmental effects upon the community.
            4. The proposed use or development is permitted under the general
provisions of the City Code.
            5. The establishment, maintenance or operation of the use will not
be detrimental to nor endanger the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare. In making its findings, the Board shall be guided by the following
policies:
               (a) The proposed use shall have a favorable property tax impact.
               (b) Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other
facilities must be provided by either the City or the applicant.
               (c) The development will be adequately served by police and fire
protection.
               (d) The development will be adequately served by water and sewer
facilities.
            6. The proposed use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of the environment, or injurious or detrimental to the rightful use and
enjoyment of other property in the vicinity of the proposed development, nor
will it substantially diminish or impair the existing property values within
the vicinity of the proposed development. In making its finding, the Board
shall be guided by the following policies:
               (a) The proposed use will not have an adverse economic impact
upon neighboring, noncompetitive commercial uses.
               (b) Adequate measures shall be taken to provide ingress and
egress, minimizing traffic congestion in the vicinity. The Board may consider
not only the traffic impact of the individual use, but also the role that the
use will play in the cumulative traffic pattern within the vicinity.
               (c) The proposed use shall provide for aesthetic appeal equal to
or greater than existing uses in the area. Aesthetic factors shall be
considered with a view towards the highest possible use of the area. In making
its determination, the Board shall consider the size, shape, general
appearance, structural materials, and landscaping of the proposed use.
               (d) The proposed use shall be compatible with existing
development and foster the goals and objectives of the comprehensive plan.
               (e) The use shall not cause or tend to promote commercial or
industrial imbalances that would adversely affect property values, or that
would adversely affect the nodal or center concept of commercial development.
               (f) The proposed use shall eliminate conflicts with adjacent
land uses by providing, where necessary, buffer zones, dividing and screening,
fencing, parking areas and limitations on the number of entrances and exits.
            7. The establishment of the proposed use will not impede normal and
orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property for uses
permitted within the district. In making its finding, the Board shall be guided
by the following policies:
               (a) The use shall be consistent with the plan of other units of
the government having jurisdiction over the area of the proposed use. Such
plans include, but are not limited to, airport zoning ordinances and plans of
the Minnesota Department of Transportation.
               (b) The proposed use shall be consistent with future public
development programs, including, but not limited to, community facilities plans
and capital improvement programs.
      Subd. 7. Decisions.
         A. In exercising the above-enumerated powers, the Board may reverse or
affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the other requirements, decision or
determination from which an appeal has been taken, to the extent and manner
that the Board may decide to be fitting and proper in the premises, and to the
end that the appeal is taken. The concurring vote of four (4) members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is authorized by this Chapter to render a
decision.
         B. No order of the Board, permitting the erection or alteration of a
building or the use of a building or premises, shall be valid for a period
longer than six (6) months, unless a building permit for such erection or
alteration is obtained and the work is started within such period or, where no
erection or alteration is necessary, the permitted use is established within
such period.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SEC. 11.72. NONCONFORMING LOTS, LAND USES AND STRUCTURES.
      Subd. 1. Intent. Within the districts established by this Chapter, or
amendments that may later be adopted, there exist lots, land uses and
structures that were lawful before the effective date of this Chapter, or the
amendment thereof, but which would be prohibited under the terms of this
Chapter or a future amendment.
         A.  It is the intent of this Chapter to permit these non-conformities
to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival. Such
uses are declared by this Chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
district involved. It is further the intent of this Chapter that non-
conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor shall they
be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in
the same district.
         B.  A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land,
or a nonconforming use of a structure and land, shall not be extended or
enlarged after the effective date of this Chapter, or its amendments, by the
attachment of additional signs to a building, or by the placement of additional
signs or display devices on the land outside the building, or by additional
uses, if such additions are of a nature that would generally be prohibited in
the district involved.
         C.  To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed
to require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any
building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective
date of this Chapter, or amendment thereof, and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on. “Actual Construction” is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in a permanent
position and fastened in a permanent manner, and the demolition, elimination
and removal of an existing structure in connection with such construction,
provided that actual construction work shall be diligently carried on until the
completion of the building involved.
      Subd. 2. Nonconforming Lots of Record.
         A.  In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this Chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any
single lot of record on the effective date of this Chapter or amendment
thereof. Such lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous frontage
with other lots in the same ownership. This provision shall apply even though
the lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are
generally applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and other
requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lot, shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which it is located. Variance of area,
width and yard requirements shall be obtained only through action of the Board
of Appeals.
         B.  If two (2) or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of
lots with continuous frontage are in single ownership and are of record on the
effective date of this Chapter, or amendment thereof, and if all or part of the
lots do not meet the requirements for lot width and area, as established by
this Chapter, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel,
and no portion of the parcel shall be used or sold that does not meet lot,
width and area requirements established by this Chapter, nor shall any division
of the parcel be made that leaves remaining any lot with width or area below
the requirements stated in this Chapter.
      Subd. 3. Nonconforming Uses of Land. Where, on the effective date of this
Chapter or amendment thereof, lawful use of land exists that is no longer
permissible under the terms of this Chapter as enacted or amended, the use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
         A.  No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied on the effective
date of this Chapter or amendment thereof.
         B.  No such nonconforming use shall be moved, in whole or in part, to
any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by the use on the effective
date of this Chapter amendment thereof.
         C.  If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than ninety (90) days, any subsequent use of the land shall
conform to a regulation specified by this Chapter for the district in which it
is located.
      Subd. 4. Nonconforming Structures.  If a lawful use of a structure, or of
a structure and premises in combination, exists on the effective date of this
Chapter or amendment thereof, which would not be allowed in the district under
the terms of this Chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
         A.  No such structure may be enlarged, extended, converted,
reconstructed or structurally altered, unless the use of the structure is
changed to one permitted within the district in which such building is located.
         B.  Should such structures be destroyed by any means to the extent of
more than seventy-five percent (75%) of its assessed value at the time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this Chapter.
         C.  Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
      Subd. 5. Nonconforming Uses of Structures. If a lawful use of a
structure, or of a structure and premises in combination, exists on the
effective date of this Chapter or amendment thereof, that would not be allowed
in the district under the terms of this Chapter, the lawful use may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the following
provisions: No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
Chapter in the district in which it is located, shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered, except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
         A.  Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building that were manifestly arranged or designed for such use on the
effective date of this Chapter or amendment thereof, but no such use shall be
extended to occupy any land outside such building.
         B.  If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or of a structure and premises, may be changed to another
nonconforming use, provided that the Board of Appeals, either by general rule
or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is
equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Appeals may require
appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the provisions of this
Chapter.
         C.  Any structure, or any structure and land in combination, in or on
which a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the district in which it is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
         D.  When a nonconforming use of a structure, or of a structure and
premises in combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six (6) consecutive
months, or for eighteen (18) months during any three (3)-year period, the
structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
         E.  When a nonconforming use status applies to a structure and
premises in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall
eliminate the nonconforming status of the land.
      Subd. 6. Repairs and Maintenance.  On any building devoted, in whole or
in part, to any nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of twelve
(12) consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of
non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding ten
percent (10%) of the current assessed value of the building, provided that the
cubical space content of the building as it existed on the effective date of
this Chapter, or amendment thereof, shall not be increased.
         A.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building, or part
thereof, declared to be unsafe by any City official charged with protecting the
public safety, upon the order of that official.
         B.  Nothing in this Chapter shall be deemed to prevent the replacement
of the heating system, or a part of the heating system, the wiring or the
plumbing, fixtures or other energy-related modifications of any building by
work done within or without the structure, even though it may result in an
improved structure, upon such reasonable terms and conditions as may be
established by the Board of Zoning Appeals. The procedure for any such
determination shall conform as near as may be done to the procedures for the
granting of conditional use permits.
         C.  Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the proper
maintenance or common improvement of any residential use with frontage along
Highway 61/7th Avenue that existed at the adoption of this chapter; except it
is not to be construed to allow the structure to be converted, reconstructed or
structurally altered, unless the use of the structure is changed to one
permitted within the district in which it is located. Should such structures be
destroyed by any means to an extent of more than seventy-five percent (75%) of
its assessed value at the time of destruction, reconstruction shall be
constrained to the original building’s footprint.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.73 PERMITS AND PLANS; APPLICATION FOR ZONING PERMITS.
      Subd. 1. Application. To obtain a permit, the applicant shall first file
an application therefor in writing on a form furnished for that purpose. Every
such applicant shall:
         A.  Identify and describe the work to be covered by the permit for
which application is made.
         B.  Describe the land on which the proposed work is to be done, by
lot, block, tract, house and street address, or similar description that will
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed building or work.
         C.  Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed work is
intended.
         D.  Be accompanied by plans and specifications.
         E.  Be signed by the permittee, or his or her authorized agent, who
may be required to submit evidence to indicate such authority.
         F.  Give such other information as reasonably may be required by the
Zoning Administrator.
      Subd. 2. Zoning Permits.
         A.  Issuance. The application, plans and specifications filed by an
applicant for a permit shall be checked by the Zoning Administrator. The plans
may be reviewed by other departments of the City to check compliance with the
laws and City Code provisions under their jurisdiction. If the Zoning
Administrator is satisfied that the work described in an application for
permit, and the plans filed therewith, conform to the requirements of this
Chapter and other pertinent laws and City Code provisions, and that the fee
specified has been paid, he or she shall issue a permit therefor to the
applicant.
         B.  Expiration. Every permit issued by the Zoning Administrator under
the provisions of this Chapter shall expire by limitation and become null and
void, if the building or work authorized by the permit is not commenced within
one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the permit, or if the building
or work authorized by the permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after
the work is commenced for a period of one hundred twenty (120) days. Before the
work can be recommenced, a new permit shall be first obtained to do so, and the
fee therefor shall be one-half (½) the amount required for a new permit for the
work, provided no changes have been made or will be made in the original plans
and specifications for the work; and provided further, that the suspension or
abandonment has not exceeded one (1) year.
      Subd. 3. Site Plans Required.
         A.  In order to provide an orderly process for the development of land
in the City, and to provide for the City’s review of development proposals, a
site plan must accompany all applications for permits required under this
Chapter. No permit or building permit can be issued until a site plan is
submitted, reviewed and approved.
         B.  The required site plan for construction of a single-family or two-
family dwelling, or of an accessory building on a single conforming lot, shall
include lot boundaries, outlines of existing and proposed buildings, dimensions
and sufficient other information to determine conformance with setback, side
yard and rear yard requirements. A more detailed site plan may be required if
the proposal falls within any of the provisions of Section
11.61, Shoreland Overlay District.
         C.  The site plan for commercial and industrial development and
residential development of more than two (2) units shall include the following:
            1. Information, including lot boundaries, outlines of existing and
proposed buildings, dimensions and sufficient other information, to determine
conformance with setback, side yard and rear yard requirements.
            2. Information regarding the present conditions on the site,
including dimensions, topography, existing vegetation, wetlands, significant
natural and manmade features, adjoining or intersecting streets, highways,
trails or rights-of-way, and such other information needed to review the
proposal.
            3. Information regarding the proposed project, including clearing,
grading, access, parking, all structures and utilities information as needed to
review the proposal.
            4. A stormwater runoff plan.
            5. A wetlands delineation and mitigation plan if required by Lake
County.
            6. An erosion and sediment control plan.
            7. Site development information required under Section
11.61, Shoreland Overlay District, if in an erosion hazard area.
            8. A traffic and parking plan per Section
11.51
            9. A landscaping design plan per the conditions set for in Section
11.50.
         D.  Upon request of the applicant, the Zoning Administrator shall
convene all relevant City departments and officials and other units of
government to meet with the applicant to review the proposal, and to assist the
applicant in determining what permits and other applications may be required,
and the process for completing all reviews. Appeals to decisions of the Zoning
Administrator will be heard by the Planning Commission.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.74. INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this Chapter, the least
restrictive requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare shall be imposed.
It is not intended by this Chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any
ordinances, rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued, which
are not in conflict with any of the provisions of this Chapter, or which shall
be adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or
premises and likewise not in conflict with this Chapter; nor is it intended by
this Chapter to interfere with, abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or
other agreements between parties, except that, if this Chapter imposes a
greater restriction, this Chapter shall control.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.75. AMENDMENT.
   The Council may amend this Chapter after public hearing, whenever the public
necessity, convenience or the general welfare requires amendment pursuant to
the following procedure: Amendments may be proposed by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, the Planning Commission, a petition of not less than fifty percent
(50%) of the property owners involved by the proposed amendment, or by the
Council itself. Before any amendment is made, it shall be referred to the
Planning Commission, which shall report thereon within thirty (30) days after
the referral. Thereafter, the Council may adopt the amendment by a majority
vote of all its members. However, when a zoning district is changed, in whole
or in part, from residential to commercial or industrial, the Council may
approve the amendment only by a two-thirds () majority vote of all of its
members.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.76. BURDEN OF PROOF.
   It shall be the duty and burden of an applicant for any permit or approval
under the Zoning Code to demonstrate and prove that the conditions or
requirements for the issuance of a permit or approval have been satisfied.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
SECTION 11.77. FEES AND EXPENSES.
   A. The Council shall, by resolution, establish a schedule of fees, charges
and expenses for permits, certificates, appeals, other documents and actions
required by the provisions of this Chapter. The schedule shall be available at
the office of the Zoning Administrator. No permits, certificates, conditional
use permits, planned unit development, or variances shall be issued unless and
until such fees, charges or expenses have been paid in full, nor shall any
action be taken on proceedings before the Board of Zoning Appeals, unless or
until fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full.
   B. Any costs directly related to an application for a permit including, but
not limited to professional fees and expenses incurred by the City for
consultants, including but not limited to planners, engineers, architects and
attorneys, who the City determines in its sole judgment are necessary to assist
the City in reviewing, implementing or enforcing the provisions of the City
Code applicable to such permit, shall be reimbursed to the City by the
applicant from a deposit made by the applicant with the City. The amount of the
deposit, or any addition thereto required by the City, shall be established by
the City Council, which shall thereafter, from time to time, make an accounting
thereof to the applicant.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.78-11.79 reserved for future expansion.)
ARTICLE EIGHT: DEFINITIONS
SEC. 11.80. DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, as used in this Chapter, shall have the meanings stated
in this section. The word "building" shall include the word "structure", and
the word "lot" shall include the word "plot".
1. "Accessory Structure or Use" - A subordinate building or structure or use,
or a portion of the main building, the use of which is incidental to that of
the dominant use of the main building or premises.
2. "Adult Use, Accessory" - The offering of goods and/or services, as defined
by Section
6.31 of the City Code, classified as printed matter and/or video tapes on a
limited scale that is incidental to the primary business activity in the
establishment, and where such items occupy no more than:
   A.  Ten percent (10%) of the floor space of the establishment dedicated to
retail sales or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less; and
   B.  Ten percent (10%) of the wall space of the establishment dedicated to
retail sales or one hundred (100) square feet, whichever is less.
3. "Adult Use, Principal" - The offering of goods and/or services classified as
adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or establishment as
regulated and defined by Section 6.31 of the City Code.
4. "Alley" - A public thoroughfare that affords only a secondary means of
access to abutting property.
5. "Automotive Repair" - An establishment primarily engaged in providing repair
and maintenance services for automotive vehicles, such as passenger cars,
trucks and vans, and all trailers. This definition does not include sales of
automotive vehicles. (NAICS industry 8111)
6. "Basement" - A story having part but not more than one-half (½) its height
below grade. A basement is counted as a story for the purpose of height
regulations, if subdivided and used for business or dwelling purposes by
someone other than a janitor employed on the premises.
7. "Boarding House" - A building other than a hotel where, for compensation and
by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging are provided for three
(3) or more persons, but not more than twenty (20) persons.
8. "Building" - Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals or property. When separated by dividing walls without openings, each
portion of such building so separated, shall be deemed a separate building.
9. "Building, Height of" - The vertical distance from the grade to the highest
point of the coping of a flat roof, or to the average height of the highest
gable of a pitch or hip roof.
10. "Cellar" - A story having more than one-half (½) its height below grade.
11. "Clinic" - An establishment where patients are not lodged overnight, but
are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists
or other health care professionals practicing medicine, dentistry or health
care together.
12. "Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment Repair" - An
establishment primarily engaged in the repair and maintenance of commercial and
industrial machinery and equipment, such as welding repair, or repairing
agricultural and other heavy and industrial machinery and equipment. (NAICS
industry 81131)
13. "Common Open Space" - Land area within a development, not individually
owned or dedicated for public use, that is designed and intended for the common
use or enjoyment of the residents of the development.
14. "Data Processing, Hosting and Related Services" - An establishment
providing the infrastructure for data hosting and/or data processing services.
(NAICS industry group 5182)
15. "District" - Any section, as shown on the district map of the City, for
which the regulations governing the use of buildings and premises or the height
and area of buildings are uniform.
16. "Drive-Through and Drive-In Businesses" - Where services are provided by
any direct means into a vehicle and the customer does not enter or approach the
establishment on foot.
17. "Dwelling" - Any building, or portion thereof, that is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
18. "Dwelling, Multiple" - A building, or portion thereof, designed for
occupancy by three (3) or more families.
19. "Dwelling, Single-Family" - A building designed for occupancy by one (1)
family.
20. "Dwelling, Two-Family" - A building designed for occupancy by two (2)
families.
21. "Dwelling Unit" - One (1) or more rooms in a dwelling designed for
occupancy by one (1) family for living purposes, and having its own cooking and
sanitary facilities.
22. “Dwelling Unit, Accessory” - A subordinate dwelling unit added to, created
within, or detached from a single- or two-family dwelling, but located on the
same lot or parcel as a primary residential structure and owned by the same
owner as the primary residential structure, and providing basic requirements
for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation, and constructed on
compliant permanent footings or foundation, with permanent connections to
public sanitary sewer and water. No recreational vehicle, or structure on a
chassis, shall constitute an accessory dwelling unit.
23. "Entity" - Any corporation, limited liability partnership, partnership,
limited liability company, joint venture or any other legally recognized
business organization.
24. "Erosion Hazard Area" - Those areas of Lake Superior’s north shore where
the long-term average annual rate of recession is one (1) foot or greater per
year as mapped in the North Shore Management Plan.
25. "Family" - One (1) or more persons occupying a premises and living as a
single housekeeping unit as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house or hotel as defined herein.
26. "Gasoline Service Station" - Any building or premises used principally for
the storing, dispensing, sale or offering for sale at retail of automobile
fuels or oils, or for the servicing of motor vehicles.
27. "Frontage" - All the property on one (1) side of a street between two (2)
intersecting streets (crossing or terminating), measured along the line of the
street or, if the street is dead-ended, then all of the property abutting on
one (1) side between an intersecting street and the dead end of the street, but
not including the dead end of the street.
28. "Garage, Private" - An accessory building designed or used for the storage
of not more than three (3) motor-driven vehicles owned and used by the
occupants of the building to which it is necessary.
29. "Garage, Public" - A building, or portion thereof, other than a private or
storage garage, designed or used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring,
selling or storing motor-driven vehicles.
30. "Grade":
   A.  For buildings having walls adjoining one (1) street only, the elevation
of the sidewalk or, if there be no sidewalk, then the elevation of the roadway
at the center of the wall adjoining the street.
   B.  For buildings having walls adjoining more than one (1) street, the
average of the elevation of the sidewalk or, if there is no sidewalk, then the
elevation of the roadway at the center of all walls adjoining the streets.
   C.  For buildings having no wall adjoining the street, the average level of
the finished surface of the ground adjacent to the exterior walls of the
building. Any wall approximately parallel to, and not more than five (5) feet
from, a street line is to be considered as adjoining the street.
31. "Head Shop" - Any retail establishment open to the public that advertises,
displays or offers for sale, transfer or barter:
   A.  Controlled substances, as is defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section
152.01, Subd. 4 (2013), as it may be amended from time to time;
   B.  Analog, as is defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section 152.01, Subd. 23
(2013), as it may be amended from time to time; or
   C.  Drug paraphernalia, as is defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section 152.01,
Subd. 18 (2013), as it may be amended from time to time, regardless of whether
it might also be possible to use drug paraphernalia for a lawful purpose.
32. "Home and Garden Equipment Repair" - An establishment primarily engaged in
repairing and servicing home and garden equipment, such as lawnmowers, snow-
blowers, trimmers and similar equipment. This definition does not include sales
of home and garden equipment. (These services are included in NAICS industry
81141. This definition is not inclusive of establishments for the repair of
appliances and tools categorized as NAICS industry 81141.)
33. "Home occupation" - An occupation or activity carried on in a dwelling or
accessory structure by the resident thereof as a secondary use.
34. "Hospital" - An establishment where patients are admitted for examinations,
diagnosis, treatment and care by physicians and medical practitioners, and
facilities are available for patients to be lodged overnight.
35. "Hotel" - A building in which temporary lodging is provided for and offered
publicly to transient motorists, guests or travelers for compensation, and does
not include any unit in a common-interest community.
36. “Indoor Recreation and Entertainment Facility, Commercial” - A commercial
facility providing entertainment or recreation activities where all activities
take place within enclosed structures, but not including a convention or event
center. Examples include, but are not limited to: bowling, bowling alleys,
trampoline centers, video arcades, climbing-wall, paint-ball or laser-tag
centers, theaters, dance and martial arts studios.
37. “Indoor Recreation and Entertainment Facility, Public” - A public facility
providing entertainment or recreation activities where all activities take
place within enclosed structures.
38. "Industry, General" - The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items. Due to their size, nature, infrastructure
requirements, and greater traffic generation, general industrial uses have
greater adverse impacts on surrounding properties and the environment that
require careful site selection, special measures and the attachment of
conditions to ensure compatibility with surrounding properties and the
environment. Objectionable features include, but are not limited to, noise,
dust, odor, smoke, air and waste emissions, glare, vibration and other features
commonly recognized as hazardous or objectionable.
39. "Industry, Light" - The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items. Light industrial uses create little or no adverse
impacts on surrounding properties and the environment by virtue of being
relatively free from objectionable features, including but not limited to,
noise, dust, odor, smoke, glare or vibration, or whose objectionable features
can be eliminated by design, screening and other appropriate devices, and do
not create objectionable amounts of traffic.
40. "Institution" - A building occupied by a non-profit corporation or a non-
profit establishment for public use.
41. "Licensed Family Day-Care Home, Licensed Group Family Day-Care Home,
Licensed Child-Care Center" - A facility holding a license from Lake County or
Minnesota pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 245A, as it may be amended
from time to time, and/or Minnesota Rules, Chapter 9502 or Chapter 9503, as
they may be amended from time to time.
42. "Light Vehicle Repair" - An establishment primarily engaged in providing
repair and maintenance services for light vehicles, such as motorcycles,
bicycles, boats, small engines, snowmobiles and ATVs. This definition does not
include sales of light vehicles. (These services are included in NAICS industry
81149. This definition is not inclusive of other non-vehicular repair
establishments categorized as NAICS industry 81149.)
43. "Loading Space” - A space on a lot accessible to an alley or a street, not
less than ten (10) feet in width, twenty (20) feet in length and ten (10) feet
in height.
44. "Lot" - A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by one (1) main
building, together with
its accessory buildings, and uses customarily incidental to it, including the
open spaces required by this Chapter, and having its principal frontage on a
street or upon a place as defined in this Chapter.
45. "Lot, Corner" - A lot adjoining two (2) or more streets at their
intersection.
46. "Lot Coverage" - The percentage of lot surface encumbered by impervious
surfaces, including but not limited to, structures, paved parking lots,
sidewalks, and the like.
47. "Lot, Depth of" - The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear
lot lines.
48. "Lot, Double Frontage" - A lot having a frontage on two (2) non-
intersecting streets, as distinguished from a corner lot.
49. "Lot Frontage" - The portion of the lot nearest the street, road or body of
water if the lot abuts water.
50. "Lot, Interior" - A lot other than a corner lot.
51. "Lot Lines” - The lines bounding a lot.
52. "Lot of Record" - A lot that is a part of a subdivision, the plat of which
has been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Lake County,
Minnesota, or a lot described by metes and bounds, the description of which has
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder of Lake County, Minnesota.
53. "Lot Width" - The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the
structure setback line.
54. "Lumber Yards and Heavy Building Materials" - An establishment primarily
engaged in retailing specialized lines of new building materials, such as
lumber, fencing, glass, doors, plumbing fixtures and supplies, electrical
supplies, prefabricated buildings and kits, and kitchen and bath cabinets and
counter tops to be installed. This definition does not include home centers,
paint and wallpaper stores, and hardware stores. (NAICS industry 44419)
55. "Manufactured Home, Class 'A'" - Manufactured housing of modular design
that requires more than one (1) module to form an integral single-family
dwelling unit, and that complies with the following minimum criteria:
   A.  The minimum width of the main body of the home, as assembled on site,
shall not be less than twenty-four (24) feet, as measured across the narrowest
portion, and a minimum of seven hundred fifty (750) square feet of living area;
   B.  The pitch of the main roof shall be not less than one (1) foot for each
four (4) feet of horizontal run. In general, any roofing material may be used
that is generally acceptable for housing built on the site, if applied in such
a manner as to be similar in appearance; provided, however, that flat, sheet-
metal-type panels shall not be considered acceptable for Class "A" manufactured
homes;
   C.  Any materials that meet State Building Code standards generally
acceptable for housing built on the site may be used for exterior finish, if
applied in such a manner as to be similar in appearance; provided, however,
that reflection from such exterior shall not be greater than from siding coated
with clean, white, gloss exterior enamel; and
   D.  The home shall be placed upon a permanent foundation complying with the
minimum standards of the Minnesota State Building Code.
56. " Manufactured Home, Class 'B'" - Manufactured transportable housing built
in conformance with Sections 327.31 to 327.35 of Minnesota Statutes, and
intended for occupancy as a complete, year-round, single-family dwelling unit
upon arrival and placement on a site, with or without a permanent foundation
designed to support such transportable unit. For the purposes of this Chapter,
the term shall include all such transportable housing over twenty-nine (29)
feet in length, less than twenty (20) feet in width, and five thousand (5,000)
or more pounds in weight, containing the same waste water supply, waste
disposal, and electrical conveniences as immobile housing, but shall exclude
housing of modular design where more than one (1) module is required to form an
integral single-family dwelling unit. The term "mobile home" shall be
synonymous and interchangeable with the term "Class B Manufactured Home"
wherever either term shall be used elsewhere in this Chapter.
57. "Manufacturing, General" - An establishment engaged in the basic
processing, manufacturing, packaging, assembly, compounding or treatment of
materials or products predominantly from extracted or raw materials.
58. "Manufacturing, Light" - An establishment primarily engaged in the
manufacture, fabrication, processing, packaging or assembly, predominantly from
previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, generally
excluding processing of raw materials.
59. "Mini-Warehouses and Self-Storage Units" - An establishment engaged in
renting or leasing space for self-storage. These establishments provide secure
space (i.e., rooms, compartments, lockers, containers or outdoor space) where
clients can store and retrieve their goods. This definition refers to the
storage facilities and not necessarily where the business is administered. No
materials of hazardous nature, i.e., toxins, highly flammable and/or similar
materials, shall be stored at such storage units; nor shall there be
warehousing of wholesale and/or retail materials and/or products at such
storage units; nor shall a business be operated from such storage units. (NAICS
industry 53113)
60. "Motel" - A building or group of buildings in which temporary lodging is
provided for and offered publicly to transient motorists, guests or travelers
for compensation, and does not include any unit in a common-interest community.
61. "Nonconforming Structure, Lot or Use" - Any structure, lot, use of land, or
combination thereof, that is contrary to the provisions of the Chapter for the
district in which it is located.
62. "Nursing Home" - A home for the aged, chronically ill or incurable persons,
except for mental or alcoholic patients, in which two (2) or more persons are
received, kept or provided with food and shelter and care for compensation; but
not including hospitals, clinics or similar institutions devoted primarily to
the diagnosis, treatment or care of the sick and injured. Includes assisted
living facilities.
63. “Outdoor Recreation and Entertainment Facility, Commercial” - A commercial
outdoor facility whose main purpose is to provide entertainment or recreation,
including batting cages, drive-in theaters, golf driving ranges, miniature golf
courses, go-cart tracks, skating rinks, skateboard parks, swimming pools,
tennis courts, sports courts, and similar uses, but not including auto- or
horse-race tracks.
64. “Outdoor Recreation and Entertainment Facility, Public” - A commercial
outdoor facility whose main purpose is to provide entertainment or recreation,
including golf, baseball, football, track, tennis, softball, volleyball, and
other competitive and spectator-related recreational activities and sports,
trails, swimming, boating, fishing and other aquatic activities.
65. "Parking Lot" - A parcel of land devoted to unenclosed parking spaces.
66. "Parking Space" - An area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to
store one (1) automobile, together with a driveway connecting the parking space
with a street or alley, and permitting ingress and egress of an automobile.
67. "Passive Recreation" - Emphasizes the open-space aspect of a park and that
involves a low level of development, including, but not limited to, picnic
areas, trails, swimming, non-motorized boating, and structures supporting such
activities.
68. "Place" - An open, unoccupied space other than a street or alley,
permanently reserved as the principal means of access to adjoining property.
69. "Recreation and Entertainment Facility, Private" - Private, non-commercial
recreation areas, including country clubs, golf courses and swimming pools.
70. "Religious Assembly" - A building or space that is principally used as a
place where people of the same faith or religion regularly assemble for
worship.
71. "Professional, Scientific, and Technical Services (Industrial Class)" - An
establishment primarily engaged in providing professional, scientific and
technical activities for others. This sector includes a number of industry
groups that are appropriate for the "I-1" Light Industrial District:
   A.  Architectural, engineering, and related services (includes laboratory
testing, except medical, veterinary or emissions). (NAICS industry group 5413)
   B.  Industrial design services. (NAICS industry group 5414)
   C.  Scientific and technical consulting services. (NAICS industry group
5416)
   D.  Scientific research and development services. (NAICS group 5417)
   E.  Services to buildings and dwellings. (NAICS industry group 5617)
   F.  Veterinary services (NAICS industry 54194) is an allowed conditional
use.
   G.  Incompatible uses include legal services (NAICS industry group 5411);
accounting, tax preparation, bookkeeping, and payroll services (NAICS industry
group 5412); and advertising and related services   (NAICS industry group
5418); and other professional, scientific and technical services (NAICS
industry group 5419), except veterinary services (NAICS industry 54194).
72. "Public Buildings" - Public buildings shall include, but not be limited to,
municipal offices, county offices, including jails and law enforcement centers,
state offices, federal offices, offices of other governmental units, fire
stations, public safety buildings, public buildings for the storage and
warehousing of materials and equipment, teenage centers, community centers,
senior citizens centers, libraries, and buildings in support of and used with
public recreational facilities located nearby.
73. "Public Library" - Any library that provides free access to all residents
of a city or county without discrimination and is organized under the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 134, as it may be amended from time
to time.
74. "Public Market and Market Stand" - Outdoor markets and vendor stands open
to the public, including farmers markets, craft markets, flea markets, and
vendors of other miscellaneous goods, utilizing temporary or permanent vendor
stalls and other structures.
75. "Public Park" - A park, reservation, open space, playground, beach,
recreation or community center in the City owned, leased or used, wholly or in
part, by the City, county, state, school district or federal government for
recreation purposes.
76. "Railroad Yard" - Rail infrastructure and support functions suitable for
large-volume, rail-oriented activities. This land use can be in conjunction
with a separate industrial use or shipyard.
77. "Campground" - An area containing one (1) or more structures designed or
intended to be used as the temporary living facilities of two (2) or more
families, and intended primarily for automobile transients; or providing space
where two (2) or more tents, auto trailers or motor homes (RVs) can be parked.
78. "Residential Care Facility" - Living quarters for those with disabilities
or for seniors located in a facility where a variety of living assistance and
medical-related services are offered to residents.
79. "School" - A building or space that is principally used as a place where
twenty-five (25) or more persons receive a full course of educational
instruction. Any post-secondary or post-high school educational building,
including any college or any vocational-technical college, shall not be deemed
a "school" for purposes of this Section.
80. "Shipyard" - An establishment primarily engaged in providing port and
harbor operations for the water transportation of cargo in the Great Lakes
Water Transportation System. This land use can be in conjunction with, or
independent of, a separate industrial use. (NAICS industry 48831)
81. "Street" - All property dedicated to or intended for public or private
street purposes, or subject to public easements therefor.
82. "Story" - That portion of a building other than a cellar, included between
the surface of any floor and the surface of the floor next above it or, if
there be no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.
83. "Story, Half" - A space under a sloping roof that has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than three (3) feet above
the top floor level, and in which space not more than two-thirds (2/3) of the
floor area is finished off for use. A half story containing independent
apartment or living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
84. "Street Line" - A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and
a contiguous street.
85. "Structure" - Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
permanent location on the ground or attached to something having a permanent
location on the ground, including, but without limiting the generality of the
foregoing, advertising signs, billboards, back stops for tennis courts, and
pergolas.
86. "Structural Alterations" - Any change in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, or
any complete rebuilding of the roof.
87. "Structure Setback" - The minimum horizontal distance between a structure
or other facility, and the vegetation line, road centerline, road right-of-way
line, front, side or rear lot lines.
88. "Structure Setback Line" - A line measured across the width of a lot at a
point where a structure is placed in accordance with the minimum shoreland
setback requirements of this Chapter.
89. "Telecommunications Processing and Transmission Services" - An
establishment primarily engaged in operating and/or providing access to
facilities for the transmission of voice, data, text, sound and video.
Transmission facilities may be based on a single technology or a combination of
technologies. (Telecommunications processing and transmission services are
included under the NAICS subsector 517.)
90. "Townhouse" - A single structure consisting of not less than two (2) or
more than four (4) dwelling units each, with no other dwelling or portion of
other dwelling directly above or below, with each dwelling unit having direct
ground level access to the outdoors, and connected to the other dwelling by a
single party wall with no opening.
91. "Trailer" - Any structure used for living, sleeping, business or storage
purposes, having no foundation other than wheels, blocks, skids, jacks, horses
or skirting, and which has been, or reasonably may be, equipped with wheels or
other devices for transporting the structure from place to place, whether by
motive power or other means. The term "trailer" shall include a camp-car and a
house-car.
92. "Vegetation Line" - The first clearly identifiable line of terrestrial
vegetation above the water’s edge.
93. "Warehousing and Storage" - An establishment primarily engaged in operating
warehousing and storage facilities for general merchandise, refrigerated goods,
and other warehouse products. Such establishments do not sell the goods they
handle, but they may also provide a range of incidental logistical services
related to the distribution of goods. (NAICS industry group 4931)
94. "Wetland" - A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United
States Fish and Wildlife Circular No. 39 (1971 Edition).
95. "Wholesale Trade" - An establishment engaged in an intermediate step in the
distribution of merchandise. Wholesalers either sell or arrange the purchase of
goods to other businesses, and normally operate from a warehouse or office.
They may be in an office building or a warehouse. Unlike retailers, their
warehouses and offices have little or no display of merchandise. (NAICS sector
42)
96. "Yard" - An open space at grade between a building and the adjoining lot
lines, unoccupied and unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the
ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the
purpose of determining the width of a side yard, the depth of a front yard or
the depth of a rear yard, the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line
and the main building shall be used.
97. "Yard, Front" - A yard extending across the front of a lot between the side
yard lines, and being the minimum horizontal distance between the street line
and the main building or any projection thereof.
98. "Yard, Rear" - A yard extending across the rear of a lot, measured between
side lot lines and being the minimum horizontal distance between the rear of
the main building or any projection thereof. On corner lots, the rear yard
shall be considered as parallel to the streets upon which the lot has its least
dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots, the rear yard shall in all
cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the front yard.
99. "Yard, Side" - A yard between the building and the side line of the lot,
extending from the front lot line to the rear lot line, and being the minimum
horizontal distance between a side lot line and the side of the main building
or any projection thereof.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
(Sections 11.81 through 11.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 11.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof. Each day that a violation is
permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
Source: Ordinance No. 123
Effective Date: 07-16-2021
CHAPTER 12
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS (PLATTING)
SECTION 12.01. GENERAL PROVISIONS.
      Subd. 1. Purpose. Pursuant to the authority of the City Charter and
Minnesota Statutes, Section 462.358, this Chapter is adopted for the following
purposes:
         A. To provide for the orderly, economic and safe development of land
and public services.
         B. To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents
of the City.
         C. To assure fair and equitable handling of development proposals by
establishing a uniform subdivision process.
      Subd. 2. Scope This Chapter relates to the division of land into two or
more parcels.
      Subd. 3. Jurisdiction. This Chapter applies to all land within the City
and to all land within two (2) miles of the City boundaries where no town has
established subdivision regulations.
      Subd. 4. Compliance. After the effective date of this Chapter, all
subdivisions of land and transfer of land ownership in the City shall be by
approved and recorded plat. No permit to alter or erect a building shall be
issued until a subdivision plat has been approved by the Council and recorded.
      Subd. 5. Conditions. A plat shall be required when land is divided into
two (2) or more parcels, any of which is less than five (5) acres or any of
which does not front on a public street.
      Subd. 6. Conveyance by Metes and Bounds. No conveyance of one or more
parcels in which the land is described by metes and bounds, or by reference to
an unapproved or unrecorded land survey or subdivision, shall be made after the
effective date of this Chapter.
      Subd. 7. Exemptions. The following conveyances and building permits shall
be exempt from the provisions of this Chapter.
         A. The parcel was a separate recorded lot of record prior to the
effective date of this Chapter.
         B. No parcel of land resulting from the conveyance or division is less
than five (6) acres in size and all resulting parcels have frontage on a public
street.
         C. The parcel relates to a division of a lot which is part of a
recorded plat and the division is to permit adding land to an abutting lot of
record, and no resulting parcel is substandard in terms of this Chapter or the
Zoning Chapter.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
         D. The parcel is less than .10 acre and is conveyed to correct
historical encroachments by adjoining property owners.
Source: Ordinance No. 356
Effective Date: 09-03-98
(Sections 12.02 through 12.09, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 12.10. SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE.
      Subd. 1. Pre-Platting Review and Coordination. The subdivider may review
the proposed subdivision with the City Administrator, other City Officials,
Planning Commission and Council prior to preparing a preliminary plat in order
to coordinate the proposed plat with the Zoning Chapter, site plan
requirements, building code, City plan, public street and facility requirements
and regulations of other levels of government.
      Subd. 2. Preliminary Plat. A request for subdivision shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator and accompanied by a fee if required. The Zoning
Administrator will refer the application and preliminary plat to the Planning
Commission for consideration.
      Subd. 3. Specification for Preliminary Plats. The preliminary plat shall
be prepared by a licensed land surveyor at a scale not more than one hundred
(100) feet to the inch and shall include the name of the subdivision, location
by section, township, range, name of owner(s), subdivider and land surveyor,
date of preparation, scale and true north arrow, certifications by owner and
surveyor as required by law, all significant existing natural and man-made
features, layout and dimensions of all streets, alleys, lots and blocks using
standard techniques and provide sufficient information to show the connection
to the plat to surrounding areas, easement if any, and such other reasonably
needed information.
      Subd. 4. Relation to Zoning Chapter; Site Plan. The subdivider may, at
his option, also include all information required for a site plan by the Zoning
Chapter and submit the site plan and subdivision plat simultaneously. In some
cases this may be required.
      Subd. 5. Public Hearing. Upon receipt of the preliminary plat, the City
Administrator shall set a public hearing of the Planning Commission. Notice of
the hearing shall be published in the official newspaper and be mailed to:
         A. Adjacent property owners of record.
         B. Affected State Agencies.
         C. Lake County Engineer or Minnesota Department of Transportation if
the plat abuts or includes a County State Aid or State Trunk Highway.
      Subd. 6. Plat Information.
         A. The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing and consider
the plat using the following factors:
            1. Consistency with this Chapter.
            2. Consistency with the City Plan.
            3. Consistency with the Zoning Chapter.
            4. Fit with surrounding land and development, and existing and
future subdivision.
            5.  All relevant physical characteristics of the site.
            6. The need for dedication of land for public streets or other
public use.
         B. No preliminary plat can be approved that:
            1. Does not meet the above considerations.
            2. Results in conflicts with zoning regulations.
            3. Does not meet County, State or Federal development requirements.
      Subd. 7. Approval or Disapproval of Preliminary Plat. The Planning
Commission may approve/disapprove or conditionally approve the preliminary plat
and shall forward its recommendation to the Council for approval or
disapproval.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
(Sections 12.11 through 12.19, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 12.20. FINAL PLAT.
      Subd. 1. Submittal and Approval of Final Plat. Within one year of
approval of the preliminary plat the subdivider shall submit a final plat
consistent with decisions made regarding the preliminary plat. Prior to
approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall have installed all required
public improvements, or have executed a formal agreement with the Council
regarding all such improvements. These required public improvements shall
include grading, utilities, storm drainage, street lighting, signage and other
improvements as needed for a completed development. All improvements shall
conform to accepted engineering standards and be in compliance with this
Chapter.
      Subd. 2. Recording of Plat. Within 30 days of approval by the Council of
the final plat, the subdivider shall record the plat with the Lake County
Recorder's Office.
      Subd. 3. Monuments. Monuments of a permanent nature as required by State
Law shall be placed at each corner and angle of the outside boundary of the
subdivision. Steel markers shall be placed at each corner of each lot and
street center line intersection.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
(Sections 12.21 through 12.29, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 12.30. SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
      Subd. 1. Streets and Other Rights-of-Way. Plats shall dedicate to the
City necessary public streets, alleys, drainage ways, and trails in locations
and widths consistent with the City plan, surrounding subdivisions, State and
County road requirements and good engineering practice. Generally, the street
right-of-way shall be seventy feet (70) except where conditions require greater
or lesser width. All right-of-way dedication will be determined prior to
approval of the preliminary plat.
      Subd. 2. Other Public Sites. In a new subdivision the subdivider will be
expected to dedicate, at no cost, sufficient public land for public facilities
to support the needs of the residents and businesses expected to occupy the
subdivision. Reasonable provisions must be made for pedestrian and vehicle
circulation, public facilities, and natural features in a manner consistent
with adjacent subdivisions and the City plan. Where a plat includes a site
needed for a public facility that serves a larger public need, the area shall
be reserved on the plat and made available at fair market value to the
appropriate public body.
      Subd. 3. Intersections. Streets shall intersect at approximately 90
degree angles and never less than 70 degrees. Streets shall connect directly
across an intersection, or if offset, be offset at least 125 feet.
      Subd. 4. Blocks and Lots. Lot sizes shall conform to the Zoning Chapter,
and shall have full frontage on a public street. Lot depth shall not exceed 2-
1/2 times the width at the building line.
      Subd. 5. Dead End Streets or Alleys Prohibited. Each end of all streets
and alleys shall connect to other public streets. A temporary unconnected
street may be permitted in order to connect with an expected future
subdivision. In unusual circumstances, a cul-de-sac of not more than 300 feet
in length and with adequate turn around for all emergency vehicles may be
permitted.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
(Sections 12.31 through 12.39, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 12.40. VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
      Subd. 1. Sale of Lots From Unrecorded Plats. It is unlawful to sell,
trade, or offer to sell, trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land
as a part of, or in conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision
or area located within the jurisdiction of this Chapter unless said plan, plat
or replat shall have first been recorded in the County Recorder's Office of
Lake County.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
      Subd. 2. Receiving and Recording Unapproved Plats. It is unlawful to
present for recording in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land
laid out in building lots and highways, streets, roads, alleys or other
portions of the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, for the
use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and
located within the jurisdiction of this Chapter, unless the same shall bear
thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the Council.
Source: Ordinance No. 356
Effective Date: 09-03-98
      Subd. 3. Penalty. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects or refuses to comply with, or who resists the enforcement of
any other provision of this Chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day
that violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Upon
conviction, whomever is convicted shall be subject to imprisonment for not more
than 30 days and/or a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00.
SEC. 12.41. SEVERABILITY.
   In any case in which the provisions of this Chapter are declared by the
courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, said ruling shall not affect the
validity of the remaining provisions of this Chapter and to this end the
provisions of this Chapter are declared to be severable.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
(Sections 12.42 through 12.49, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 12.50. AMENDMENTS.  
   Amendments may be made to this Chapter by the Council after recommendations
of the Commission following the holding of a public hearing with notice given
in the official newspaper of the City at least ten (10) days in advance of the
hearing.
Source: Ordinance No. 356
Effective Date: 09-03-98
SEC. 12.51. FEE SCHEDULE.  
   The Council may, by resolution, establish a fee schedule.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
SEC. 12.52. SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.  
   If a subdivision of land not in compliance with the terms of this Chapter
occurs then, in that event, the lands involved in such subdivision shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for purposes of this Chapter and
Chapter 11 of the City Code.
Source: Ordinance No. 37
Effective Date: 07-12-2006
(Sections 12.53 through 12.98, inclusive, reserved for future expansion.)
SEC. 12.99. VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
Chapter when he/she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
Source: Ordinance No. 348
Effective Date: 09-06-97
CHAPTER 20
LISTING OF UNCODED ORDINANCES IN EFFECT
      All ordinances described in this Chapter remain in effect after adoption
of the City Code. They are of a permanent and continuing nature as authority
for a specific act which has been performed. These ordinances are of two types,
that generally distinguish them from other provisions of the City Code, either
(l) their texts have no continuing reference value, or (2) they are in the
nature of a contract and of only occasional reference value. For these reasons
it appears justified to list and describe them here only to facilitate finding
them in the event this becomes necessary.
   Water Works Refunding Bonds
      Ordinance No. 41, adopted November 6, 1899, provided for the issuing of
bonds in the amount of $5,000 for the purpose of refunding an equal amount of
outstanding bonded indebtedness payable October 1, 1909 at 5% per annum.
      Ordinance No. 62, adopted November 14, 1904, provided for the issuance of
bonds in the amount of $5,000 for the purpose of refunding an equal mount of
outstanding bonded indebtedness payable October 1, 1914 at 5% per annum.
      Ordinance No. 132, adopted October 4, 1926, provided for the issuance of
bonds in the amount of $10,000 for the purpose of refunding an equal amount of
outstanding bond indebtedness payable October 20, 1946 at 5% per annum.
   Water and Light Improvement Bonds
      Ordinance No. 47, adopted February 1, 1901, provided for the issuance of
$5,500 water and light improvement bonds dated February 2, 1901, payable 10
years from that date at 5% per annum.
      Ordinance No. 56, adopted January 1, 1902, provided for the issuance of
$24,000 on water and light improvement dated January 3, 1903 due and payable 20
years from that date at 5% per annum.
      Ordinance No. 79 adopted October 1, 1909, provided for the issuance, form
and sale of $15,000 of negotiable bonds for the purpose of raising funds to pay
bonds in like amount payable October 1, 1919 at 5% per annum.
      Ordinance No. 85, adopted February 20, 1911, provided for the issuance,
form and sale of $5,500 of negotiable bonds for the purpose of raising funds to
pay bonds in like amount payable February 11, 1921 at 5% per annum.
   Sewer and Drainage Bonds
      Ordinance No. 72, adopted August 15, 1907, provided for the issuance of
$40,000 in sewerage and drainage bonds for the construction of main sewers,
sanitary and storm and combination sewers payable August 15, 1927 at 5% per
annum.
   Establishment of Streets and Alleys
      Ordinance No. 1, adopted July 10, 1888, established the streets and
alleys of the City of Two Harbors. (Chapter 16 of old Code).
   Establishment of Sewer System and System of Street Grades
      Ordinance No. 33, adopted July 29, 1895, established a sewer system and
system of street grades for the City of Two Harbors.
      Ordinance No. 52, adopted June 23, 1902, established a system of street
grades for that part of the City of two Harbors known as East Two Harbors and
the Fourth Addition to Two Harbors.
   Authorization for a Sewage Service Charge
      Ordinance No. 204, adopted October 3, 1953, provided for financing
sewerage service and sewage disposal in the City of Two Harbors.
   Authorization for Construction and Maintenance of Private Sanitary Sewer
      Ordinance No. 228, adopted March 30, 1964, authorizes the construction
and maintenance of a private sanitary sewer and water main within the City
limits and the right of Lake County to connect these facilities to those of the
City.
   Enlargement of Lakeview Park
   Ordinance No. 246, adopted June 21, 1976, dedicates unplatted land adjoining
and adjacent to Lakeview Park to be used for public recreation and other
purposes.
   Ordinance No. 21, amending Ordinance No. 246.
   Boat Launch Lease and Restrictions
   Ordinance No. 295, adopted February 21, 1984, sets forth the location and
regulations governing the Boat Launch Lease Agreement entered into with the
Duluth Missable and Iron Range Railway.
   Sign Development Moratorium
   Ordinance No. 344, adopted September 23, 1996, imposes a moratorium on sign
development for a period of six (6) months, which may be extended for a period
not exceeding that provided by statute.
   Ordinance No. 44, adopted May 27, 2008, imposed a moratorium on signs that
contain an electronic or digitally produced visual image for a period of six
(6) months, starting from April 14, 2008.
   Grant of Telephone Franchise
      Ordinance No. 46, adopted September 10, 1900, grants a telephone
franchise to Thomas Owens or his assigns for a period of 50 years.
   Grant of Cable TV Franchise
      Ordinance No. 256, adopted May 12, 1980, grants a Cable TV Franchise to
North American Communications Corp. for a period of 15 years.
      Ordinance No. 337, adopted April 24, 1995, grants a Cable TV Franchise to
DD Cable Partners, L.P. D/B/A Northland Cablevision, for a period of 15 years.
      Ordinance No. 55, adopted May 10, 2010, grants a Cable TV Franchise to
Mediacom Minnesota LLC, for a period of 10 years.
      Ordinance No. 68, adopted December 19, 2011, grants a Cable TV Franchise
to Lake County, Minnesota until July 1, 2020.
      Ordinance No. 121, adopted May 24, 2021, grants a Cable TV Franchise to
Pinpoint Minnesota, LLC, for a period of 10 years.
   Charter Amendments
   Ordinance No. 75, adopted August 3, 1908, amends Section 3 of Chapter 1 of
the City Charter by changing the boundaries of the Second, Third and Fourth
Wards of the City (Chapter 3).
   Ordinance No. 75-B, adopted May 21, 1962, amends Section 3 of Chapter 1 of
the City Charter by changing the boundaries of each of the four Wards and
divides the Wards into election precincts.
   Ordinance No. 291, adopted January 31, 1983, amends the City Charter by
adding an additional section under Chapter 7 dealing with the powers and duties
of the City Council.
   Ordinance No. 303, adopted February 24, 1986, amends the City Charter to
establish the date for the municipal election to be in accordance with the
Minnesota Uniform Election Day Act.
   Ordinance No. 312, adopted April 10, 1989, amends the City Charter by
changing the position of City Treasurer from elective to appointive.
   Ordinance No. 322, adopted May 6, 1993, repeals Ordinance No. 302 and amends
the City Charter by adopting the Minnesota general election day as municipal
election days for the City of Two Harbors.
   Ordinance No. 30, adopted November 14, 2005, adopting the Two Harbors Home
Charter 2005 as the charter for the City of Two Harbors.
   Ordinance No. 59, adopted November 8, 2010, amends Chapter 5, Sections 2 and
3 of the Two Harbors Home Charter 2005 by establishing the method for electing
a City Council president and vice president and establishing the duties of the
president.
   Ordinance No. 66, adopted November 14, 2011, amends Chapter 5, Section 2 of
the Two Harbors Home Charter 2005 by establishing the method for electing a
City Council president and vice president.
   Ordinance No. 111, adopted October 23, 2017, amends Chapter 5, Section 2 of
the Two Harbors Home Charter 2005 by establishing the method for electing a
City Council president and a vice president.
   Ordinance No. 112, adopted October 23, 2017, amends Chapter 12, Section 2 of
the Two Harbors Home Charter 2005 by establishing the membership, term, and
method of appointment of the Library Board.
   Ordinance No. 113, adopted October 23, 2017, amends Chapter 12, Section 6 of
the Two Harbors Home Charter 2005 by establishing the Library Board’s custody
of library buildings and property; adds Chapter 12, Section 10 of the Two
Harbors Home Charter 2005, granting the Library Board the power to appoint,
compensate and remove the library director, assistants, and staff.
   Annexations
 
Ordinance Number Date of Adoption Brief Description
                                  SW-1/4 of SE-1/4, 30-53N-10W; Southerly 200
298              08-13-84         ft. of S-1/2 of SW-1/4, 30-53N-10W; and part
                                  of NE-1/4, 31-53N-10W.
                                  Section 1, Township 52, Range 11, that part
11               09-09-2002       of Government Lot 2 as described in Book 56
                                  of Deeds, Page 563 in the Office of the
                                  Recorder in said County.
19               07-12-2004       Lot One, Section 31, Township 53, Range 10.
                                 
 
   Zoning Map Amendments
Ordinance Number Date of Adoption Ordinance Number Date of Adoption
Ordinance Number Date of Adoption Ordinance Number Date of Adoption
281              05-24-82         78               06-11-2012
283              06-21-82         79               06-11-2012
297              05-21-84         80               08-13-2012
304              04-28-86         81               08-13-2012
311              03-13-89         82               11-26-2012
316              09-09-91         87               03-25-2013
330              04-25-94         92               10-14-2013
343              09-23-96         99               07-28-2014
Section 5 of 351 10-27-97                          
355              06-08-98                          
Section 3 of 358 12-28-98                          
364              09-27-99                          
365              09-27-99                          
366              09-27-99                          
367              10-21-99                          
368              02-14-2000                        
9                08-12-2002                        
10               08-12-2002                        
14               09-08-2003                        
33               02-27-2006                        
                                                 
 
   Alcoholic Beverages Licensing and Regulation
   Ordinance No. 310, to allow a club liquor license holder to sell
intoxicating liquor twelve (12) Sundays per calendar year.
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Effective Date Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Effective Date Code Section
1, 2nd Series   04-24-2000  05-25-2000     Adopting Code
2, 2nd Series   01-08-2001  09-01-2001     6.52
3, 2nd Series   05-14-2001  06-13-2001     4.40
                                           10.26,
                                           10.27,
6, 2nd Series   02-11-2002  03-13-2002     10.40,
                                           10.70 –
                                           10.72
7, 2nd Series   06-10-2002  07-10-2008     4.40
9, 2nd Series   08-12-2002  09-11-2002     Ch. 20
10, 2nd Series  08-12-2002  09-11-2002     Ch. 20
11, 2nd Series  09-09-2002  10-09-2002     Ch. 20
14, 2nd Series  09-08-2003  10-08-2003     Ch. 20
17, 2nd Series  01-12-2004  02-11-2004     9.02
18, 2nd Series  06-28-2004  07-28-2004     Not Included
19, 2nd Series  07-12-2004  08-11-2004     Ch. 20
20, 2nd Series  09-27-2004  10-27-2004     2.13
21, 2nd Series  01-10-2005  02-09-2005     Ch. 20
22, 2nd Series  05-09-2005  06-08-2005     Not Included
23, 2nd Series  05-09-2005  06-08-2005     2.60
                                           2.40 -
24, 2nd Series  05-23-2005  07-08-2005     2.48,
                                           2.50,
                                           2.51
25, 2nd Series  06-13-2005  08-19-2005     Not Included
26, 2nd Series  06-27-2005  07-27-2005     4.50
28, 2nd Series  07-11-2005  08-19-2005     5.51
30, 2nd Series  11-14-2005  04-10-2006     Ch. 20
31, 2nd Series  01-23-2006  02-22-2006     9.02
33, 2nd Series  02-27-2006  03-29-2006     Ch. 20
34, 2nd Series  02-27-2006  03-29-2006     4.40
                                           2.40 -
38, 2nd Series  08-14-2006  09-13-2006     2.48,
                                           2.50,
                                           2.51
39, 2nd Series  11-27-2006  12-27-2006     5.51
43, 2nd Series  04-14-2008  05-14-2008     5.51,
                                           5.53
44, 2nd Series  05-27-2008  06-26-2008     Ch. 20
45, 2nd Series  09-22-2008  10-24-2008     2.61
47, 2nd Series  10-27-2008  11-26-2008     2.13
48, 2nd Series  12-08-2008  02-06-2009     4.40
                                           2.40 -
50, 2nd Series  05-13-2009  05-15-2009     2.48,
                                           2.50,
                                           2.51
51, 2nd Series  05-26-2009  06-25-2009     7.23
52, 2nd Series  01-25-2010  02-25-2010     2.52
53, 2nd Series  05-10-2010  06-10-2010     10.14
54, 2nd Series  05-10-2010  06-10-2010     2.76
55, 2nd Series  05-10-2010  06-10-2010     Ch. 20
56, 2nd Series  06-28-2010  07-28-2010     Not Included
57, 2nd Series  06-28-2010  07-28-2010     2.26
                                           5.02,
58, 2nd Series  09-27-2010  10-29-2010     5.12,
                                           5.19
59, 2nd Series  11-08-2010  12-08-2010     Ch. 20
61, 2nd Series  06-13-2011  07-14-2011     9.02,
                                           9.20
62, 2nd Series  07-25-2011  08-25-2011     6.21
63, 2nd Series  07-25-2011  08-25-2011     10.15,
                                           10.42
64, 2nd Series  09-12-2011  10-13-2011     4.60
65, 2nd Series  09-26-2011  10-26-2011     3.20
66, 2nd Series  11-14-2011  02-12-2012     Ch. 20
68, 2nd Series  12-19-2011  01-19-2012     Ch. 20
69, 2nd Series  12-19-2011  01-18-2012     4.40
70, 2nd Series  02-13-2012  03-14-2012     4.40
71, 2nd Series  02-13-2012  03-14-2012     4.40
72, 2nd Series  02-27-2012  03-27-2012     4.60
73, 2nd Series  03-12-2012  04-12-2012     2.13
74, 2nd Series  04-09-2012  05-09-2012     10.27
75, 2nd Series  05-29-2012  06-29-2012     10.10 -
                                           10.13
76, 2nd Series  05-29-2012  06-29-2012     5.73,
                                           5.74
78, 2nd Series  06-11-2012  07-11-2012     Ch. 20
79, 2nd Series  06-11-2012  07-11-2012     Ch. 20
80, 2nd Series  08-13-2012  09-14-2012     Ch. 20
81, 2nd Series  08-13-2012  09-14-2012     Ch. 20
82, 2nd Series  11-26-2012  12-25-2012     Ch. 20
84, 2nd Series  12-17-2012  01-19-2013     5.33
85, 2nd Series  02-25-2013  04-08-2013     2.44
87, 2nd Series  03-25-2013  04-25-2013     Ch. 20
89, 2nd Series  03-25-2013  04-25-2013     Not Included
90, 2nd Series  06-24-2013  07-24-2013     2.40,
                                           2.46
91, 2nd Series  08-26-2013  01-01-2014     3.01 -
                                           3.10
92, 2nd Series  10-14-2013  11-13-2013     Ch. 20
94, 2nd Series  01-13-2014  02-13-2014     2.77,
                                           2.78
95, 2nd Series  02-24-2014  04-05-2014     2.02
96, 2nd Series  03-10-2014  04-10-2014     9.03,
                                           9.21,
                                        Repeals 9.21
97, 2nd Series  03-24-2014  04-24-2014     Not Included
98, 2nd Series  06-23-2014  07-23-2014     4.60
99, 2nd Series  07-29-2014  08-28-2014     Ch. 20
100, 2nd Series 10-27-2014  11-27-2014     2.13
101, 2nd Series 11-24-2014  12-24-2014     2.26
102, 2nd Series 02-09-2015  03-11-2015     2.48
                                           5.01,
                                           5.20,
103, 2nd Series 05-26-2015  06-26-2015     5.51,
                                           5.73,
                                           5.74,
                                           5.82,
                                        Repeals 5.32, 5.54, 5.71
104, 2nd Series 09-28-2015  10-28-2015     Not Included
108, 2nd Series 02-27-2017  04-10-2017     2.02
109, 2nd Series 06-12-2017  07-12-2017     5.20
110, 2nd Series 06-20-2017  07-20-2017     6.41
111, 2nd Series 10-23-2017  11-24-2017     Ch. 20
112, 2nd Series 10-23-2017  11-24-2017     Ch. 20
113, 2nd Series 10-23-2017  11-24-2017     Ch. 20
114, 2nd Series 05-29-2018  06-29-2018     4.42
116, 2nd Series 07-09-2018  08-09-2018     Not Included
117, 2nd Series 11-26-2018  12-26-2018     Not Included
118, 2nd Series 08-26-2019  09-27-2019     6.51
119, 2nd Series 8-10-2021   8-31-2021      6.50, Repeals 6.50
120, 2nd Series 10-12-2020  11-11-2020     Not Included
121, 2nd Series 5-24-2021   7-16-2021      Ch. 20
122, 2nd Series 5-24-2021   6-23-2021      Not Included
                                           11.10 -
                                           11.13,
                                           11.20,
                                           11.30,
                                           11.31,
                                           11.40 -
                                           11.42,
                                           11.50 -
                                           11.54,
123, 2nd Series 5-24-2021   7-16-2021      11.60 -
                                           11.62,
                                           11.70 -
                                           11.77,
                                           11.80,
                                           11.99, Repeals 11.01, 11.02, 11.10,
                                           11.20 - 11.23, 11.30 - 11.32, 11.40,
                                           11.41, 11.43, 11.50, 11.51, 11.60 -
                                           11.63, 11.70 - 11.72, 11.80 - 11.85,
                                           11.99
124, 2nd Series 8-9-2021    9-8-2021       4.01
125, 2nd Series 2-14-2022   2-14-2022      Not Included
126, 2nd Series 5-23-2022   5-23-2022      4.42
                                         
 
 
