VIRGINIA, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 8-13-2024
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
CITY OF VIRGINIA, MINNESOTA
ADOPTS THE FOLLOWING
OCTOBER 23, 2018
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF VIRGINIA, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book, now therefore:
The City Council of Virginia, Minnesota ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Virginia. This Code of Ordinances also
adopts, by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
      See Appendix A
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
   Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the city’s official newspaper. The city clerk shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Law Library or its designated depository. The
official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the
office of the city clerk.
   Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of
the law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
   Section 6, This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city’s official newspaper.
Passed by the City Council of Virginia, Minnesota this 23rd day of October,
2018.
Larry Cuffe, Jr. /s/
Larry Cuffe, Jr.
Mayor
Attested:
Pamela LaBine /s/
Pamela LaBine
City Clerk
VIRGINIA, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHARTER
CHAPTERS
      1.   General Provisions and Definitions Applicable to the Entire City
Code Including Penalty for Violation
      2.   Administration and General Government
      3.   Municipal and Public Utilities - Rules and Regulations, Rates,
Charges and Collections
      4.   Construction Permits and Regulation
      5.   Alcoholic Beverages Licensing and Regulation
      6.   Other Business Regulation and Licensing
      7.   Streets and Sidewalks Generally
      8.   Traffic Regulations
      9.   Parking Regulations
      10.   Public Protection, Crimes and Offenses
      11.   Land Use Regulations (Zoning)
      12.   Subdivision Regulations (Platting)
      13.   Regulating Tree/Shrub Planting and Maintenance
      14.   Creation of Joint Powers Authority Between Virginia and Eveleth
      15.   Rotary Park
      16.   Emergency Management
      17.   Property Maintenance and Preservation Code
      18.   Reserved
      19.   Reserved
      20.   Miscellaneous Ordinances
   PARALLEL REFERENCES
      References to Minnesota Statutes
      References to Ordinances
   INDEX
CHARTER OF THE CITY OF VIRGINIA, MINNESOTA
Section
Chapter 1. Name, Form of Government, Boundaries, Powers, and General Provisions
   
1.01   Name
   
1.02   Form of Government
   
1.03   City Boundaries
   
1.04   Powers of the City
   
1.05   Charter a Public Act
   
1.06   Word Usage
Chapter 2. The City Council
   
2.01   Composition and Election
   
2.02   Powers and Duties
   
2.03   The Mayor
   
2.04   The Acting Mayor
   
2.05   Incompatible Offices
   
2.06   Vacancies
   
2.07   Salaries
   
2.08   Requirements of Two-Thirds Vote
Chapter 3. Boards and Commissions
   
3.01   Advisory Boards and Commissions, Generally
   
3.02   Administrative Commissions, Generally
   
3.03   Public Utilities Commission
   
3.04   Hospital Commission
   
3.05   Sale of Publicly Owned Health Care Facilities
Chapter 4. Council Procedure
   
4.01   Council Meetings
   
4.02   Rules of Procedure and Quorum
   
4.03   Ordinances, Resolutions, and Motions
   
4.04   Ordinance Adoption, Amendment and Repeal Procedure
   
4.05   Codification of Ordinances
   
4.06   Resolutions
Chapter 5. Nominations and Elections
   
5.01   Nominations for Office
   
5.02   Primary Election
   
5.03   General City Election
   
5.04   Special Elections
   
5.05   Election Notice
   
5.06   Withdrawal
   
5.07   Canvass of Elections
Chapter 6. Initiative, Referendum, and Recall
   
6.01   Powers Reserved by the People
   
6.02   Expenditures by Petitioners
   
6.03   Further Regulations
Initiative
   
6.04   Initiation of Measures
   
6.05   Form of Petition and of Signature Papers
   
6.06   Filing of Petitions and Action Thereon
   
6.07   Action of Council on Petition
   
6.08   Initiative Ballots
   
6.09   Initiation of Charter Amendments
Referendum
   
6.10   The Referendum
   
6.11   Referendum Petitions
   
6.12   Referendum Ballots
The Recall
   
6.13   The Recall
   
6.14   Recall Petitions
   
6.15   Filing of Petition
   
6.16   Recall Election
   
6.17   Procedure at Recall Election
   
6.18   Form of Recall Ballot
Chapter 7. Taxation and Finances
   
7.01   Council to Control Finances
   
7.02   Fiscal Year
   
7.03   System of Taxation
   
7.04   Submission of Budget
   
7.05   Council Action on Budget
   
7.06   Enforcement of the Budget
   
7.07   Alterations of Budget
   
7.08   Funds
   
7.09   City Indebtedness
   
7.10   Anticipation Certificates
   
7.11   Emergency Debt Certificates
   
7.12   Bank Loans
   
7.13   Emergency Ordinance
Chapter 8. Public Improvements and Special Assessments
   
8.01   Power to Make Improvements and Levy Assessments
   
8.02   Assessments for Services
   
8.03   Local Improvements Regulations
   
8.04   Public Work; How Performed
Chapter 9. Eminent Domain
   
9.01   Power to Acquire Property
Chapter 10. Franchises
   
10.01   Franchises Required
   
10.02   Term
   
10.03   Public Hearing
   
10.04   Power of Regulation Reserved
   
10.05   Renewals or Extensions
   
10.06   Limitations
Chapter 11. Public Ownership and Operation of Utilities
   
11.01   Acquisition and Operation of Utilities
   
11.02   Purchase in Bulk
   
11.03   Lease of Plant
   
11.04   Sale of Public Utility
Chapter 12. Miscellaneous and Transitory Provisions
   
12.01   Official Publications
   
12.02   Oath of Office
   
12.03   Official Interest in Contracts
   
12.04   Official Bonds
   
12.05   Sale of Real Property
   
12.06   Vacation of Streets
   
12.07   City to Succeed to Rights and Obligations of Former City
   
12.08   Effective Date of This Charter
   
12.09   Transition of Officers, Boards and Commissions
   
12.10   Statutes Not Affected by Charter
   
12.11   Existing Ordinances Continued
   
12.12   Pending Condemnations, Improvements and Assessments
   
12.13   Ordinances to Make Charter Effective
   
12.14   Terms of Present Mayor and Councillors
   
12.15   Purchases and Contracts
   
12.16   Certification of Documents
   
12.17   Disposal of Unclaimed Property
   
12.18   City Property Not Lost by Adverse Possession
CHAPTER 1. NAME, FORM OF GOVERNMENT, BOUNDARIES, POWERS,
AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SEC. 1.01. NAME.
   The City of Virginia, in the County of St. Louis and State of Minnesota
(herein “City”), shall continue to be a municipal corporation under that name.
SEC. 1.02. FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The form of government established by this Charter is the “Mayor-Council
Plan”.
SEC. 1.03. CITY BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the City are the same as they now are or hereafter may be
established.
SEC. 1.04. POWERS OF THE CITY.
   The City shall have all powers, which may now or hereafter be possible for a
municipal corporation in this State to exercise in harmony with the
Constitutions of this State and of the United States. It is intended to confer
upon the City every power, which it would have if it were specifically
mentioned. The Charter shall be construed liberally in favor of the City and
the specific mention of particular municipal powers in other sections of this
Charter does not limit the powers of the City to those so mentioned.
SEC. 1.05. CHARTER A PUBLIC ACT.
   This Charter shall be a public act and need not be pleaded or proved in any
case.
SEC. 1.06. WORD USAGE.
   For purposes of this Charter, words used in the present tense shall include
the future, words in the singular shall include the plural, the plural the
singular; the words in the masculine shall include the feminine, and the
feminine the masculine.
CHAPTER 2. THE CITY COUNCIL
SEC. 2.01. COMPOSITION AND ELECTION.
   The City Council (throughout this Charter “the Council”) shall be composed
of a Mayor and six Councillors (except for the City transition period to hold
elections on even numbered years).
   All members of the Council shall be elected for terms of four years by and
from the electors of the City-at-large. All members of the Council shall hold
office until a successor is elected and qualifies.
   Terms of the Councillors shall be overlapping with three Councillors elected
at each election. The Council shall be judges of election returns. During the
transition period from 2009 through 2012 the elections shall be as follows:
      In 2009, three Council members shall be elected to three-year terms and
four-year terms thereafter;
      In 2011, the Mayor and three Council members shall be elected to three-
year terms until 2014 and four-year terms thereafter.
(Amended 3-10-2009)
SEC. 2.02. POWERS AND DUTIES.
   It is the duty of the Council to act in the best interests of the entire
City and it shall have all powers to do so, except as limited by statute or the
provisions of the Charter.
   The Council may create, change or abolish such positions, departments,
divisions, and bureaus for the efficient administration of City affairs, as it
may deem necessary, and, from time to time, alter their powers and
organization. The Council shall provide for an audit of the City’s accounts at
least once a year by the State Department in charge of such work or by a
certified public accountant.
   The Council may at any time provide for an examination or audit of the
accounts of any officer or department of the City and it may cause to be made
any survey or research study of any subject of City concern. The Council shall
appoint or remove, for cause, personnel as may be required for the efficient
operation of the City. The Council shall fix and determine salaries to be paid
employees and employee benefits. The Council, as a body, in a meeting at which
a quorum is present, shall, by majority vote, exercise the exclusive
legislative authority of the City and determine the matters of policy.
SEC. 2.03. THE MAYOR.
   The Mayor shall be the presiding officer of the Council. The Mayor shall
have a vote as a member of the Council. He shall exercise all powers and
perform all duties conferred and imposed upon him by this Charter, the
ordinances of the City, and the laws of the State.
   He shall be recognized as the official head of the City for all ceremonial
purposes, by the courts for the purpose of serving civil process, and by the
Governor for the purpose of martial law.
SEC. 2.04. THE ACTING MAYOR.
   The Council shall choose from the Councillors an Acting Mayor, who shall
hold such office at the pleasure of the Council. The Acting Mayor shall serve
as presiding officer in the Mayor’s absence and as Mayor in case of the Mayor’s
temporary disability or absence from the City. The Acting Mayor, while serving
as presiding officer or performing other duties as Mayor, shall have a vote as
Mayor, but not an additional vote as a Councillor.
SEC. 2.05. INCOMPATIBLE OFFICES.
   No member of the Council may hold any paid City office or employment other
than that to which elected, and until two years after the expiration of the
terms to which elected as Mayor or Councillor.
SEC. 2.06. VACANCIES.
   A vacancy in the Council, whether it be in the office of Mayor or
Councillor, shall be deemed to exist if the incumbent dies, resigns, is
convicted of any infamous crime, or any offense involving violation of the
official oath, fails to take and file the oath of office at or before the date
of the second regular meeting of the Council held after January 1 next
following the election at which elected or the second regular Council meeting
held after the appointment is communicated to an appointee, or continuous
absence from the City in excess of three months.
   In such case, the Council, by resolution, shall declare vacancy to exist and
shall within thirty days of such declaration appoint an eligible person to fill
the vacated office until the next regularly scheduled Council election when the
office shall be filled for the un-expired term.
SEC. 2.07. SALARIES.
   The members of the Council shall serve with reasonable compensation. The
Council, by ordinance, may change the annual salary of its members, and such
ordinance shall take effect as provided by statute.
SEC. 2.08. REQUIREMENTS OF TWO-THIRDS VOTE.
   Every ordinance or resolution appropriating money, levying any tax or
assessment, creating any financial liability of the City, authorizing the
issuance of bonds of the City, awarding or approving any contract for payment
of money, ordering any condemnation of private property, ordering the making of
any public improvement, or ordering the vacating of any street, alley,
boulevard, or other public thoroughfare shall require a vote of at least two-
thirds of the members elect of the Council.
CHAPTER 3. BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
SEC. 3.01. ADVISORY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS, GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Section, the Council may, by ordinance
or resolution, establish and regulate any Board or Commission to advise the
Council with respect to any City function or activity, to investigate any
subject of interest to the City, or to perform quasi-judicial functions.
   Any Advisory Board or Commission may be abolished by action of the Council,
similar to that by which it was established.
   A Library Commission is authorized as a permitted advisory Commission
hereunder. No other Library Commission shall be allowed.
   All Commission members must be qualified electors and residents of the City
for at least one year.
(Amended 3-25-2003)
   All Commission vacancies shall be advertised in the official newspaper of
the City. The advertisement must appear a minimum of three times at no more
frequent intervals than once per week; a minimum of sixty days before a vacancy
occurs, when possible.
   All Commission applicants must fill out an application form developed for
same by the Council. A screening of applicants will be provided for by a
subcommittee of Councillors; appointed by the Mayor. Said committee shall
evaluate applicants for Commission appointments and submit the most qualified
person’s name to the whole Council for consideration. Commissioners shall be
nominated to serve by a majority vote of the Council from the names submitted
by the screening committee.
   Commissioners shall hold office for a term of three years and until their
respective successors are appointed. Should the office of any Commissioner
become vacant before the expiration of the term for which he/she is appointed,
the Mayor and the Council, as hereinbefore provided, shall appoint a person to
serve the balance of the un-expired term.
   Commissioners shall serve without pay; they shall be eligible for
reappointment, except no Commissioner shall serve more than three consecutive
three-year terms. No Commissioner shall hold any other office or employment
under the City during the term he/she served as Commissioner.
   Appointments of Commissioners shall be made in January of each year or such
other time as the Mayor and Council deem necessary, and their terms of office
shall begin on February 1 following or such other time as the Mayor and Council
may determine.
   A vacancy shall be deemed to exist in case of the failure of any person
elected or appointed thereto to qualify on or before the date his/her term
begins; or by reason of his/her death, resignation, removal from the City or a
continual absence from the City for more than three months; or by reason of
conviction of a felony whether before or after his/her appointment; or by
reason of failure of any such person without good cause to perform any of the
duties of his/her office. Commission members may be removed from office at any
time for cause by a majority vote of the Council.
   The annual meeting of the each Commission shall be held in February;
subsequent meetings shall be held at such times and places as each Commission
shall decide. Each Commission shall, at its first meeting in January, elect
from its membership a Chairperson and Secretary to serve for the ensuing year.
The Chairperson shall preside at all meetings and the Secretary shall keep
minutes. Said minutes shall be filed with the person or department so
designated by the Council within five days after said minutes have been
approved. Copies of minutes shall be kept on file in the office of the person
or department so designated by the Council. No other publication of said
minutes shall be required. Each Commission shall make monthly financial reports
and other reports as the Council may require.
SEC. 3.02. ADMINISTRATIVE COMMISSIONS, GENERALLY.
   One Administrative Commission is hereby established. A Public Utilities
Commission for the operation and management of such public utilities. The
Advisory Hospital Commission has been established under Section 2.38 of the
City of Virginia Code.
   The Public Utility Commission action shall be subject to override by the
Council by a two-thirds majority if the action involves financial matters and a
simple majority on all other matters within ten days after the minutes noting
said Commission action has been filed with the person or department so
designated by the Council. Notwithstanding anything set out in this Chapter,
the Public Utilities Commission may not issue or sell obligations for any
purpose, but this Commission may request the Council to do so pursuant to its
authority.
   The Public Utilities Commissions shall set bond to be given by such of its
employees as have departmental funds in their charge, and shall pay the
premiums on such bonds.
(Amended 7-9-2013)
SEC. 3.03. PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION.
   Subd. 1 Composition
   The Public Utilities Commission shall be composed of five members.
   Subd. 2 Powers and Duties
   The Public Utilities Commission shall manage the water, gas, steam heat,
electric and such other utilities as the Council may direct by ordinance for
the production and/or purchase as well as cost of utility services, and the
distribution of same to consumers as well as other acts deemed necessary or
desirable in the interest of providing for an efficient operation of said
utility.
   The Commission shall furnish such water drawn by the City through City
hydrants, and electric current used by the City for street lighting, free of
charge.
   The Commission shall establish the policies under which the utility shall
operate and will yield appropriate sums for depreciation and reserve accounts,
and for the retirement of any bond indebtedness incurred by the City for
capital expenditures of the Department.
   The Commission shall have the proceeds of such bonds of the City as may be
sold to provide funds for its capital expenditures. The Commission may make
transfers between funds, except funds established for the payment of bonds and
bond interest.
   The President and Secretary shall sign all contracts and orders for payment
of monies. In addition, the Commission shall appoint or remove, for cause,
personnel as may be required for the efficient operation of said utilities.
SEC. 3.04. HOSPITAL COMMISSION.
(Deleted 7-9-2013)
SEC. 3.05. SALE OF PUBLICLY OWNED HEALTH CARE FACILITIES.
   No publicly-owned health care facilities shall be sold or otherwise disposed
of by the City unless the full terms of the preposition of sale or other
disposition are embodied in an ordinance approved by a unanimous vote of the
City Council, which sale or disposition shall also be subject to the
requirements of State law. Provided, that this Section shall not apply to sale
of equipment, disposition of equipment, or exchange of equipment for the
purpose of modernization or updating obsolete or disposing of unused equipment.
Provided, further, that, for the purpose of this Section, relinquishing
management or control of hospital buildings or grounds is a sale. However,
business mergers, partnerships, affiliations, sharing of services, leases, or
other business relationships common in the management of health care facilities
are not considered a sale, but such action requires a two-thirds vote of the
City Council.
(Amended 11-9-2011; Amended 8-1-2017)
CHAPTER 4. COUNCIL PROCEDURE
SEC. 4.01. COUNCIL MEETINGS.
   All newly elected members of the Council shall take office at an
organizational meeting held on the first regular business day of January next
following the general City election at which they are elected. Thereafter the
Council shall meet at such time or times each month as may be prescribed by
ordinance or resolution; provided, that the Council shall hold at least one
regular meeting each month.
   The Mayor, or any three members of the Council, may call special meetings of
the Council upon such notice as is provided by ordinance or statute. Notice of
such meetings may be given to members of the Council by any means provided in
its rules, which must be consistent with any applicable statutory provision.
All meetings of the Council shall be public, except as otherwise provided by
statute, and any citizen shall have access to the minutes and records thereof
at all reasonable times.
SEC. 4.02. RULES OF PROCEDURE AND QUORUM.
   The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business. Four
Councillors shall constitute a quorum to do business, but a smaller number may
adjourn from time-to-time. The Council, may by rule, provide a means by which a
minority may compel the attendance of absent members.
SEC. 4.03. ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, AND MOTIONS.
   Except as in this Charter otherwise provided, all legislation shall be by
ordinance. The aye and no vote on ordinances, resolutions, and motions shall be
recorded unless the vote is unanimous. An affirmative vote of at least four
members of the Council shall be required for the adoption of all ordinances and
resolutions, except as otherwise provided in this Charter.
SEC. 4.04. ORDINANCE ADOPTION, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL PROCEDURE.
   Subd. 1 Form and Adoption
   The ordaining clause of all ordinances shall be in the words, “The City of
Virginia ordains”. Every ordinance, except an emergency ordinance, shall be
introduced in writing and at a regular meeting, and may be adopted at any
regular meeting occurring at least fourteen days after the meeting at winch it
was introduced. No ordinance shall contain more than one subject, which shall
be clearly expressed in its title.
   Subd. 2 Signing and Publication
   Every ordinance adopted by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor or by
two Councillors, attested, filed and preserved by the person designated by the
Council. Every ordinance shall be published once in the official newspaper.
However, as to lengthy ordinances, or ordinances which include charts or maps,
the Council may, by unanimous vote, determine that publication of the title and
a summary of an ordinance would clearly inform the public of the intent and
effect of such ordinance, and direct that only the title and summary be
published with a notice that a printed copy of the ordinance is available for
inspection during regular office hours at the office of the person or
department so designated by the Council and at the City Library. The text of
the summary shall be approved by the Council prior to publication. Such
publication shall be deemed to fulfill all legal requirements for publication
as completely as if the entire ordinance had been published. The text of the
summary shall be published in a body type no smaller than brevier or eight-
point type as defined in Minnesota Statutes. Proof of publication shall be
attached to and filed with the ordinance. To the extent and in the manner
provided by law, an ordinance may incorporate by reference a Statute of
Minnesota, a State administrative rule or a regulation, a code, or ordinance or
part thereof without publishing the material referred to in full.
   Subd. 3 Emergency
   An emergency ordinance is an ordinance necessary for the immediate
preservation of the public peace, health, morals, safety or welfare in which
the emergency is defined and declared in a preamble thereto. No prosecution
shall be based upon the provisions of any emergency ordinance until twenty-four
hours after the ordinance has been filed with the City Clerk and posted in
three conspicuous places or until the ordinance has been once published in the
official newspaper, unless the person charged with violation had actual notice
of the adoption of the ordinance prior to the act or omission of which
complaint is made.
   Subd. 4 When Effective.
   An emergency ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption or at
such later date as is fixed therein. Every other ordinance shall take effect
fifteen days after publication of the ordinance or publication of the summary,
as the case may be, or at such later date as is fixed therein. Every ordinance
adopted by the voters of the City shall take effect immediately upon its
adoption, or at such later time as is fixed therein.
   Subd. 5 Amendment or Repeal.
   Every ordinance repealing a previous ordinance or section or subdivision of
a codification shall give the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or
section or subdivision to be repealed in whole or in part. No ordinance or
section or subdivision shall be amended by reference to the title alone, but
such an amending ordinance shall set forth in full each section, subdivision,
or subparagraph as amended.
   Subd. 6 Copies of Ordinances.
   Public readings of entire ordinances at City Council meetings shall not be
required or even permitted. Provided, however, that any resident of the City
may, at any time between introduction and final adoption of an ordinance,
except an emergency ordinance, request a copy from the person or department so
designated by the Council. All such requests shall be honored except that as to
lengthy ordinances or ordinances which include charts or maps referred to in
Subdivision 2 of this Section, a complete copy shall not be furnished, but the
summary, when prepared, shall be furnished to the person requesting the same.
SEC. 4.05. CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The City may revise, rearrange, and codify its ordinances with such
additions and deletions as may be deemed necessary by the Council. Such
ordinance code shall be published in book, pamphlet, or continuously revised
loose-leaf form and copies shall be-made available by the Council at the office
of the person designated by the Council for general distribution to the public
free or at a reasonable charge. Distribution in such published form shall be a
sufficient notice of any ordinance provision not previously published.
SEC. 4.06. RESOLUTIONS.
   Every resolution shall be presented in writing unless such form is waived by
the unanimous consent of the Council. All resolutions take effect immediately
upon adoption or at such later date as is fixed therein.
CHAPTER 5. NOMINATIONS AND ELECTIONS
SEC. 5.01. NOMINATIONS FOR OFFICE.
   At any time not more than forty-five days, nor less than twenty-one days,
prior to the date for a primary election, any eligible person may become a
candidate for any elective office under the provisions of this Charter, either
by filing an affidavit with the person designated by the Council, or by having
an application in his or her behalf signed by at least five qualified voters
and containing the endorsed acceptance of the proposed candidate. Such
affidavit or application shall be on a form furnished by the City and stating
the full name and address of the candidate and office for which he or she is
candidate. A filing fee of $10.00 shall accompany the document.
SEC. 5.02. PRIMARY ELECTION.
   If the number of candidates who have filed for an elective office is more
than twice the number of vacancies to be filled, there shall be a primary
election to eliminate the excess numbers of candidates. Pursuant to State law,
such primary election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the second
Monday in September.
SEC. 5.03. GENERAL CITY ELECTION.
   A general City election shall be held on the first Tuesday after the first
Monday in November of each even-numbered year subject to a transition election
as outlined in Section
2.01. The candidate(s) receiving a plurality of the votes over the other
candidate(s) shall be elected.
(Amended 3-10-2009)
SEC. 5.04. SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   The Council may, by resolution, order a special election and provide all
means for holding it. The procedure at such election shall conform as nearly as
possible to that prescribed for other City elections.
SEC. 5.05. ELECTION NOTICE.
   The person designated by the Council shall give at least two weeks previous
notice of the time and place of holding all elections and of the officers to be
elected and proposals to be submitted, if any, by posting in at least one
public place in each voting precinct and by publication at least once in the
official newspaper. Failure to give such notice shall not invalidate such
election.
SEC. 5.06. WITHDRAWAL.
   Any candidate may withdraw not later than twelve o’clock noon of the day
following the last day for filing, by filing a written notice of withdrawal,
signed and sworn to by the candidate, with the person designated by the
Council.
SEC. 5.07. CANVASS OF ELECTIONS.
   The Council shall meet and canvass the election returns within five days
after any election, and shall make full declaration of the results as soon as
possible, and file a statement thereof with the person designated by the
Council. This statement shall include: (a) the total number of good ballots
cast; (b) the total number of spoiled or defective ballots; (c) the vote for
each candidate, with an indication of those who were elected, or the result of
any issue decided; (d) a true copy of the ballots used; (e) the names of the
judges and clerks of election; and (f) such other information as may seem
pertinent. The person designated by the Council shall forthwith notify all
persons elected of their elections.
CHAPTER 6. INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
SEC. 6.01. POWERS RESERVED BY THE PEOPLE.
   The people of the City reserve to themselves the power, in accordance with
the provisions of this Charter, to initiate and adopt any ordinance, except an
ordinance appropriating money or authorizing the levy of taxes, to require such
an ordinance when adopted by the Council to be referred to the registered
voters for approval or disapproval, and to recall elected public officials.
These powers shall be called the initiative, the referendum, and the recall,
respectively.
SEC. 6.02. EXPENDITURES BY PETITIONERS.
   No member of any initiative, referendum, or recall committee, no circulator
of a signature paper, and no signer of any such paper, or any other person,
shall accept or offer any reward, pecuniary or otherwise, for services rendered
in connection with the circulation thereof, but this shall not prevent the
committee from paying for legal advice and incurring an expense not to exceed
such sums as may be provided by ordinance for stationary, copying, printing and
notary’s fees. Any violation of this Section is a misdemeanor.
SEC. 6.03. FURTHER REGULATIONS.
   The Council may provide by ordinance such further regulations for the
initiative, referendum, and recall, not inconsistent with this Charter, as it
deems necessary.
INITIATIVE
SEC. 6.04. INITIATION OF MEASURES.
   Any five registered voters may form themselves into a committee for the
initiation of any ordinance except as provided in Section 6.01. Before
circulating any petition, they shall file a certified copy of their proposed
ordinance with the person designated by the Council together with their names
and addresses as members of such committee. They shall also attach a verified
copy of the proposed ordinance to each of the signature papers herein
described, together with their names and addresses as sponsors therefor.
SEC. 6.05. FORM OF PETITION AND OF SIGNATURE PAPERS.
   The petition for the adoption of any ordinances shall consist of the
ordinance, together with all signature papers and affidavits thereto attached.
Such petition shall not be complete unless signed by a number of voters at
least equal to fifteen percent of the number of voters casting ballots in the
last regular municipal election. All the signatures need not be on one
signature paper, but the circulator of every such paper shall make an affidavit
that each signature appended to the paper is the genuine signature of the
person whose name it purports to be. Each signature paper shall be in
substantially the following form:
INITIATIVE PETITION
         Proposing an ordinance to
                                               (stating the purpose of the
ordinance), a copy of which ordinance is hereto attached. This ordinance is
sponsored by the following committee of registered voters:
         Name:                  Address:
         1.
                                                                                                                                                      
         2.
                                                                                                                                                      
         3.
                                                                                                                                                      
         The undersigned registered voters understanding the terms and the
nature of the ordinance hereto attached, petition the Commission for its
adoption, or, in lieu thereof, for its submission to the registered voters for
their approval.
         1.
                                                                                                                                                      
         2.
                                                                                                                                                      
         3.
                                                                                                                                                      
         At the end of the list of signatures shall be appended the affidavit
of the circulator mentioned above.
SEC. 6.06. FILING OF PETITIONS AND ACTION THEREON.
   All the signature papers shall be filed in the office of the person
designated by the Council as one instalment. Within five days after the filing
of the petition, the person designated by the Council shall ascertain by
examination the number of registered voters whose signatures are appended
thereto and whether this number is at least equal to fifteen percent of the
number of voters casting ballots in the last regular municipal election.
   If he finds the petition insufficient or irregular, he shall at once notify
one or more of the committee of sponsors of that fact, certifying the reasons
for his finding. The committee shall then be given thirty days in which to file
additional signature papers and to correct the petition in all other
particulars. If at the end of that period, the petition is found to be still
insufficient or irregular, the Clerk shall file it in his office and shall
notify each member of the committee of that fact.
   The final finding of the insufficiency or irregularity of a petition shall
not prejudice the filing of a new petition for the same purpose, nor shall it
prevent the Council from referring the ordinance to the registered voters at
the next regular or any special election at its option.
SEC. 6.07. ACTION OF COUNCIL ON PETITION.
   When the petition is found to be sufficient, the person designated by the
Council shall so certify to the Council at its next meeting, stating the number
of petitioners and the percentage of the total number of voters which they
constitute, and the Council shall at once read the ordinance and refer it to an
appropriate committee, which may be a committee of the whole.
   The Council shall thereupon provide for public hearings upon the ordinance,
after the holding of which the ordinance shall be finally acted upon by the
Council not later than sixty-five days after the date upon which it was
submitted to the Council by the person designated by the Council.
   If the Council fails to adopt the proposed ordinance, or it is adopted in a
form different from that set forth in the petition and unsatisfactory to the
petitioners, the proposed ordinance shall be submitted by the Council to the
vote of the registered voters at the next election; but if the number of
signers of the petition is at least equal to fifteen percent of the number of
voters casting ballots at the last regular City election, the Council shall
call a special election upon the measure. Such special election shall be held
not less than thirty nor more than forty-five days from the date of final
action on the ordinance by the Council or after the expiration of sixty-five
days from the date of submission to the Council when there has been no final
action; but if a regular election is to occur within three months, the Council
may submit the ordinance at that election. If the Council passes the proposed
ordinance with amendments and at least four-fifths of the committee of
petitioners does not express their dissatisfaction with such amended form by a
statement filed with the person designated by the Council within ten days of
the adoption thereof by the Council, the ordinance need not be submitted to the
registered voters.
SEC. 6.08. INITIATIVE BALLOTS.
   The ballots used when voting upon any such proposed ordinance shall state
the substance of the ordinance and shall give the voters the opportunity to
vote either “yes” or “no” on the question of adoption.
   If a majority of the registered voters voting on any such ordinance vote in
favor of it, it shall thereupon become an ordinance of the City. Any number of
proposed ordinances may be voted upon at the same election but the voter shall
be allowed to vote for or against each separately. In case of inconsistency
between two initiated ordinances approved at one election, the one approved by
the higher percentage of registered voters voting on the question shall prevail
to the extent of the inconsistency.
SEC. 6.09. INITIATION OF CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   Nothing in this Charter shall be construed as in any way affecting the right
of the registered voters under the Constitution and statutes of Minnesota to
propose amendments to this Charter.
REFERENDUM
SEC. 6.10. THE REFERENDUM.
   If, prior to the date when an ordinance takes effect, a petition is signed
by a number at least equal to fifteen percent of the number of voters casting
ballots in the last regular municipal election, and is filed with the person
designated by the Council requesting that any such ordinance be repealed or be
submitted to a vote of the registered voters, the ordinance shall thereby be
prevented from taking effect.
   The Council shall thereupon reconsider the ordinance at its next regular
meeting, and either repeal it or by aye and no vote re-affirm its adherence to
the ordinance as passed.
   In the latter case, the Council shall immediately order a special election
to be held thereon, or submit the ordinance at the next election, pending which
the ordinance shall remain suspended. If a majority of the registered voters
voting thereon is opposed to the ordinance, it shall not become effective; but
if a majority of the registered voters voting thereon favors the ordinance, it
shall go into effect immediately or on the date therein specified.
SEC. 6.11. REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   The requirements laid down in Sections 6.04 and 6.05 above as to the
formation of committees for the initiation of ordinances and as to the
formation of petitions and signature papers shall apply to the referendum as
far as possible, but with such verbal changes as may be necessary. A referendum
petition shall read as follows:
REFERENDUM PETITION
         Proposing the repeal of an ordinance to
                                            (stating the purpose of the
ordinance), a copy of which ordinance is hereto attached. The proposed repeal
is sponsored by the following committee of registered voters:
         Name:                  Address:
         1.
                                                                                                                         
         2.
                                                                                                                                                      
         3.
                                                                                                                                                      
         The undersigned petitioners understanding the nature of the ordinance
hereto attached and believing it to be detrimental to the welfare of the City,
petition the Council for its submission to a vote of the registered voters for
their approval or disapproval.
         Name:                  Address:
         1.
                                                                                                                                                
         2.
                                                                                                                                                      
         3.
                                                                                                                                                      
SEC. 6.12. REFERENDUM BALLOTS.
   The ballots used in any referendum election shall conform to the rules laid
down in Section 6.08 of this Charter for initiative ballots.
THE RECALL
SEC. 6.13. THE RECALL.
   Any five registered voters may form themselves into a committee for the
purpose of bringing about the recall of any elected officer of the City. The
committee shall certify to the City the name of the officer whose removal is
sought, a statement of the grounds for removal in not more than two hundred
fifty words, and their intention to bring about his recall. A copy of this
certificate shall be attached to each signature paper and no signature paper
shall be put into circulation previous to such certification.
SEC. 6.14. RECALL PETITIONS.
   The petition for the recall of any official shall consist of a certificate
identical with that filed with the person designated by the Council together
with all the signature papers and affidavits thereto attached.
   All the signatures need not be on one signature paper, but the circulator of
every paper shall make an affidavit that each signature appended to the paper
is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports to be. Each
signature paper shall be in substantially the following form:
RECALL PETITION
      Proposing the recall of                                        from his
office as                                                        which recall
is sought for the reasons set forth in the attached certificate. This movement
is sponsored by the following committee of registered voters:
      Name:                     Address:
      1.
                                                                                                                                    
      2.
                                                                                                                                    
      3.
                                                                                                                                    
      4.
                                                                                                                                    
      5.
                                                                                                                                    
      The undersigned registered voters understanding the nature of the charges
against the officer herein sought to be recalled, desire the holding of a
recall election for that purpose.
      Name:                     Address:
      1.
                                                                                                                                    
      2.
                                                                                                                                    
      3.
                                                                                                                                    
      4.
                                                                                                                                    
      5.
                                                                                                                                    
   At the end of the list of signatures shall be appended the affidavit of the
circulator.
SEC. 6.15. FILING OF PETITION.
   Within thirty days after the filing of the original certificate, the
committee shall file the completed petition in the office of the person
designated by the Council. The person designated by the Council shall examine
the petition within the next following five days, and if he finds it irregular
in any way or finds that the number of signers is less than twenty-five percent
of the number of voters casting ballots in the last regular City election, he
shall so notify one or more members of the committee. The committee shall then
be given ten days in which to file additional signature papers and to correct
the petition in all other respects, but they may not change the statement of
the grounds upon which the recall is sought.
   If at the end of that time the person designated by the Council finds the
petition still insufficient or irregular, he shall notify all the members of
the committee to that effect and shall file the petition in his office. No
further action shall be taken thereon.
SEC. 6.16. RECALL ELECTION.
   If a petition or amended petition is found sufficient, the person designated
by the Council shall transmit to the Council without delay, and shall also
officially notify the person sought to be recalled of the sufficiency of the
petition and of the pending action. The Council shall at its next meeting, by
resolution, provide for the holding of a special election not less than forty-
five nor more than sixty days after such meeting, but if any other election is
to occur within sixty days after such meeting, the Council may in its
discretion provide for the holding of the recall election at that time.
SEC. 6.17. PROCEDURE AT RECALL ELECTION.
   The person designated by the Council shall include with the published or
posted notice of the election the statement of the grounds for the recall and
also, in not more than five hundred words, the answer of the officer concerned
in justification of his course in office.
   Candidates to succeed the officer to be recalled shall be nominated in the
usual way, and the election shall be conducted as far as possible, in
accordance with the usual procedure in municipal elections.
SEC. 6.18. FORM OF RECALL BALLOT.
   Unless the officer whose removal is sought resigns within ten days after the
receipt by the Council of the completed recall petition, the form of the ballot
at such elections shall be as near as may be: “Shall
                                 be recalled?” the name of the officer who is
to be recalled in the blank, and the registered voters shall be permitted to
vote separately “yes” or “no” upon this question.
   The ballot shall also contain the names of the candidates to be voted upon
to fill the vacancy, in case the recall is successful, under the caption:
“Candidates to fill the place of                                  , if
recalled”; but the officer whose recall is sought shall not himself be a
candidate upon such ballot. If a majority of those voting on the question of
recall vote in favor of recall, the official shall be thereby removed from
office, and the candidate who receives the highest number of votes for his
place shall be elected thereto for the remainder of the un-expired term.
   If the officer sought to be recalled resigns within ten days after receipt
by the Council of the completed recall petition, the form of ballot at the
election shall be the same, as nearly as possible, as the form in use at a
regular election.
CHAPTER 7. TAXATION AND FINANCES
SEC. 7.01. COUNCIL TO CONTROL FINANCES.
   The Council shall have full authority over the financial affairs of the
City. It shall provide for the collection of all revenues and other assets, the
auditing and settlement of accounts, and the safekeeping and disbursement of
public moneys.
SEC. 7.02. FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the City shall be the calendar year.
SEC. 7.03. SYSTEM OF TAXATION.
   Subject to the State Constitution, and except as forbidden by it or by State
law, the Council shall have full power to provide by ordinance for a system of
local taxation.
   This authority includes the power by ordinance to assess, levy and collect
taxes on all subjects or objects of taxation except as limited or prohibited by
the State Constitution, by this Charter or by laws imposing restrictions upon
the City irrespective of Charter provisions; provided, however, the Council is
hereby authorized to levy taxes for all general fund purposes without statutory
limitation.
SEC. 7.04. SUBMISSION OF BUDGET.
   The Council shall appoint an administrative officer who shall submit to the
Council a recommended budget as directed by a budget calendar to be established
by the Council, or in the absence thereof, by September 1 of each year. The
budget shall provide a complete financial plan for all City funds and
activities for the ensuing financial year and, except as required by law or
this Charter, shall contain such information and be in such form as the
administrative officer preparing the recommended budget deems desirable or the
Council may require.
   It shall include a summary and show in detail all estimated income and all
proposed expenditures, including debt service and comparative figures for the
current fiscal year, actual and estimated and the preceding financial year.
   In addition to showing proposed expenditures for current operations, it
shall show proposed capital expenditures to be made during ensuing years and
the proposed method of financing each such capital expenditure.
SEC. 7.05. COUNCIL ACTION ON BUDGET.
   The budget shall be considered and adopted by the Council in the form and
within the time period established by Minnesota Statute.
   All meetings to consider the budget shall be so conducted as to give
interested citizens a reasonable opportunity to be heard. The Council may
revise the proposed budget but no amendment to the budget shall increase the
authorized expenditures to an amount greater than the estimated fund balances.
   The Council shall adopt the budget by a resolution which shall set forth the
total for each budgeted fund and each department with such segregation as to
subjects and purposes of expenditures as the Council deems necessary for
purposes of budget control. The Council shall also adopt a resolution levying
the amount of taxes provided in the budget in accordance with Minnesota
Statute.
   Adoption of the budget resolution shall constitute appropriations at the
beginning of the fiscal year of the sums fixed in the resolution for the
several purposes named. The sums constituting an individual appropriation shall
be the aggregate of all minor line item amounts contained in the detailed
budget for the major categories of expenditures determined by general function
or department within each fund.
   The budget resolution shall reflect only the appropriation for each major
budget category, function or department for the ensuing year. The Council
shall, when adopting each budget, determine such major categories, functions or
departments in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices.
SEC. 7.06. ENFORCEMENT OF THE BUDGET.
   The City Council shall enforce strictly the provision of the budget. The
Council shall not authorize any payment of the incurring of any obligation by
the City unless an appropriation has been made for the same and there is a
sufficient unexpended balance left after deducting the total past expenditures
and encumbrances against the appropriation. No officer or employee of the City
shall place any order or make any purchase for a purpose not authorized in the
budget resolution or authorized in advance except by an ordinance drafted to
specifically define and empower emergency response activities.
   Any obligation incurred by any person in the employ of the City for any
purpose not authorized in the budget resolution or for any amount exceeding an
appropriation shall be a personal obligation upon the person incurring the
obligation.
   No check shall be issued or transfer made to any account other than one
owned by the City until the claim to which it relates has been supported by an
itemized bill, payroll, or time-sheet or other document approved and signed by
the responsible City officer who vouches for its correctness and
reasonableness.
SEC. 7.07. ALTERATIONS OF BUDGET.
   After the budget resolution has been adopted, the Council shall not increase
the appropriations beyond the estimated revenue sources except to the extent
that such sources exceed the existing fund balance. At any time the Council
may, by resolution approved by a majority of its members, reduce the sums
appropriated for any purpose by the budget resolution, or authorize the
transfer of sums from unencumbered balances of appropriations in the budget
resolution to other purposes.
SEC. 7.08. FUNDS.
   There shall be maintained in the City Treasury a general fund and such other
funds as may be required by statute, ordinance or resolution. The Council may,
by ordinance or resolution, make inter-fund loans, except from trust and agency
funds, as it may deem necessary and appropriate.
SEC. 7.09. CITY INDEBTEDNESS.
   Except as provided in this Chapter, obligations of the City may not be
issued to pay current expenses. The Council may issue and sell general
obligations pledging the full faith, credit and taxing powers of the City for
any authorized corporate purpose except current expenses.
   The Council may issue and sell revenue obligations for any public
convenience from which a revenue is or may be derived. All obligations of the
City, including obligations to finance facilities under the jurisdiction of the
Public Utilities Commission, the Hospital Commission, or any other
administrative commission are to be issued and sold by the City Council at the
request of the respective administrative commission.
SEC. 7.10. ANTICIPATION CERTIFICATES.
   At any time after January 1, the Council may issue certificates of
indebtedness in anticipation of State and Federal aids and the collection of
taxes levied the previous year for any fund and not yet collected.
   The total amount of certificates issued against any fund for any year
together with interest thereon until maturity shall not exceed the total of
State and Federal aids and current taxes due to the fund and uncollected at the
time of issuance.
   Such certificates shall be issued on such terms and conditions as the
Council may determine, but they shall become due not later than April 1 of the
year following their issuance. The proceeds of the tax levied and such State or
Federal aids as the governing body may have allocated for the fund against
which tax anticipation certificates are issued and the full faith and credit of
the City shall be irrevocably pledged for the redemption of the certificates.
SEC. 7.11. EMERGENCY DEBT CERTIFICATES.
   If in any year the receipts from taxes or other sources should from some
unforeseen cause become insufficient for the ordinary expenses of the City, or
if any calamity or other public emergency necessitates the making of
extraordinary expenditures, the Council may, by ordinance, issue on such terms
and in such manner as the Council determines, emergency debt certificates to
run not to exceed three years.
   A tax sufficient to pay principal and interest on such certificates with the
margin required by law shall be levied as required by law.
   The ordinance authorizing an issue of such emergency debt certificates shall
state the nature of the emergency and be approved by a unanimous vote of the
Council. It may be passed as an emergency ordinance.
SEC. 7.12. BANK LOANS.
   Whenever the Council, by resolution, deems it necessary and advantageous, it
may borrow money from any bank for the purpose of financing any authorized
capital improvement or other purpose as allowed by this Charter or by law.
   Such loans shall be payable within a maximum period of seven years and shall
be issued on such terms and in such manner as the Council may determine.
   If the amount of the obligations to be issued to finance any such purchase
exceeds one percent of the assessed valuation of the City, excluding money and
credits, they shall not be issued for at least thirty days after publication in
the official newspaper of a Council resolution determining to issue them; and
if, before the end of that time, the petition asking for an election on the
proposition, signed by at least a number equal to fifteen percent of the number
of voters casting ballots in the last regular City election, is filed with the
person designated by the Council, such obligations shall not be issued until
the proposition for their issuance has been approved by a majority of the votes
cast on the question at a regular or special election.
   A tax levy shall be made for the payment of the principal and interest on
such obligations as in the case of bonds as prescribed by law.
   In lieu of borrowing money by bank loans as authorized by this Section, the
Council may issue any other form of legal City obligation as allowed by law or
by this Charter.
SEC. 7.13. EMERGENCY ORDINANCE.
   The Council may authorize, in advance, the purchase of services or the
creation of City obligations not included in the budget by an ordinance drafted
to strictly define and empower emergency response activities to address natural
disasters.
   Within sixty days following the purchase of such services or the creation of
such City obligation, the Council shall issue Emergency Debt Certificates or
otherwise provide for compliance with the provisions of this Chapter.
CHAPTER 8. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SEC. 8.01. POWER TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS AND LEVY ASSESSMENTS.
   The City shall have the power to make any and every type of public
improvement not forbidden by the laws of this State and to levy special
assessments to pay all or any part of the cost of such improvements as are of a
local character.
   The amounts assessed to benefitted property to pay for such local
improvements may equal the cost of the improvement, including all costs and
expenses connected therewith, with interest, until paid, but shall in no case
exceed the benefits to the property.
SEC. 8.02. ASSESSMENTS FOR SERVICES.
   The Council may provide by ordinance that the cost of sprinkling, snow or
rubbish removal, or of any other service to streets, sidewalks, or other public
property, or the costs of any services to other property undertaken by the City
may be assessed against the property benefitted and collected in like manner as
are special assessments.
SEC. 8.03. LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS REGULATIONS.
   After this Charter takes effect, local improvements commenced prior thereto
shall be completed and assessments may be levied and securities issued for the
financing thereof as prescribed by the law (or Charter provisions) applicable
thereto. The Council may prepare and adopt a comprehensive ordinance
prescribing the procedure, which shall be followed thereafter in making all
local improvements and levying assessments therefore. The Council may elect to
use State law or the local improvement ordinance for the purpose of providing
local improvements and assessments thereof.
SEC. 8.04. PUBLIC WORK; HOW PERFORMED.
   Public Works, including all local improvements, may be constructed,
extended, repaired, and maintained either directly by day labor or by contract.
   The City shall require contractors to give bonds for the protection of the
City and all persons furnishing labor and materials pursuant to the laws of the
State.
CHAPTER 9. EMINENT DOMAIN
SEC. 9.01. POWER TO ACQUIRE PROPERTY.
   The City may acquire, by purchase, gift, devise, or condemnation, any
property, corporeal or incorporeal, either within or without its corporate
boundaries, which may be needed by the City for any public use or purpose.
   Easements for slopes, fills, sewers, building lines, poles, wires, pipes,
and conduits for water, gas, heat, and power or for any other public use, may
be acquired by gift, devise, purchase, or condemnation in the manner provided
by the law.
   All such property acquisitions, including condemnation shall be made under
provisions of State law or other applicable law or regulation.
CHAPTER 10. FRANCHISES
SEC. 10.01. FRANCHISES REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, no person, firm or corporation shall
place or maintain any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures in, over, upon, or
under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a public utility
or for any other purpose, without a franchise therefor from the City.
   A franchise shall be granted only by ordinance, which shall not be an
emergency ordinance. Every ordinance granting a franchise shall contain all the
terms and conditions of the franchise.
SEC. 10.02. TERM.
   No exclusive or perpetual franchise shall ever be granted. No franchise for
a term exceeding fifteen years shall be effective until approved by a majority
of the registered voters thereon.
SEC. 10.03. PUBLIC HEARING.
   Prior to formal negotiations for a proposed franchise, a public hearing for
citizen review and comment shall be held. Before any franchise ordinance is
adopted, or any rates, fares, or prices to be charged by a public utility are
fixed by the Council, the Council shall hold a public hearing on the matter.
Notice of such hearings shall be published at least once in the official
newspaper not less than ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
SEC. 10.04. POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED.
   Subject to any applicable law, the Council may by ordinance reasonably
regulate and control the exercise of any franchise. No franchise value shall be
included in the evaluation of the grantee’s property in regulating utility
rates, fares, or prices under any applicable law, ordinance or regulation.
SEC. 10.05. RENEWALS OR EXTENSIONS.
   Every renewal or modification of a franchise, including an existing
franchise, shall be subject to the same limitations and shall be granted in the
same manner as a new franchise.
SEC. 10.06. LIMITATIONS.
   The enumeration in this Charter of particular matters shall not be construed
as limiting the right of the City to insert in such franchise such other and
further conditions and restrictions as the Council may deem necessary or proper
to protect the City’s interests; nor shall anything contained in the Charter
limit the right or power possessed by the City over existing franchises.
CHAPTER 11. PUBLIC OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES
SEC. 11.01. ACQUISITION AND OPERATION OF UTILITIES.
   The City may own and operate any gas, water, heat, power, light, telephone
or other public utility for supplying its own needs for utility service or for
supplying utility service to private consumers or both.
   Subject to applicable law, it may construct all facilities reasonably needed
for that purpose and may acquire any existing utility properties so needed; but
no proceedings to acquire any such public utility shall be consummated unless
the City has the money in the treasury to pay for acquisition or has made
provision for paying for the property proposed to be acquired.
SEC. 11.02. PURCHASE IN BULK.
   The City may, in lieu of providing for the local production of gas,
electricity, water, or other utilities, purchase the same in bulk and resell
them to local consumers at such rates as it may fix.
SEC. 11.03. LEASE OF PLANT.
   The City may, if the public interests will be served thereby, contract with
any responsible person, co-partnership or corporation for the operation of any
utility owned by the City, upon such rentals and conditions as it may deem
necessary; but such contract shall be embodied in and let only by an ordinance
approved by two-thirds vote of the Council and subject to popular referendum.
Such ordinance shall not be an emergency ordinance. In no case shall such
contract be for a longer term than ten years.
SEC. 11.04. SALE OF PUBLIC UTILITY.
   No public utility owned by the City shall be sold or otherwise disposed of
by the City unless the full terms of the proposition of sale or other
disposition are embodied in an ordinance approved by a majority of the voters
voting thereon at a general or special election.
   In addition, any sale, lease or abandonment of a public utility shall be
subject to the requirements of the State law.
CHAPTER 12. MISCELLANEOUS AND TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
SEC. 12.01. OFFICIAL PUBLICATIONS.
   The Council shall annually designate a legal newspaper of general
circulation in the City as its official newspaper in which shall be published
ordinances and other matters required by law to be so published as well as such
other matters as the Council may deem it in the public interest to have
published in this manner.
SEC. 12.02. OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the City shall, before entering upon the duties of the
office, take and subscribe an oath of office in substantially the following
form:
      “I do solemnly swear (or affirm) to support the constitution of the
United States and of this State and to discharge faithfully the duties
devolving upon me as (Mayor, Councillor, etc.) of the City of Virginia to the
best of my judgment and ability.”
SEC. 12.03. OFFICIAL INTEREST IN CONTRACTS.
   Except as otherwise permitted by law, no officer of the City who is
authorized to take part in any manner in any contract with the City shall
voluntarily have a personal financial interest in or personally benefit
financially from such contract.
SEC. 12.04. OFFICIAL BONDS.
   All officers or employees of the City as may be provided for by ordinance,
shall each before entering upon the duties of his respective office or
employment, give a corporate surety bond to the City in such form and in such
amount as may be fixed by the Council as security for the faithful performance
of his official duties and the safekeeping of the public funds.
   Such bonds may either be individual or blanket bonds in the discretion of
the Council. They shall be approved by the Council, and approved as to form by
the legal counsel, and filed with the person designated by the Council.
   The provisions of the laws of the State relating to official bonds not
inconsistent with this Charter shall be complied with. The premium on such
bonds shall be paid by the City.
SEC. 12.05. SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   No real property of the City shall be disposed of except by resolution. A
resolution authorizing sale of real property of the City shall not be adopted
at the meeting at which it’s introduced. At least ten days shall elapse between
the introduction and final adoption of such a resolution.
   The proceeds of any sale of such property shall be used as far as possible
to retire any outstanding indebtedness incurred by the City in the purchase,
construction, or improvement of this or other property used for the same public
purpose. If there is no such outstanding indebtedness, the Council may by
resolution designate some other public use for the proceeds.
SEC. 12.06. VACATION OF STREETS.
   The Council may, by ordinance approved by four-fifths vote, vacate any
street, alley, public grounds, public way or any part thereof within the City.
   Such vacation may be made only after published notice and an opportunity has
been given to affected property owners and the public to be heard, and upon
such further terms and by such procedure as the Council, by ordinance, may
prescribe.
   In a proceeding under this Section, an easement may be reserved for any
purpose, which the Council deems appropriate.
SEC. 12.07. CITY TO SUCCEED TO RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF FORMER CITY.
   The City shall succeed to all the property, rights, and privileges and shall
be subject to all the legal obligations of the City under the former charter.
SEC. 12.08. EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHARTER.
   This Charter shall take effect on the date or at the time stated in the
amending ordinance or, if an election is held authorizing its adoption, then it
shall take effect on the first day of January 1994.
SEC. 12.09. TRANSITION OF OFFICERS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS.
   The transition of operation of the affairs of the City from its last
previous Charter to this Charter shall be as follows:
   A.   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
   The terms of Administrative Officers appointed by the Council and presently
serving shall continue to serve until succession is provided for. The Council
shall provide for the succession in these offices in accordance with Chapter 2,
and not later than June 30, 1994.
   B.   BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   The terms of members of the Public Utilities Commission and the Hospital
Commission shall continue for the remainder of their terms established by the
Council under the previous Charter.
   The terms of members of all other Board and Commissions established under
the previous Charter shall end on January 1, 1994. The Mayor and Council shall
make appointments to such advisory boards and commissions as may be created by
ordinance giving due consideration to the appointment of persons who have
served in positions terminated under this Section.
SEC. 12.10. STATUTES NOT AFFECTED BY CHARTER.
   All general laws and statutes of the State applicable to all cities of the
same class as the City operating under home rule charters and not inconsistent
with the provisions of this Charter, shall apply to the City, and shall be
construed as supplementary to the provisions of this Charter.
SEC. 12.11. EXISTING ORDINANCES CONTINUED.
   All ordinances and regulations of the City in force when this Charter takes
effect, and not inconsistent with the provisions thereof, are hereby continued
in full force and effect until amended or repealed.
SEC. 12.12. PENDING CONDEMNATIONS, IMPROVEMENTS AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Any condemnation, improvement or assessment proceedings in progress when
this Charter takes effect shall be continued and completed under the laws under
which such proceedings were begun.
   All assessments made by the City prior to the time when this Charter takes
effect shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as
if this Charter had not been adopted.
SEC. 12.13. ORDINANCES TO MAKE CHARTER EFFECTIVE.
   The Council shall by ordinance, resolution or other appropriate action, take
such steps as may be necessary to carry out and make effective the provisions
of this Charter.
SEC. 12.14. TERMS OF PRESENT MAYOR AND COUNCILLORS.
   The present Mayor and Councillors shall, upon adoption of this Charter,
continue to serve their current terms.
SEC. 12.15. PURCHASES AND CONTRACTS.
   All written contracts entered into on behalf of the City shall be approved
by the Council and executed by the Mayor and the person designated by the
Council in the name of the City.
   All purchases and contracts shall be made or let in accordance with
applicable State law and requirements thereof for bidding, quotations, or
directly negotiated purchases.
SEC. 12.16. CERTIFICATION OF DOCUMENTS.
   As to all documents, certified copies of which are appropriate, it is the
duty of the person designated by the Council to make such certifications.
SEC. 12.17. DISPOSAL OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   The Council may, by ordinance, provide for a system of disposal of unclaimed
property coming into its possession in the course of municipal operations and
remaining unclaimed by the owner. Any such ordinance shall provide for the
manner of sale and the fund into which proceeds are to be placed.
SEC. 12.18. CITY PROPERTY NOT LOST BY ADVERSE POSSESSION.
   No right, title, estate or easement of the City in any property shall be
lost by adverse possession or occupancy, and no statute of limitations shall
operate against the City in favor of any person occupying any public property
or highway, whether such property shall have been improved or not.
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO THE ENTIRE CITY
CODE
INCLUDING PENALTY FOR VIOLATION
Section
   
1.01   Application
   
1.02   Definitions
   
1.03   Violation a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor
   
1.04   Otherwise unlawful
   
1.05   Severability
   
1.06   Payment into city treasury of fines and penalties
   
1.07   Meanings
   
1.08   Citation
   
1.09   Penalties for each offense
   
1.10   Titles
   
1.11   Reference to a public official
§ 1.01 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all the chapters,
sections, divisions, paragraphs and provisions in the city code, and the city
code shall apply to all persons and property within the City of Virginia,
Minnesota, and within adjacent area as may be stated in specific provisions.
§ 1.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW BOARD. A board that is comprised of the City Attorney,
the City Operations Director and the Police Chief. The purpose of this BOARD
shall be to provide a hearing for any administrative fines issued by the city
or any of its departments.
   CITY. The City of Virginia, Minnesota, acting by or through its duly
authorized representative.
   CITY CLERK. The person duly appointed by the City Council and acting in such
capacity.
   CONVICTION. Either of the following accepted and recorded by the court:
      (1)   A plea of guilty; or
      (2)   A verdict of guilty by a jury or a finding of guilty by the court.
   COUNCIL and CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Virginia,
Minnesota.
   COUNTY. St. Louis County, Minnesota.
   CRIME. Conduct which is prohibited by ordinance and for which the actor may
be sentenced to imprisonment or fine.
   EX OFFICIO MEMBER. A person who is not counted for the purpose of
determining a quorum and has no right to vote, but shall have the right and
obligation (within his or her discretion) to speak to any question coming
before the board, commission or other deliberative body of which he or she is a
member.
   INTERSECTION. The area embraced within the prolongation or connection of the
lateral curb line or, if no curb, then the lateral boundary lines of the
roadways or streets which join one another at, or approximately at, right
angles or the area within which vehicles traveling upon different streets
joining at any other angle may come in conflict.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MISDEMEANOR. The crime for which a sentence of not more than 90 days or a
fine of not more than $700, or both, may be imposed.
   ORDINANCE. An ordinance duly adopted by the City Council of Virginia,
Minnesota.
   PERSON. Includes all firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
natural persons.
   PETTY MISDEMEANOR. An offense, which does not constitute a crime, and for
which a sentence of a fine of not more than $200 may be imposed.
   POLICE OFFICER and PEACE OFFICER. Every officer, including special police,
authorized to direct or regulate traffic, keep the peace and appointed or
employed for the purpose of law enforcement.
   PREMISES. Any lot, piece or parcel of land within a continuous boundary
whether publicly or privately owned, occupied or possessed.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. All property not included within the definition of public
property or public place.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY and PUBLIC PLACE. Any place, property or premises dedicated
to public use, owned by the city, occupied by the city as a lessee, or occupied
by the city as a street by reason of an easement, including, but not limited
to, streets, parks or parking lots so owned or occupied.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a street improved, designed or ordinarily used for
vehicular travel. In the event a street includes two or more separate roadways,
the term ROADWAY, as used herein, shall refer to any such roadway separately,
but not to all such roadways collectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   STREET. The entire area dedicated to public use, or contained in an easement
or other conveyance or grant to the city, and shall include, but not be limited
to, roadways, boulevards, sidewalks, alleys and other public property between
lateral property lines in which a roadway lies.
   VIOLATE. Includes failure to comply with.
   WRITTEN and IN WRITING. Any mode of representing words and letters in the
English language.
(Amended 9-24-2010)
§ 1.03 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR A PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a chapter, section, division, paragraph or provision
of this city code when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor
or as for a petty misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific
provisions herein, as set forth in the specific chapter in which the section,
division, paragraph or provision violated appears. Upon conviction for a crime,
the actor may be convicted of either the crime charged if it is a misdemeanor
or a petty misdemeanor as an included offense necessarily proved if the
misdemeanor charge were proved.
§ 1.04 OTHERWISE UNLAWFUL.
   The city code does not authorize an act or omission otherwise prohibited by
law.
§ 1.05 SEVERABILITY.
   Every chapter, section, division, paragraph or provision of the city code
shall be, and is hereby declared, severable from every other chapter, section,
division, paragraph or provision and if any part or portion of any of them
shall be held invalid, it shall not affect or invalidate any other chapter,
section, division, paragraph or provision.
§ 1.06 PAYMENT INTO CITY TREASURY OF FINES AND PENALTIES.
   All fines, forfeitures and penalties recovered for the violation of any
ordinance, charter, rule or regulation of the city shall be paid into the City
Treasury by the court or officer thereof receiving such monies. Payment shall
be made in the manner, at the time and in the proportion provided by law.
§ 1.07 MEANINGS.
   As used in this city code, words of the male gender shall include the female
and neuter and the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular.
§ 1.08 CITATION.
   This codification of the ordinances of the city shall henceforth be known as
the “City Code of Virginia” and cited thus: “City Code, §            ”.
§ 1.09 PENALTIES FOR EACH OFFENSE.
   When a penalty or forfeiture is provided for the violation of a chapter,
section, division, paragraph or provision of this city code, the penalty or
forfeiture shall be construed to be for each violation.
§ 1.10 TITLES.
   A title or caption to or in any chapter, section, division, subparagraph or
other provision of the city code is for convenience only and shall not limit,
expand or otherwise alter or control the content, wording or interpretation
thereof.
§ 1.11 REFERENCE TO A PUBLIC OFFICIAL.
   Wherever an appointed public official is referred to in the city code, the
reference shall include the public official or his or her designee.
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATION AND GENERAL GOVERNMENT
Section
   
2.01   Authority and purpose
   
2.02   Right to administrative appeal
   
2.03   Rules of procedure for appeals and other hearings
   
2.04   Facsimile signatures
   
2.05   Accounts, claims or demands
   
2.06   Interim emergency succession
   
2.07   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
   
2.08   Worker’s compensation
   
2.09   Revisor of Ordinances
   
2.10   Prohibited employment
   2.11 through 2.29   Reserved for future expansion
   
2.30   Board of Appeals
   
2.31   Joint Airport Authority
   
2.32   Human Rights Commission
   
2.33   Library Commission
   
2.34   Planning and Zoning Commission
   
2.35   Park and Recreation Commission
   
2.36   Hospital Commission Advisory
   2.37 through 2.49   Reserved for future expansion
   
2.50   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles, unclaimed property and excess
property
   
2.51   Personnel rules and regulations
   
2.52   Annual Operating Reserve Account
   
2.53   Franchises
   
2.54   Special assessment policy
   
2.55   Local sales and use tax
   2.56 through 2.57   Reserved for future expansion
   
2.58   Regulations as to park lands
   2.59 through 2.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
2.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 2.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by charter, this chapter of the city code is
enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of the
city by and through the Council.
§ 2.02 RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the City
Clerk or any other city official, or any board or commission not having within
its structure an appellate procedure, the aggrieved person is entitled to a
full hearing before the Council upon serving a written request therefor upon
the Mayor and City Clerk at least five days prior to any regular Council
meeting. The request shall contain a general statement setting forth the
administrative decision to be challenged by the appellant. At the hearing, the
appellant may present any evidence he or she deems pertinent to the appeal, but
the city shall not be required to keep a verbatim record of the proceedings.
The Mayor, or other officer presiding at the hearing, may, in the interest of
justice or to comply with time requirements and on his or her own motion or the
motion of the appellant, the official whose decision is being appealed, or a
member of the Council, adjourn the hearing to a more convenient time or place,
but the time or place shall be fixed and determined before adjournment so as to
avoid the necessity for formal notice of reconvening.
§ 2.03 RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS AND OTHER HEARINGS.
   The Council may adopt, by resolution, certain written rules of procedure to
be followed in all administrative appeals and other hearings to be held before
the Council or other bodies authorized to hold hearings and determine questions
therein presented. The rules of procedure shall be effective 30 days after
adoption and shall be for the purpose of establishing and maintaining order and
decorum in the proceedings.
§ 2.04 FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.
   The Mayor, City Clerk and City Treasurer are hereby authorized to request a
depository of city funds to honor an order for payment when the instrument
bears a facsimile of his or her signature, and to charge the same to the
account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn, as effectively as though
it were his or her manually written signature. The authority is granted only
for the purpose of permitting the officers an economy of time and effort.
§ 2.05 ACCOUNTS, CLAIMS OR DEMANDS.
   (A)   Generally. Except as to an annual salary, fees of jurors or witnesses
fixed by law, or wages or salaries of employees which have been fixed on an
hourly, daily, weekly or monthly basis by the Council and which by law are
authorized to be paid on a payroll basis, any account, claim or demand against
the city which can be itemized in the ordinary course of business, the Council
shall not audit or allow the claim until the person claiming payment, or his or
her agent, reduces it to writing, in items, and signs a declaration to the
effect that the account, claim or demand is just and correct and that no part
of it has been paid.
   (B)   Discretionary exception. The Council may, in its discretion, allow a
claim prepared by the City Clerk prior to the declaration by the claimant if
the declaration is made on the check by which the claim is paid.
   (C)   Form of declaration. The declaration provided for in division (A)
above is sufficient in the following form: “I declare under the penalties of
law that this account, claim or demand is just and correct and that no part of
it has been paid.                              Signature of Claimant”.
   (D)   Form and effect of declaration on check. The declaration provided for
in division (B) above shall be printed on the reverse side of the check, above
the space for endorsement thereof by the payee, as follows: “The undersigned
payee, in endorsing this check declares that the same is received in payment of
a just and correct claim against the city, and that no part of it has
heretofore been paid”. When endorsed by the payee named in the check, the
statement shall operate and shall be deemed sufficient as the required
declaration of claim.
   (E)   Signing checks. All checks shall be signed by the Mayor, City Clerk
and City Treasurer.
§ 2.06 INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. Due to the existing possibility of a nuclear attack or a
natural disaster requiring a declaration of a state of emergency, it is found
urgent and necessary to ensure the continuity of duly elected and lawful
leadership of the city to provide for the continuity of the government and the
emergency interim succession of key governmental officials by providing a
method for temporary emergency appointments to their offices.
   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a nuclear attack upon the
United States or a natural disaster affecting the vicinity of the city, the
Mayor, Council and City Clerk shall be forthwith notified by any one of the
persons and by any means available to gather at the City Hall. In the event
that safety or convenience dictate, an alternative place of meeting may be
designated. Those gathered shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
nuclear attack or natural disaster and injuries to persons or damage to
property already done, or the imminence thereof.
      (3)   They may, based on such facts, declare a state of emergency.
      (4)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
they shall fill all positions on the Council, (including the office of Mayor)
of those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      (5)   The interim successors shall serve until the time as the duly
elected official is again available and returns to his or her position, or the
state of emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as
required by law, whichever shall occur first.
   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of their offices, and appoint other key
government officials to serve during the emergency.
§ 2.07 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The salary of the Council members shall be set at the sum of $300 per
month.
   (B)   The salary of the Mayor shall be set at the sum of $500 per month.
   (C)   There are a number of special meetings and other scheduled meetings in
addition to the regular meetings of the Council and additional compensation
should be awarded for attendance at these meetings.
      (1)   For attendance at the Committee of the Whole meetings scheduled on
the first and third Tuesday of each month, regularly at 9:00 a.m., each member
of the Council shall receive $100 per meeting for attendance.
      (2)   Any additional meetings including all non-regular meetings of
either committees of the Council or Council-as-a-whole such as, but not limited
to, budget meetings, committee meetings and other meetings as may be considered
formal meetings which are either scheduled or at the call of the Mayor or any
three members of the Council and at which city business is considered shall be
paid $35 for attendance at each meeting.
   (D)   The salaries of the Mayor and Council members provided for in this
section, which are deemed reasonable, shall take effect after the next regular
city election.
(Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§ 2.08 WORKER’S COMPENSATION.
   All officers of the city elected or appointed for a regular term of office
or to complete the unexpired portion of any such regular term shall be included
in the definition of “employee”, as defined in state statutes relating to
coverage for purposes of worker’s compensation entitlement.
§ 2.09 REVISOR OF ORDINANCES.
   In addition to the duties of the City Attorney enumerated in the charter, he
or she shall have the title and duties of “Revisor of Ordinances”.
§ 2.10 PROHIBITED EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Prohibition. No person holding or occupying any elective office of the
city shall be employed by the city within one year from the date that the
person leaves the elective office.
   (B)   Exception. The Council shall determine, by unanimous vote of the full
Council, that if a former office holder should be employed by the city within
the aforementioned one-year period as being in the best interests of the city,
and that there has not been, nor exists, any conflict of interest arising from
the official’s actions while occupying office, then the city may employ the
former official during this year period.
(Ord. 114, effective 5-14-1977)
§§ 2.11 THROUGH 2.29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 2.30 BOARD OF APPEALS.
Editor’s note:
   The Board of Appeals is provided for in City Code, §§
11.50(C)(1) and
17.12.
§ 2.31 JOINT AIRPORT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. There is hereby created pursuant to
M.S. § 360.042, and acts amendatory thereof, a Joint Airport Authority to be
known as the Eveleth-Virginia Airport Authority, composed of six members, three
of whom shall be appointed by a majority vote of the City Council of the City
of Eveleth, and three of whom shall be appointed by a majority vote of the City
Council of the City of Virginia. Two members shall be City Council persons,
appointed by a majority vote of the City Council of the City of Eveleth, and
two members shall be City Council persons, appointed by a majority vote of the
City Council of the City of Virginia. The members of the Authority shall serve
without compensation.
(Amended 7-15-1991)
      (1)   Each city may appoint a City Council member as an alternate to
attend the Authority meetings in the absence of one of their City Council
members.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. § 360.042, the members of the Joint Airport
Authority must include inhabitants of the Cities and the members of the Joint
Airport Authority must be appointed by the governing body of each City in the
manner set forth in the Joint Powers Agreement.
      (3)   Quorum. One member of the Eveleth City Council and one member of
the Virginia City Council must be present at a meeting, along with two other
members from either city to constitute a quorum of the Authority.
   (B)   Term of office. Effective September 8, 2020, the current members’ of
the Authority terms shall end and new members shall be appointed effective
September 8, 2020. City Council persons’ terms shall be for one year with the
first term expiring December 31, 2021. The term of the remaining members shall
be one year with the first term expiring December 31, 2021. If a member vacates
his/her position before the end of his/her term, a replacement shall be
appointed by a majority of the City of Eveleth or City of Virginia City Council
and shall serve the remaining portion of that term. A member may be removed at
any time, with or without cause, by resolution of the City Council making the
appointment. The resolution removing the member must be filed with the
Secretary.
   (C)   Officers. The Joint Authority shall elect one of the appointed City
Council persons to be Chairperson of the Authority, one of the appointed City
Council persons to be Vice-Chairperson and shall appoint a Secretary and
Treasurer who must be members of the Authority. The officers so elected or
appointed shall hold office for the term of one year and until their successors
are appointed and qualified. The first terms will expire December 31, 2021.
   (D)   Duties and powers of the Authority.
      (1)   The Authority shall have full authority and responsibility for the
maintenance, management and regulation of the Eveleth Municipal Airport.
      (2)   The Authority shall oversee construction at the airport, with prior
approval of Eveleth City Council and Virginia City Council.
      (3)   The Authority shall not acquire necessary property for and to
establish, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, operate and regulate
and take over air navigation facilities and airport protection privileges to be
acquired, controlled and operated by without prior approval of the Eveleth City
Council and the Virginia City Council.
      (4)   The Authority, with prior approval of the Eveleth City Council and
the Virginia City Council, may enter into contracts with the county pursuant to
M.S. Ch. 303.
      (5)   Rules and regulations provided for by M.S. § 303.17(3), as it may
be amended from time to time, may be adopted by the Authority, but shall be
enacted only after approval by the respective city councils, pursuant to the
provisions of M.S. § 303.20, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (6)   No real property, other air navigation facility or air protection
privileges, shall be disposed of by the Authority by sale or lease or
otherwise, except by authority of both city councils.
      (7)   The Authority may lease space, area or improvements and grant
concessions for aeronautic purposes or purposes incidental thereto subject to
the provisions in M.S. § 303.17(4), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (8)   The Authority, with prior approval from the City Council of Eveleth
and the City Council of Virginia, shall have authority to hire or retain
professional services (which includes the Airport Manager and Fixed Base
Operator and Airport Engineer) that may be necessary for maintenance and
management of the Airport. The City of Eveleth or City of Virginia will provide
a staff person to be the Authority Coordinator. Such Authority Coordinator will
be paid by the Authority at a rate agreed upon by the City of Eveleth and City
of Virginia.
      (9)   The Authority shall set the hangar land lease rates for commercial
and non- commercial hangars land lease agreements, and lease rates for the
airport buildings, all subject to prior approval from the City Council of
Eveleth and the City Council of Virginia. All lease agreements are subject to
prior approval from the City Council of Eveleth and the City Council of
Virginia.
      (10)   Conflict of interest. No member of the Authority shall have an
immediate familial, employer, or employee relationship with the Airport
Manager, Fixed Base Operator, Airport Coordinator, fiscal agent for the city,
or the City Council of Eveleth or the City Council of Virginia.
      (11)   Signatures. The Authority Chairperson, Authority Secretary, or
Fiscal Agent representative may sign all documents and correspondence on behalf
of the Authority.
      (12)   The Authority shall keep and maintain full and complete financial
records including a perpetual inventory of all property, real and personal,
showing the approximate date acquired and the cost thereof. The fiscal agent
for the Authority shall be either the City of Eveleth or the City of Virginia.
   (E)   Contributions to capital costs. The City of Eveleth and the City of
Virginia, subject to qualifications hereinafter set forth, shall contribute
equally to that portion of the cost of additional lands that may be added to
the present Eveleth Municipal Airport and the capital cost of construction
improvements and development of the airport which is not covered by the county
of St. Louis, state and federal contributions thereto. Title to the present
airport shall remain in the City of Eveleth and title to any additions thereto
shall be taken in the names of the City of Eveleth and of the City of Virginia
and the cities shall share equally in the ownership thereof.
(Ord. 74, effective 10-6-1951)
   (F)   Operating costs. The City of Eveleth and the City of Virginia shall
share equally in the cost of maintaining and operating the airport and all
additions thereto. Neither city shall charge the Authority any rentals or other
compensation for the use of airport, easements or airport facilities, now or
hereafter acquired or installed.
   (G)   Budget. The Authority shall, each year prior to August 1, prepare a
budget for financing the airport for the ensuing calendar year. A copy of the
budget shall, not later than August 1, be furnished to the City Council of the
City of Eveleth and the City Council of the City of Virginia and shall contain
the following items:
      (1)   Estimated revenues divided as follows:
         (a)   Federal and state grants;
         (b)   Contributions from the City of Eveleth;
         (c)   Contribution from the City of Virginia;
         (d)   Contribution from the County of St. Louis;
         (e)   Contributions from the State of Minnesota;
         (f)   Contributions from the United States of America;
         (g)   Miscellaneous revenues.
      (2)   Estimated expenditures:
         (a)   Personnel services;
         (b)   Services other than personnel;
         (c)   Supplies and maintenance;
         (d)   Equipment;
         (e)   Real estate and improvements;
         (f)   Miscellaneous expenditures; and
         (g)   Capital funds for approved projects.
      (3)   Final decision of the respective City Councils as to requested
contributions shall be reported to the Authority which shall adjust its budget
if necessary so that its budget may at all times be balanced. If either City
Council fixes its contribution at less than one-half of the amount requested by
the Authority, the contribution of the other shall be proportionately reduced
unless the latter shall decide to pay a larger portion of the total
contributions. Money not expended in the budget may be earned over to the
following year.
      (4)   The Authority shall not have power to levy taxes or borrow money
and it shall not approve any claim or incur any obligations for expenditures
unless there is unencumbered cash in the appropriate airport fund to the credit
of the Authority with which to pay the same. If there are any surplus revenues
over the cost of maintenance and operation costs, the Authority may, if it so
elects, instead of carrying over the same to the following year, return the
same to the respective cities and county in the same proportion as they were
contributed by the cities and the county.
   (H)   Finances. All receipts belonging to the Authority shall be deposited
in a bank selected by the City of Eveleth and the City of Virginia, and
credited to the account of the Joint Airport Authority. No disbursements shall
be made, except by check in a manner as the Authority may determine, nor unless
a verified claim for services and commodities actually rendered or delivered as
fees shall be submitted to and approved for payment by the Authority, and
authenticated by the signature of the Chairperson or Treasurer of the Authority
and the Administrator for the fiscal agent. An audit of the funds of the
Authority shall be made annually. Such audits may be made of the funds of
either the City of Eveleth or the City of Virginia.
   (I)   Reports. The Authority as soon as possible after the end of each
calendar year shall prepare and present to each City Council a comprehensive
report of its activities and finances. The Authority shall also prepare and
present federal and state officials with reports as may be required by law,
regulation or contract.
   (J)   Disposition of property upon termination. This section when adopted by
the City Council of the City of Virginia and when a concurrent ordinance is
adopted by the City Council of the City of Eveleth shall constitute a contract
between the cities, and shall remain in full force and effect for 20 years
thereafter; provided, however, that, the provisions thereof, except as to the
duration of the contract, may be amended by mutual agreement of said cities.
Thereafter, it shall continue in force from year to year. If either city
desires to terminate the joint operation of the airport and the Joint
Authority, it shall notify the other city to that effect and the City of
Eveleth and the City of Virginia shall dispose of all property which may have
been acquired including surplus fluids in manner that shall then be agreed
upon. The City of Eveleth shall, at all times, retain title to the lands,
easements and structures presently included in the Eveleth Municipal Airport.
If no agreement as to disposition of additional acquired lands, property and
facilities is reached within three months after termination of the plan for
joint operation of the airport, the respective City Councils shall each appoint
some person who may be a city official, as its representative and the Minnesota
Commission of Aeronautics shall appoint a third person who shall together
compose an advisory Board for the disposition of the airport property. This
Board shall, as soon as possible, prepare and recommend to the City Council of
each city a complete plan for the disposition of all additional lands,
structures and facilities acquired subsequent to the passing of this section.
   (K)   Consideration abandonment of Virginia Airport. In consideration of
passage of an ordinance by the City of Eveleth vesting in the Joint Airport
Authority the management and operation of the present Eveleth Municipal Airport
so that the Airport and its facilities are available to both cities, the City
of Virginia hereby abandons the Virginia Municipal Airport, and from and after
12-31-1951, the airport shall be closed and it shall cease to operate and
function as an airport and the use of the land for airport purposes shall, on
that date, be discontinued.
(Ord. 74, effective 10-6-1951; Am. Ord. passed 2-26-2019; Am. Ord. passed 9-8-
2020)
§ 2.32 HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION.
   (A)   Policy and purpose. It is the public policy of the city to fulfill its
responsibility as a partner of the state’s Department of Human Rights in
securing for all citizens equal opportunity in housing, employment, public
accommodations, public services and education and to work consistently to
improve the human relations climate of the city. The purpose of the Commission
is to secure for all citizens equal opportunity in employment, housing, public
accommodations, public services and education and full participation in the
affairs of the community by assisting the state’s Department of Human Rights in
implementing the state’s Act Against Discrimination, being M.S. §§ 363A.01 et
seq. and by advising the city on long range programs to improve community
relations in the city.
   (B)   Establishment and composition. A Human Rights Commission is hereby
established. Members of the Commission shall be appointed with due regard to
their fitness for the efficient dispatch of the functions, powers and duties
vested in and imposed upon the Commission.
   (C)   Duties and responsibilities. In fulfillment of its purpose, the
Commission’s duties and responsibilities shall be to:
      (1)   Adopt bylaws and rules for the conduct of its affairs including the
election, assumption of duties and definition of responsibilities of officers
and committees;
      (2)   Draft a memorandum of agreement with the state’s Department of
Human Rights for the purpose of determining regulatory and enforcement
procedures;
      (3)   Enlist the cooperation of agencies, organizations and individuals
in the community in an active program directed to create equal opportunity and
eliminate discrimination and inequalities;
      (4)   Formulate a human relations program for the city to give increased
effectiveness and direction to the work of all individuals and agencies
addressing themselves to planning, policy making and educational programming in
the area of civil and human rights;
      (5)   Advise the Mayor, the Council and other agencies of the government
on human relations and civil rights problems. Act in an advisory capacity with
respect to planning or operation of any city department on issues of civil and
human rights and recommend the adoption of such specific policies or actions as
are needed to provide for full equal opportunity in the community; and
      (6)   Develop in cooperation with the state’s Department of Human Rights
such programs of formal and informal education as will assist in the
implementation of the state’s Act Against Discrimination and provide for the
Commission’s assumption of leadership in recognizing and resolving potential
problem areas in the community.
   (D)   Handling reports of discrimination.
      (1)   Definition. An unfair discriminatory practice is any act described
in § 363.03 of the state’s Human Rights Act.
      (2)   Option. Anyone may report information of an unfair discriminatory
practice to either the Commission or the state’s Department of Human Rights, as
specified in § 363.116 of the state’s Human Rights Act: “The charging party has
the option of filing a charge either with a local commission or the department.
The exercise of such choice filing a charge with one agency shall preclude the
option of filing the same charge with the other agency. At the time a charge
comes to the attention of a local agency, the agency or its representatives
shall inform the charging party of this option, and of his rights under this
act”.
      (3)   Principles. In handling reports of discrimination, the Commission
shall make every effort to find solutions that improve human relations in the
city, that do not increase polarization of citizens, and that respect the
rights of all parties to any charge of discrimination. The more formal and
specific the charges, the more formal the procedures for handling the matter.
The Commission’s primary role is advisory and persuasive; it does not possess
some of the quasi-judicial functions of the state’s Department of Human Rights.
      (4)   Investigation. Commissioners as assigned by the Chairperson shall
investigate any report of an unfair discriminatory practice to determine
whether there is probable cause to believe that any allegation of unfair
discrimination is well founded. The Commission shall immediately endeavor to
eliminate any unfair discriminatory practice or to resolve the matter by
conciliation and persuasion. The Commission shall carry on such activities in
consultation with the City Attorney’s office.
      (5)   Commission review. Reports will be made at each Commission meeting
on the progress of all current investigations of reports of discrimination. At
the conclusion of each investigation, the Commission shall ordinarily adopt a
statement of its findings and recommendations. (Commission recommendations may
include suggestions for further conciliation, specific actions by either party
to the matter or administrative or legislative remedy.)
      (6)   Referrals. The Commission may refer matters needing further
investigation or action beyond the Commission’s authority to the Council, the
Board of Education or school district administration or to the state’s
Department of Human Rights.
      (7)   Reports. The findings and recommendations of the Commission shall
be reported in writing to all parties involved in a report of unfair
discrimination, to the Council and/or Board of Education, and to the state’s
Department of Human Rights.
   (E)   Formal charges and hearings.
      (1)   Charges. In the event the report of an unfair discriminatory
practice appears to be well founded and cannot be resolved by conciliation,
persuasion and/or administrative or legislative remedy, a verified written
charge under oath may be filed with the Commission. Such a charge shall state
the name and address of each person complained against (respondent) and shall
set forth the pertinent facts as known to the charging party. A charge of an
unfair discriminatory practice must be filed within six months of the
occurrence of the practice. The Commission shall hold a hearing within 30 days
of the filing of the charges.
      (2)   Setting hearing. The Commission shall set a time and place within
the city for the hearing of the charge of unfair discrimination and the answers
to the allegations thereof.
      (3)   Notice. All affected parties shall be given notice of the time and
place of hearing at least ten days prior to the date of hearing by registered
mail or other personal service.
      (4)   Conduct of hearing. In conducting a hearing, the Commission shall
have full authority to administer oaths, to receive testimony and other
competent evidence relative to the matters in question, and to hear, examine
and cross-examine witnesses. Both the charging party and the respondent shall
appear in person at the hearing and may be represented by counsel; both may
call witnesses on their behalf and take their testimony. All witnesses,
including the charging party and the respondent, may be examined and cross-
examined. The Commission shall not be bound by the strict rules of evidence
applicable to judicial proceedings, but its findings must be based on competent
evidence. Each witness shall testify under oath. A stenographic record shall be
made of the proceedings or an electronic recording device may be used. A member
of the City Attorney’s staff shall be present at the hearing and shall assist
the Commission in the conduct of the hearing.
      (5)   Commission action. At the conclusion of a hearing, the Commission
shall adopt a statement of its findings and recommendations and report same in
writing to all parties involved, to the Council and/or Board of Education and
to the state’s Department of Human Rights.
      (6)   Referral to City Attorney. The findings and recommendations of the
Commission shall be forwarded to the City Attorney for determination as to
whether or not a criminal complaint should be issued concerning the alleged
unfair discriminatory practice.
(Ord.101, effective 3-8-1969; Ord. 101-A, effective 6-26-1976)
§ 2.33 LIBRARY COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Library Advisory Commission is hereby
created to consist of five members serving three-year terms. The current
members of the Commission shall serve out their remaining terms.
(Adopted 1-25-1994; amended 5-12-1998; amended 2-28-2006)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. It is the duty and responsibility of the
Commission to advise and make recommendations to the City Council on matters
relating to the library. The Commission shall perform all duties assigned to it
from time to time by the City Council.
(Adopted 1-25-1994; amended 5-12-1998)
§ 2.34 PLANNING AND ZONING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Planning and Zoning Commission is
hereby created to consist of five members serving three-year terms. Two
Commissioners’ terms shall expire the first year, two terms the second year and
one term the third year. Commissioners shall be appointed in accordance with
the city charter.
(Adopted 1-25-1994; amended 5-12-1998)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   The Department of Planning and Zoning shall be governed by the
Planning and Zoning Commission. It shall be the duty of the Commission to make
plans for the direction and extent of the city’s settled territorial area and
for the arrangement of streets and the location of park and school areas; to
divide the territory of the city into residential, commercial and other zones;
to propose changes in previously established zones; to propose rules regulating
the location of buildings on lots or in relation to other buildings; to propose
rules or specifications concerning the structure of any building to be erected
in the city. No plat restrictions relating to use of premises or location of
buildings on the premises shall be valid without prior approval of the
Commission.
      (2)   No zoning or building proposal by the Commission shall take effect
until it shall have been enacted as an ordinance, as in this charter described,
by the Council. No exception to any building or zoning ordinance shall be made
by the Council, except by resolution and unless the exception shall have been
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission. The Commission shall perform
all duties assigned to it from time to time by the City Council.
(Amended 5-12-1998)
§ 2.35 PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Powers and duties.
      (1)    A Park and Recreation Commission is hereby created to consist of
seven members serving three-year terms.
      (2)   It is the duty and responsibility of the Commission to advise the
Council on park and recreation issues.
      (3)   The City Council shall assign the Park and Recreation Commission
duties to be performed on an as-needed basis.
(Amended 1-25-1994; amended 2-13-1996; amended 5-12-1998; amended 6-22-1999;
amended 11-3-2001; amended 2-8-2005; amended 2-23-2010; amended 2-28-2012)
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. A Park and Recreation Commission shall be
established to advise the Council on park and recreation issues. The City
Council shall assign the Park and Recreation Commission duties to be performed
on an as-needed basis. The Commission shall perform all duties assigned to it
from time to time by the City Council.
(Amended 5-12-1998; Am. Ord. passed 11-27-2018)
§ 2.36 HOSPITAL COMMISSION ADVISORY.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Hospital Commission is hereby created to
consist of three voting members serving three-year terms and there shall also
be two non-voting members; consisting of the City Attorney and one Council
member. It is the duty and responsibility of the Commission to advise the
Council on hospital issues. The City Council shall assign the Hospital
Commission duties to be performed on an as-needed basis.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities. The Commission shall be advisory in
nature. Their primary responsibility shall be to oversee the terms and
conditions of the lease with Essential Health and to monitor the hospital
building and grounds which are still owned by the city.
   (C)   Meetings. The Commission shall meet quarterly each year, and from time
to time, as needed.
   (D)   Reports. The Commission shall provide the City Council a written
report for each quarterly meeting.
(Adopted 12-11-2012)
§§ 2.37 THROUGH 2.49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 2.50 DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES, UNCLAIMED PROPERTY AND EXCESS
PROPERTY.
   (A)   Disposal of abandoned motor vehicles.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
         ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in M.S. Ch. 169,
as it may be amended from time to time, that has remained for a period of more
than 48 hours on public property illegally or lacking vital component parts, or
has remained for a period of more than 48 hours on private property without the
consent of the person in control of the property, or in an inoperable condition
such that it has no substantial potential further use consistent with its usual
function unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It shall
also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to and accepted
by the city. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. Ch. 168, as it
may be amended from time to time, shall not be considered an ABANDONED MOTOR
VEHICLE within the meaning of this section. Vehicles on the premises of
junkyards or automobile graveyards, which are licensed and maintained in
accordance with the city code, shall not be considered ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
within the meaning of this section.
         VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are
essential to the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not
limited to, the motor, drive train and wheels.
      (2)   Custody. The city may take into custody and impound any abandoned
motor vehicle.
      (3)   Immediate sale. When an abandoned motor vehicle is more than seven
model years of age, is lacking vital component parts and does not display a
license plate currently valid in Minnesota or any other state or foreign
country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale at public auction, and shall
not be subject to the notification, reclamation or title provisions of this
division (A).
      (4)   Notice.
         (a)   When an abandoned motor vehicle does not fall within the
provisions of division (A)(3) above, the city shall give notice of the taking
within ten days. The notice shall set forth the date and place of the taking,
the year, make, model and serial, number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if the
information can be reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is
being held, shall inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to
reclaim the vehicle under division (A)(5) below, and shall state that failure
of the owner or lienholder to exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle and
contents shall be deemed a waiver by them of all rights, title and interest in
the vehicle and a consent to the sale of the vehicle and contents at a public
auction pursuant to division (A)(6) below.
         (b)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if
any, of the abandoned motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable lienholders
of record. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the
identity and address of the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice
shall be published once in the official newspaper. Published notices may be
grouped together for convenience and economy.
      (5)   Right to reclaim.
         (a)   The owner or any lienholder of an abandoned motor vehicle shall
have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city upon payment of all towing
and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15
days after the date of the notice required by this division (A).
         (b)   Nothing in this division (A) shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garage keeper under the laws of the state, or the right of the
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this division (A)(5), GARAGE
KEEPER is an operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a
motor vehicle storage facility or an operator of an establishment for the
servicing, repair or maintenance of motor vehicles.
      (6)   Public sale.
         (a)   An abandoned motor vehicle and contents taken into custody and
not reclaimed under division (A)(5) above shall be sold to the highest bidder
at public auction or sale, following one notice published at least seven days
prior to the auction or sale. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title
to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to
register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and claims of ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of
title, it must receive a motor vehicle safety check.
         (b)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned motor vehicle, the
city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and storing the
vehicle and all administrative, notice and publication costs incurred pursuant
to this division (A)(6). Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be
held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days and then
shall be deposited in the General Fund of the city.
      (7)   Disposal of vehicles not sold. Where no bid has been received for
an abandoned motor vehicle, the city may dispose of it in accordance with this
division (A).
      (8)   Contracts and disposal.
         (a)   The city may contract with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
         (b)   Where the city enters into a contract with a person duly
licensed by the state’s Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the
contract to determine whether it conforms to the Agency’s plan for solid waste
disposal. A contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency. Where
a contract has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
         (c)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel for
disposal of the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement
for the cost thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
   (B)   Disposal of unclaimed property.
      (1)   Definition. The term ABANDONED PROPERTY means tangible or
intangible property that has lawfully come into the possession of the city in
the course of municipal operations, remains unclaimed by the owner, and has
been in the possession of the city for at least 60 days and has been declared
such by a resolution of the Council.
      (2)   Preliminary notice. If the City Clerk knows the identity and
whereabouts of the owner, he or she shall serve written notice upon him or her
at least 30 days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If the
city acquired possession from a prior holder, the identity and whereabouts of
whom are known by the City Clerk notice shall also be served upon him or her.
The notice shall describe the property and state that unless it is claimed and
proof of ownership, or entitlement to possession established, the matter of
declaring it abandoned property will be brought to the attention of the Council
after the expiration of 30 days from the date of the notice.
      (3)   Notice and sale.
         (a)   Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain property to be
abandoned property, the City Clerk shall publish a notice thereof describing
the same, together with the names (if known) and addresses (if known) of prior
owners and holders thereof, and including a brief description of the property.
The text of the notice shall also state the time, place and manner of sale of
all property, except cash and negotiables. The notice shall be published once
at least three weeks prior to sale.
         (b)   Sale shall be made to the highest bidder at public auction or
sale conducted in the manner directed by the Council in its resolution
declaring property abandoned and stated in the notice.
      (4)   Fund and claims thereon. All proceeds from such sale shall be paid
into the General Fund of the city and expenses thereof paid therefrom. The
former owner, if he makes claim within eight months from the date of
publication of the notice herein provided, and upon application and
satisfactory proof of ownership, may be paid the amount of cash or negotiables
or, in the case of property sold, the amount received therefor, less a pro rata
share of the expenses of storage, publication of notice and sale expenses, but
without interest. The payment shall be also made from the General Fund.
   (C)   Disposal of excess property.
      (1)   Declaration of surplus and authorizing sale of property. The City
Clerk may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that certain personal
property (chattels) owned by the city is no longer needed for a municipal
purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council, the property shall be
declared surplus, the value estimated and the City Clerk authorized to dispose
of the property in the manner stated herein.
      (2)   Surplus property with a total estimated value of less than $100.
The City Clerk may sell surplus property with a total value of less than $100
through negotiated sale.
      (3)   Surplus property with a total estimated value between $100 and
$500. The City Clerk shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder,
surplus property with a total estimated value of from $100 to $500. Notice of
the public sale shall be given stating time and place of sale and generally
describing the property to be sold at least ten days prior to the date of sale
either by publication once in the official newspaper, or by posting in a
conspicuous place in the City Hall at the City Clerk’s option. The sale shall
be by auction.
      (4)   Surplus property with a total estimated value over $500. The City
Clerk shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder, surplus property with
a total estimated value over $500. Notice of the public sale shall be given
stating time and place of sale and generally describing property to be sold at
least ten days prior to the date of sale by publication once in the official
newspaper. The sale shall be to the person submitting the highest bid.
      (5)   Receipts from sales of surplus property. All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this section shall be placed in the General Fund.
   (D)   Persons who may not purchase; exception.
      (1)   No employee of the city who is a member of the administrative
staff, department head, a member of the Council or an advisor serving the city
in a professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under this section.
Other city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly involved in the
sale, if they are the highest responsible bidder, and if at least one week’s
published or posted notice of sale is given.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under
this section if the purchase is prohibited by the terms of this section.
§ 2.51 PERSONNEL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish personnel rules setting forth the
rights, duties and responsibilities of employees. The rules may from time to
time be amended.
§ 2.52 ANNUAL OPERATING RESERVE ACCOUNT.
   (A)   Where the city issues general obligation corporate purpose bonds, the
city will create and establish a permanent Annual Operating Reserve Account
Fund, which amount shall be equal to the total amounts of the general
obligation corporate purpose bonds, subject to the following terms and
conditions:
      (1)   The funds in the reserve account will be available for internal
transfer to other city funds during the fiscal year of the city;
      (2)   The reserve account must be reimbursed and brought to its original
funded amount by the end of each of the city’s fiscal years;
      (3)   Any and all interest income earned from the principal amount of the
fund shall be transferred at the end of each fiscal year to the General Fund;
and
      (4)   In the event that the city is unable to repay all of the principal
and/or interest of the general obligation corporate purpose bonds as they
become due, the reserve account shall be used for the purpose of the interest
and/or principal payment, but only if there is no other viable and alternate
means of the repayment from other city sources.
   (B)   It is incumbent upon the city to replace the amounts used for the bond
principal and interest payment to bring the fund up to its original principal
amount as soon as is reasonably and financially possible.
(Ord. 124, effective 7-2-1983)
§ 2.53 FRANCHISES.
   (A)   Definition. The term FRANCHISE, as used in this section, shall be
construed to mean any special privileges granted to any person in, over, upon
or under any of the streets or public places of the city, whether the privilege
has heretofore been granted by it or by the state or shall hereafter be granted
by the city or by the state.
   (B)   Franchise ordinances. The Council may grant franchises by ordinance.
Franchise rights shall always be subject to the superior right of the public to
the use of streets and public places. All persons desiring to make any
burdensome use of the streets or public places, inconsistent with the public’s
right in such places, or desiring the privilege of placing in, over, upon or
under any street or public place any permanent or semipermanent fixtures for
the purpose of constructing or operating railways, telegraphing or transmitting
electricity, or transporting by pneumatic tubes, or for furnishing to the city
or its inhabitants or any portion thereof, transportation facilities, water,
light, heat, power, gas or any other utility, or for any other purpose, shall
be required to obtain a franchise before proceeding to make use of the streets
or public places or before proceeding to place the fixtures in these places.
   (C)   Power of regulation reserved. The city shall have the right and power
to regulate and control the exercise by any person, of any franchise however
acquired, and whether the franchise has been heretofore granted by it or by the
state.
   (D)   Conditions in every franchise. All conditions specified in this
section shall be a part of every franchise even though they may not be
expressly contained in the franchise.
      (1)   The grantee shall be subject to and will perform on its part all
the terms of this section and will comply with all pertinent provisions of any
city charter and the city code, as the same may from time to time be amended.
      (2)   The grantee shall in no case claim or pretend to exercise any power
to fix fares, rates and charges; but that such fares, rates and charges shall
at all times be just, fair and reasonable for the services rendered and shall
in all cases be fixed and from time to time changed, unless regulated by an
agency of the state, in the manner following.
         (a)   A reasonable rate shall be construed to be one which will, with
efficient management, normally yield above all operating expenses and
depreciation, a fair return upon all money invested.
         (b)   If possible, maximum rates and charges shall be arrived at by
direct negotiation with the Council.
         (c)   If direct negotiations fail to produce agreement, the Council
shall, not less than 30 days before the expiration of any existing rate
schedule or agreement, appoint an expert as its representative, the franchisee
shall likewise appoint an expert as its representative and the two of them
shall appoint a third person, preferably an expert, and the three of them shall
constitute a Board of Arbitration. The Board shall report its findings as soon
as possible and the rates and charges it shall agree upon by majority vote
shall be legal and binding, subject only to review by a court of competent
jurisdiction upon application of one of the parties.
      (3)   The Council shall have the right to require reasonable extensions
of any public service system from time to time, and to make rules and
regulations as may be required to secure adequate and proper service and to
provide sufficient accommodations for the public.
      (4)   The grantee shall not issue any capital stock on account of the
franchise or the value thereof, and that the grantee shall have no right to
receive upon condemnation proceedings brought by the city to acquire the public
utility exercising the franchise, any return on account of the franchise or its
value.
      (5)   No sale or lease of the franchise shall be effective until the
assignee or lessee shall have filed with the city an instrument, duly executed,
reciting the facts of the sale or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise
and agreeing to perform all the conditions required of the grantee thereunder.
      (6)   Every grant in the franchise contained of permission for the
erection of poles, masts or other fixtures in the streets and for the
attachment of wires thereto, or for the laying of tracks in, or of pipes or
conduits under the streets or public places, or for the placing in the streets
or other public places of any permanent or semi-permanent fixtures whatsoever,
shall be subject to the conditions that the Council shall have the power to
require alterations therein, or relocation or rerouting thereof, as the Council
may, at any time, deem necessary for the safety, health or convenience of the
public, and particularly that it shall have the power to require the removal of
poles, masts and other fixtures bearing wires and the placing underground of
all facilities for whatsoever purpose used.
      (7)   Every franchise shall contain a provision granting the city the
right to acquire the same in accordance with statute.
      (8)   The franchisee may be obligated by the city to pay the city fees to
raise revenue or defray increased costs accruing as a result of utility
operations, or both, including, but not limited to, a sum of money based upon
gross operating revenues or gross earnings from its operations in the city.
   (E)   Further provisions of franchises. The enumeration and specification of
particular matters which must be included in every franchise or renewal or
extension thereof, shall not be construed as impairing the right of the city to
insert in any franchise or renewal or extension thereof other and further
conditions and restrictions as the Council may deem proper to protect the
city’s interests, nor shall anything contained in this section limit any right
or power possessed by the city over existing franchises.
§ 2.54 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT POLICY.
   The Council may, by resolution, adopt, from time to time amend or repeal a
special assessment policy.
§ 2.55 LOCAL SALES AND USE TAX.
   (A)   Authority. Pursuant to Session Laws 2019, First Special Session,
Chapter 6, Article 6, Section 30, the state legislature has authorized the city
to impose a local sales and use tax to provide revenues to pay the costs of
collecting and administering the tax to the State Commissioner of Revenue, and
to finance the capital and administrative costs related to the funding of
designated projects as defined in Session Laws 2019, First Special Session,
Chapter 6, Article 6, Section 30, and approved by the voters at the November 6,
2018, referendum.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following words, terms,
and phrases have the meanings given them in this section unless the language or
context clearly indicates a different meaning is intended.
      CITY. The City of Virginia, Minnesota.
      COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Revenue of the State of Minnesota, or a
person to whom the Commissioner has delegated functions.
      DESIGNATED PROJECTS. The renovation, reconstruction, expansion and
improvements of the Miner’s Memorial Recreation Complex and Convention Center,
as authorized by the Minnesota Legislature in Session Laws 2019, First Special
Session, Chapter 6, Article 6, Section 30, and approved by the voters at the
November 6, 2018, referendum.
      STATE SALES AND USE TAX LAWS AND RULES. Those provisions of the state
revenue laws applicable to state sales and use tax imposition, administration,
collection, and enforcement, including M.S. Chs. 270C, 289A, 297A, and
Minnesota Rules Ch. 8130, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Local sales and use tax imposed; amount of tax; coordination with
state sales and use tax laws and rules. A local sales tax is imposed in the
amount of one percent on the gross receipts from sales at retail sourced within
city limits that are taxable under the state sales and use tax laws and rules.
A local use tax is imposed in the amount of one percent on the storage, use,
distribution or consumption of goods or services sourced within city limits
that are taxable under the state sales and use tax laws and rules. All of the
provisions of the state sales and use tax laws and rules apply to the local
sales and use tax imposed by this chapter. The local sales and use tax imposed
by this chapter shall be collected and remitted to the Commissioner on any sale
or purchase when the state sales tax must be collected and remitted to the
Commissioner under the state sales and use tax laws and rules, and is in
addition to the state sales and use tax.
   (D)   Effective date of tax; transitional sales. 
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the local sales and use tax
imposed by this chapter shall apply to sales and purchases made on or after
January 1, 2020.
      (2)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall not apply
to:
         (a)   The gross receipts from retail sales or leases of tangible
personal property made pursuant to a bona fide written contract, which
unconditionally vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto,
provided that such contract was enforceable prior to January 1, 2020, and that
delivery of the tangible personal property subject thereto is made on or before
January 1, 2020.
         (b)   The gross receipts from retail sales made pursuant to a bona-
fide, lump-sum or fixed-price construction contract, which unconditionally
vests the rights and obligations of the parties thereto, and which does not
make provision or allocation of future taxes, provided that such contract was
enforceable prior to January 1, 2020, and that delivery of the tangible
personal property used in performing such construction contract is made before
July 1, 2020.
         (c)   The purchase of taxable services, including utility services, if
the billing period includes charges for services furnished before and after
January 1, 2020, but the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall
apply on the first billing period, not including charges for services furnished
before January 1, 2020.
         (d)   Lease payments for tangible personal property and motor vehicles
that includes a period before and after January 1, 2020, but the local sales
and use tax imposed by this chapter shall apply on a prorated basis to lease
payment amounts attributable to that portion of the lease payment period on or
after January 1, 2020, and on the entire lease payment for all lease payment
periods thereafter.
   (E)   Tax clearance; issuance of licenses.
      (1)   (a)   The city may not issue or renew a license for the conduct of
a trade or business within the city if the Commissioner notified the Licensing
Division of the city that the applicant owes delinquent city taxes as provided
in this chapter, or penalties or interest due on such taxes.
         (b)   City taxes include sales and use taxes provided in this article.
Penalties and interest are penalties and interest due on taxes included in this
definition.
      (2)   Delinquent taxes does not include a tax liability if:
         (a)   An administrative or court action contesting the amount or
validity of the liability has been filed or served;
         (b)   The appeal period to contest the tax liability has not expired;
or
         (c)   The applicant has entered into a payment agreement and is
current with the payments.
      (3)   (a)   APPLICANT means an individual if the license is issued to or
in the name of an individual, or the corporation or partnership if the license
is issued to or in the name of a corporation or partnership.
         (b)   A copy of the notice of delinquent taxes given to the Licensing
Division of the city shall also be sent to the applicant taxpayer. In the case
of renewal of a license, if the applicant requests in writing, within 30 days
of receipt of the notice of hearing, then, a contested hearing shall be held
under the same procedures, as provided in M.S. Ch. 270A, for the state sales
and use tax imposed under M.S. Ch. 297A; provided further that, if a hearing
must be held on the state sales and use tax, the hearings must be combined.
   (F)   Deposit of revenues; costs of administration; termination of tax.
      (1)   All of the revenues, interest, and penalties derived from the local
sales and use tax imposed by this chapter collected by the Commissioner and
remitted to the city shall be deposited by the City Finance Director in the
City Treasury, and shall be credited to the fund established to pay the costs
of collecting the local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter, and to
finance the capital and administrative costs directly related to completing the
designated projects.
      (2)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter shall terminate
at the earlier of:
         (a)   December 31, 2040; or
         (b)   When the City Council determines that $30,000,000, plus an
amount sufficient to pay the costs related to issuing bonds and interest on the
bonds has been received from the local sales and use tax imposed by this
chapter to pay for all the capital and administrative costs directly related to
completing the designated projects.
      (3)   Any funds remaining after payment of all such costs and retirement
or redemption of the bonds shall be placed in the General Fund of the city.
      (4)   The local sales and use tax imposed by this chapter may terminate
at an earlier time if the City Council so determines by ordinance.
   (G)   Agreement with the Commissioner. The city may enter into an agreement
with the Commissioner regarding each party’s respective roles and
responsibilities related to the imposition, administration, collection,
enforcement, and termination of the local sales and use tax imposed by this
chapter. Any such agreement shall not abrogate, alter or otherwise conflict
with the state sales and use tax laws and rules, this section, or Session Laws
2019, First Special Session, Chapter 6, Article 6, Section 30.
(Ord. passed 7-9-2019)
§§ 2.56 THROUGH 2.57 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 2.58 REGULATIONS AS TO PARK LANDS.
   (A)   Purpose. All park lands owned or leased by or under the control of the
city shall be closed to public use between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. daily and
no person shall enter into or remain on such park lands between such hours.
However, individuals, organizations and groups to whom a permit to use any of
the city's parks or park facilities has been issued pursuant to regulations
promulgated by the Parks and Recreation Director may use such city parks or
facilities in accordance with the terms and conditions of such permit. The
Parks and Recreation Director is authorized to permit uses of certain
illuminated facilities in the park areas to remain open for recreational uses
beyond the normal closing time.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Director is hereby authorized to promulgate
rules and regulations covering the use and protection of the park lands owned
or leased by or under the control of the city. Rules and regulations of the
Director include provisions for the issuance of permits to individuals,
organizations and groups for the use of the city's parks and park facilities.
Such rules and regulations shall be consistent with and supplementary to all of
the provisions of this code, consistent with the provisions of any lease,
agreement or restrictions covering any of such park lands.
   (C)   Park hours of operation. As specified in § 2.58(A), no person shall be
allowed to enter or be in any of the city parks between 6:00 am and 11:00 pm
daily, except in those certain illuminated facilities in the parks pursuant to
lawfully authorized use after hours by the Parks and Recreations Director.
   (D)   Park rules; penalty. The following park rules shall be observed by all
users of the parks and shall be enforced by the public safety departments of
the city:
      (1)   Normal park hours are 6:00 a.m. - 11:00 p.m. daily.
      (2)   Dogs are allowed in parks, but must be on leash as per City Code §
10.11(B)(1) and are responsible for cleaning up any/all animal waste in
compliance with City Code §
10.13.
      (3)   Alcoholic beverages are prohibited, unless allowed by permit.
      (4)   Cars shall be parked only in designated areas.
      (5)   Ground fires are prohibited, unless allowed by permit.
      (6)   Refuse must be placed in trash containers.
      (7)   Driving a motor vehicle on park lands, other than on designated
parking areas shall be prohibited. This rule shall not apply to public safety
or park and recreation motor vehicles while in the performance of their duty.
   (E)   Enforcement. The Parks and Recreations Director and any city public
safety officers shall, in connection with their duties imposed by law,
diligently enforce the provisions of this section.
      (1)   The Parks and Recreations Director and any city public safety
officers shall have the authority to eject from the park or part thereof any
person acting in violation of this section. Any person so ejected shall not
enter the park or part thereof from which he or she was ejected for a period of
24 hours.
      (2)   Any city public safety officer shall have the authority to seize
and confiscate any property, thing or device in the park possessed or used, in
violation of this section or any state or federal statute, rule or regulation.
(Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§§ 2.59 THROUGH 2.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 2.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
CHAPTER 3: MUNICIPAL AND PUBLIC UTILITIES -
RULES AND REGULATIONS, RATES, CHARGES AND COLLECTIONS
Section
   
3.01   Definitions
   
3.02   Fixing rates and charges for municipal utilities
   
3.03   Contractual contents
   
3.04   Rules and regulations relating to municipal utilities
   
3.05    Management of public right-of-way
   3.06 through 3.19   Reserved for future expansion
   
3.20   Rules and regulations relating to refuse collection and disposal
   3.21 through 3.29   Reserved for future expansion
   
3.30   Rules and regulations relating to water service
   
3.31   Water conservation and water emergency stages
   3.32 through 3.39   Reserved for future expansion
   
3.40   Rules and regulations relating to sewerage service
   
3.41   Sewer service charge system
   
3.42   Storm water service charge system
   3.43 through 3.49   Reserved for future expansion
   
3.50   Rules and regulations relating to electric service
   3.51 through 3.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
3.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 3.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY, GRANTEE and FRANCHISEE. Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the city.
   CONSUMER and CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city-owned utility system, including, but not by way
of limitation, electric, steam heat, gas and refuse service.
   PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION. The Public Utilities Commission of the city and
certain specific references herein to the “city” shall include the city acting
through the Public Utilities Commission where the language or context clearly
indicates the reference.
   SERVICE. Providing a particular utility to a customer or consumer.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether the same be public city-owned
facilities or furnished by public utility companies.
§ 3.02 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, not fixed by the Public
Utilities Commission, shall be fixed, determined and amended by the Council and
adopted by resolution. The resolution, containing the effective date thereof,
shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the office of the City Clerk
and shall be uniformly enforced. For the purpose of fixing the rates and
charges, the Council may categorize and classify under the various types of
service; provided that, the categorization and classification shall be included
in the resolution authorized by this section.
§ 3.03 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this chapter relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
portions of the contract between the city and all consumers of municipal
utility services, and every such consumer shall be deemed to assent to the
same.
§ 3.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Application, connection and sale of service. Application for municipal
utility services shall be made upon forms supplied by the city, and strictly in
accordance therewith. No connection shall be made until consent has been
received from the city to make the same. All municipal utilities shall be sold
and delivered to consumers under the then applicable rate applied to the amount
of the utilities taken as metered or ascertained in connection with the rates.
   (B)   Discontinuance of service. All municipal utilities may be shut off or
discontinued whenever it is found that:
      (1)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working
on any connection with the municipal utility systems, has violated any
requirement of the city code relative thereto, or any connection therewith;
      (2)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other financial
obligation imposed on the present owner or occupant of the premises served, is
unpaid after due notice thereof; or
      (3)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery or charges therefor.
   (C)   Ownership of municipal utilities. Ownership of all municipal
utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions and appurtenances thereto, shall be
and remain in the city and no person shall own any part or portion thereof;
provided, however, that, private facilities and appurtenances constructed on
private property are not intended to be included in municipal ownership.
   (D)   Right of entry. By applying for, or receiving, a municipal utility
service, a customer irrevocably consents and agrees that any city employee
acting within the course and scope of his or her employment may enter into and
upon the private property of the customer, including dwellings and other
buildings, at all reasonable times under the circumstances, in or upon which
private property a municipal utility or connection therewith, is installed, for
the purpose of inspecting, repairing, reading meters, connecting or
disconnecting the municipal utility service.
   (E)   Meter test.
      (1)   Whenever a consumer shall request the city to test any utility
meter in use by him or her, a request shall be accompanied by a cash deposit
for each meter to be tested. If any meter is found to be inaccurate, the same
shall be replaced with an accurate meter and the deposit thereon refunded.
      (2)   If the meter shall be found to be accurate in its recordings or
calculations, it shall be reinstalled and the deposit shall be retained by the
city to defray the cost of the test.
   (F)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use or alter in any way any municipal utility system without first having
applied for and received written permission to do so from the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when
the same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment of a
bill, or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so
from the city.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
   (G)   Municipal utility services and charges a lien.
      (1)   Payment for all municipal utility (as that term is defined in §
3.01 of this chapter) service charges shall be the primary responsibility of
the owner of the premises served and shall be billed to him or her unless
otherwise contracted for and authorized in writing by the owner and the tenant,
as agent for the owner, and consented to by the city. The city may collect the
same in a civil action or, in the alternative and at the option of the city, as
otherwise provided in this division (G). In addition to all penalties and costs
attributable and chargeable to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil
action or any other fees or costs related to the collection of this bill, the
owner or user of the real estate being serviced by the Virginia Public
Utilities shall be liable for interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of
8% per annum.
(Amended 3-26-2002)
      (2)   Each such account is hereby made a lien upon the premises served.
All such accounts which are more than 45 days past due may, when authorized by
resolution of the Council, be certified by the City Clerk to the County Auditor
and the City Clerk, in so certifying, shall specify the amount thereof, the
description of the premises served and the name of the owner thereof. The
amount so certified shall be extended by the Auditor on the tax rolls against
the premises in the same manner as other taxes, and collected by the County
Treasurer, and paid to the city along with other taxes.
   (H)   Customer’s responsibility. It is the responsibility of the customer to
install, service, repair and maintain all lines, pipes and appurtenances from
the point of delivery and consumption up to and including:
      (1)   The corporation stop on water mains; and
      (2)   The “Y” on sewer mains.
§§ 3.05 MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Election to manage the public right-of-way. In accordance with M.S. §
237.163 subd. (b), the city hereby elects to manage rights-of way within its
jurisdiction.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as provided below, the definitions in Minn. Rules
7819.0100 are hereby adopted by reference and are incorporated into this
section as if set out in full.
      FACILITY. Any tangible asset associated with the provision of utility
service that is or will be located in the public right-of-way.
      PERSON. An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this
state, however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or
foreign, whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate or
political.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk which the
city maintains or otherwise has an interest, and other easements dedicated to
the public or to use for utility service. The PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include the airwaves with regard to non-wire telecommunications or broadcast
services.
      RESTORATION or RESTORE. The process by which an excavated public right-
of-way and surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to
the same condition that existed before excavation.
      UTILITY SERVICE. Includes all of the following, except any of these
utility services provided by the City of Virginia Public Works Department and/
or the Virginia Public Utilities:
         (a)   Services of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including
the transporting of voice or data information;
         (b)   Services provided by a cable communications system as defined in
M.S. Ch. 238;
         (c)   Telecommunications services, electric, and natural gas not
provided by a public utility;
         (d)   Services provided by a cooperative electric association
organized under M.S. Ch. 308A; and
         (e)   Connections to the municipal water, sewer, steam, cooling or
heating services not provided by a public utility.
   (C)   Permit requirement.
      (1)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided herein, no person may
obstruct or perform work in any right-of-way, or locate facilities in any
right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate permit from the
city. The permit shall specify the location of the affected right-of-way,
describe the work to be performed and facilities to be installed, and the
duration of the permit. To AFFECT THE RIGHT-OF-WAY means to disturb the
existing ground surface.
      (2)   Permit extensions. No person may obstruct or perform work in the
right-of-way beyond the date specified in a permit unless a new permit or
permit extension is granted.
      (3)   Responsible city official. The city Building Official and/or their
designee is the city official charged with the initial authority and
responsibility on behalf of the city, for:
         (a)   Granting or denying permits;
         (b)   Revoking permits;
         (c)   Determining and imposing fees under this section.
      (4)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000, subpart 3,
the city may impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in work conducted
in the right-of-way. The City Council shall establish the amount of the delay
penalty from time to time by resolution.
      (5)   Permit display. Permits issued under this section shall be
available for inspection at all times at the indicated work site.
      (6)   Exceptions. Work that is being done by, for, and directed by the
city and/or the Virginia Public Utilities Commission shall not be required to
obtain a permit. However, the entities must maintain all plans for construction
as per M.S. § 138.17.
   (D)   (1)   Permit applications. A permit application shall contain the
following:
      (2)   A completed application form, including all required plans or
drawings showing the location and area of the proposed project and the location
of all known existing and proposed facilities, and the following:
         (a)   The applicant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
         (b)   1.   A certificate of insurance naming the city as an additional
insured, verifying that the applicant is insured against claims for personal
injury, death, or property damages associated with work in the right-of-way,
and requiring 30 days’ notice to the city of cancellation or material
modification of the policy.
            2.   Before a permit shall be granted, the permittee shall deposit
with the City Clerk a policy or policies of an insurance company or companies
licensed to transact business in this state insuring the permittee against loss
from the liability imposed by law for damages on account of bodily injuries or
death, or from damage to property resulting from the work contemplate by the
permit, and agreeing to pay any judgment creditor to the extent of the amounts
specified in such policy, any final judgment rendered against the insured by
reason of such liability. The limit in any such insurance policy of such
liability of the insurer on account of the work contemplate in the issuance of
a permit shall not be less than $500,000 combined single limit, bodily injuries
and property damage. The policy may not be canceled by the insurance company
without first notifying the city clerk at least 30 days before the policy is
canceled.
         (c)   General liability. Before a permit shall be delivered to any
person, he or she shall deposit with the City Clerk a policy or policies of an
insurance company or companies duly licensed to transact business in this
state, insuring the person from any and all liability which he or she may incur
as a result of bodily injuries or property damage resulting to him or her. The
limit of such insurance policy shall not be less than $500,000 for bodily
injuries to or death of any one person and an aggregate of $1,000,000 on
account of any one accident resulting in injuries and/or death of more than one
person and a total of $50,000 liability for damages to property of others
arising out of any one accident.
         (d)   If the applicant is a corporation, a copy of the certificate
required to be filed under M.S. § 300.06 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
         (e)   A copy of the applicant's certificate of authority from the
Minnesota Public Utilities Commission, or other applicable state or federal
agency, to the extent such authority is required by law.
         (f)   Payment of a permit fee covering the city's administrative and
management costs and any associated costs such at the cost of any right-of-way
restoration that the city will complete.
   (E)   Permit approval, denial and conditions.
      (1)   Denial of permit. The city may deny a permit if a completed
application is not filed, if the requirements and conditions of this section
are not met, or if the city determines that the denial is necessary to protect
the health, safety, and welfare or to protect the right-of-way and its current
use.
      (2)   Review. Any permit application submitted shall be reviewed and
granted or denied by the City Engineer within five working days. If the City
Engineer fails to take action on the application within five working days, the
permit shall be deemed to be granted.
      (3)   Small wireless facility - deadline for action. The city shall
approve or deny a small wireless facility permit application within 60 days for
an existing facility and 90 days for a new facility after filing of such
application. The small wireless facility permit, and any associated building
permit application, shall be deemed approved if the city fails to approve or
deny the application within the review periods established in this section.
      (4)   Conditions. The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09 (Gopher Once Call Excavation Notice System) and
Minn. Rules, Ch. 7560.
   (F)   Permit fees. The City Council may establish an appropriate permit fee
schedule that will be available to the public. Unless otherwise agreed to in a
franchise, right-of-way permit fees are separate from and in addition to
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user.
   (G)   Right-of-way restoration by permittee. Unless otherwise provided in a
permit, the permittee shall promptly and fully restore the right-of-way within
five working days of completion of the placement of utilities, to a condition
equivalent to that prior to its work. The permittee shall complete restoration
according to Minn. Rules, 7819.1100, or such standards as may be specified by
the city. If the pavement settles, the permittee shall pay to the city all
costs associated with correcting the problem within 30 days of billing. Upon
the city's request, the permittee shall post a construction performance bond in
accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules, part 7819.3000. If the permittee
fails to restore the right-of-way as required, the city may exercise its rights
under the construction performance bond.
   (H)   Right-of-way restoration by the city. The city may choose to restore
the right-of-way with city forces or through contracting. If the city restores
the right-of-way, the permittee shall pay the estimated costs thereof as part
of the permit application fee and when restoration is completed by the city,
pay the actual cost.
   (I)   Permit approval, denial and conditions.
      (1)   Notice of completion. The permittee shall notify the city in
writing when the work under a permit is completed.
      (2)   Site inspection. City personnel and others authorized by law may
inspect the work-site at any time during or upon completion of the work. At any
time, the city may order immediate cessation of work that poses a threat to the
life, health, safety or well-being of the public.
   (J)   Work done without a permit.
      (1)   Non-emergencies. Except in an emergency, any person who obstructs
or performs work in a right-of-way without the necessary permit must
immediately obtain a permit and pay double the normal permit fee as a penalty.
      (2)   Emergency situations. Any person with facilities in the right-of-
way shall immediately notify the city of any emergency in relation to its
facilities. Such person may take whatever actions are necessary to respond to
the emergency. Such person shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees
associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements in this section
as soon as is feasible.
   (K)   Revocation of permit. The city may revoke any right-of-way permit,
without a fee refund, if there is a substantial breach of the terms and
conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or regulation, or any material
condition of the permit. Prior to revocation, the city shall make a written
demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. Within 24 hours of receipt,
the permittee shall provide a plan acceptable to the city to cure the violation
or breach. The permittee's failure to timely respond or implement the approved
plan shall be cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (L)   Indemnification and liability. By applying for and accepting a permit
under this section, a permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the city in
accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules, part 7819.1250.
   (M)   Abandoned facilities. Any person who has abandoned facilities in any
right-of-way shall promptly remove them if the city determines it is necessary
to accommodate other right-of-way repair, excavation or construction.
   (N)   Appeal. A right-of-way user that: (1) Has been denied a permit; (2)
Has had permit revoked; or (3) Believes that the fees imposed are invalid, may
have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed upon written request by
the City Council at its next regular meeting. A decision affirming the denial,
revocation or fee imposition will be writing and supported by written findings.
   (O)   Reservation of regulatory and police powers. A permittee's rights are
subject to the regulatory and police powers of the city to adopt and enforce
general ordinances necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
(Ord. passed 7-26-2022)
§§ 3.06 THROUGH 3.19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 3.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO REFUSE COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Definition. REFUSE includes all drained organic material resulting
from the preparation of food and spoiled or decayed food from any source,
bottles, cans, glassware, paper or paper products, crockery, ashes, rags and
discarded clothing, tree and lawn clippings and solid market and industrial
wastes.
   (B)   Storage and transporting refuse.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse, except as herein
provided.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse over any street,
for hire, except by special permit from the Council, or acting within the
course and scope of a written contract with the city, or his or her employment
with the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to transport refuse on any street
unless it is earned in a vehicle equipped with a leak-proof body or container
and completely covered with a heavy canvas or top to prevent loss of contents.
   (C)   Containers. All refuse shall be stored in clean, rust-resistant,
water-tight, non-absorbent and washable closed containers, approved for the
purpose by the city; provided, however, that, tree clippings may be stored in
tied bundles no longer than four feet and lawn clippings and paper may be
stored in containers protected from wind and other elements.
   (D)   Collection and disposal of refuse. The city shall provide for
collection and disposal of all refuse in a sanitary manner to ensure the
health, safety and general welfare of its residents, under such terms and
conditions as the city may, from time to time, deem appropriate. Containers
shall be placed at the designated collection point on days specified by the
city. Collection points will generally be the alley adjacent to the property
from which refuse is collected; but where there is no alley, the curb line in
front of the property.
   (E)   Property of the city. All materials at public disposal sites are the
property of the city. It is unlawful for any person to separate, collect, carry
off or dispose of the materials, except by direction of the city.
   (F)   Disposal site. Privately hauled non-refuse disposal from households,
and refuse and non-refuse disposal from commercial establishments, may be
deposited at the disposal site upon payment of charges therefor.
   (G)   Prohibition. Any person, business or corporation that is not a
customer of the city refuse system shall not dump or dispose of refuse of any
kind within the city limits. Violators shall be subject to sanctions designated
under this section.
(Amended 4-13-1993)
   (H)   Refuse bags. All residential refuse shall be placed in city designated
containers. All commercial refuse customers shall use either bags or containers
in the disposal of their refuse in city designated containers.
(Amended 4-13-1993)
   (I)   Violation.
      (1)   Any violation of division (H) above, shall result in a fine of $25
for the first violation; $50 for the second violation; $75 for the third
violation and any violation beyond a third violation shall be charged as a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to the sanctions designated under this
section.
(Approved 12-10-1996)
      (2)   Any violation of division (H) above where a fine is imposed and a
default occurs, the City Council, by resolution, may certify the amount of the
fine and a 10% administration fee to the County Auditor as of September 1 of
each year to be collected with the property tax due. The city may also charge a
6% interest on all unpaid fines.
(Approved 3-27-2001; Ord. passed 5-8-2018)
§§ 3.21 THROUGH 3.29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 3.30 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Deficiency of water and shutting off water. The city is not liable for
any deficiency or failure in the supply of water to customers whether
occasioned by shutting the water-off for the purpose of making repairs or
connections or by any other cause whatever. In case of fire, or alarm of fire,
water may be shut off to ensure a supply for firefighting. In making repairs or
construction of new works, water may be shut off at any time and kept off so
long as may be necessary.
   (B)   Repair of leaks. It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to
maintain the service pipe from the curb stop into the house or other building.
In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or owner to repair any leak
occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours after oral or written
notice has been given the owner or occupant of the premises, the water may be
shut off and will not be turned on until a reconnection charge has been paid
and the water service has been repaired. When the waste of water is great or
when damage is likely to result from the leak, the water will be turned off if
the repair is not proceeded with immediately.
   (C)   Abandoned services penalties. All service installations connected to
the water system that have been abandoned or, for any reason, have become
useless for further service shall be disconnected at the main. The owner of the
premises, served by this service, shall pay the cost of the excavation. The
city shall perform the actual disconnection and all pipe and appurtenances
removed from the street right-of- way shall become the property of the city.
When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is desired to
increase the old water service, a new permit shall be taken out and the regular
tapping charge shall be made as if this were a new service. It is unlawful for
any person to cause or allow any service pipe to be hammered or squeezed
together at the ends to stop the flow of water, or to save expense in
improperly removing the pipe from the main. Also, the improper disposition
thereof shall be corrected by the city and the cost incurred shall be borne by
the person causing or allowing the work to be performed.
   (D)   Service pipes.
      (1)   Every service pipe must be laid in a manner as to prevent rupture
by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than seven feet below
the surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage by
freezing. Frozen service pipes between the curb stop and the building shall be
the responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must extend from the curb stops
to the inside of the building; or if not taken into a building then to the
hydrant or other fixtures which they are intended to supply. A valve, the same
size as the service pipe, shall be placed close to the inside wall of the
building, ahead of the meter and well protected from freezing.
      (2)   Joints on copper tubing shall be flared or compression-fitted and
kept to a minimum. Not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70
feet in length. All joints shall be left uncovered until inspected. Minimum
size connection with the water mains shall be three-fourths inch in diameter.
   (E)   Private water supplies. No water pipe of the city water system shall
be connected with any pump, well, pipe, tank or any device that is connected
with any other source of water supply and when such are found, the city shall
notify the owner or occupant to disconnect the same and, if not immediately
done, the city water shall be turned off. Before any new connections to the
city system are permitted, the city shall ascertain that no cross-connections
will exist when the new connection is made. When a building is connected to
“city water”, the private water supply may be used only for such purposes as
the city may allow.
   (F)   Prohibited uses or restricted hours. Whenever the city shall determine
that a shortage of water threatens the city, it may entirely prohibit water use
or limit the times and hours during which water may be used from the city water
system for lawn and garden sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air
conditioning and other uses, or either or any of them. It is unlawful for any
water consumer to cause or permit water to be used in violation of the
determination after public announcement thereof has been made through the news
media specifically indicating the restrictions thereof.
   (G)   Private fire hose connections. Owners of structures with self-
contained fire protection systems may apply for and obtain permission to
connect the street mains with hydrants, large pipes and hose couplings, for use
in case of fire only, at their own installation expense and at such rates as
the Council may adopt, by resolution, as herein provided.
   (H)   Opening hydrants. It is unlawful for any person, other than members of
the Fire Department or other person duly authorized by the city, in pursuance
of lawful purpose, to open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the
same or in any manner interfere therewith. It is also unlawful for any person
so authorized to deliver or suffer to be delivered to any other person any
hydrant key or wrench, except for the purposes strictly pertaining to their
lawful use.
   (I)   Unmetered service. Unmetered service may be provided for construction,
flooding skating rinks and any other purpose. The service shall be at a duly
adopted rate. Where it is difficult or impossible to accurately measure the
amount of water taken, unmetered service may be provided and the unmetered rate
applied; provided, however, that, by acceptance thereof the consumer agrees to
have the city estimate the water used. In so estimating, the city shall
consider the use to which the water is put and the length of time of unmetered
service.
   (J)   Water meters. All water meters exceeding one inch in size shall be
purchased and maintained by the property owner. All repairs of water meters not
resulting from normal usage shall be the responsibility of the property owner,
as shall any maintenance and repair of meters which are not of the remote
reading type. Any meter 20 years old, or older, or in need of replacement shall
be replaced with a remote type which shall be purchased by the property owner
and shall be the maintenance responsibility of the city. All water meters shall
be installed and controlled by the city and the cost of installation shall be
the responsibility of the property owner. Any remote type meter in need of
replacement by reason of normal usage shall be furnished by the city, installed
at the expense of the property owner, and the city shall thereafter own the
meter.
   (K)   Code requirement. All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be
installed and performed strictly in accordance with the state’s Plumbing Code.
Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance therewith, or failure to
have or permit required inspections shall, upon discovery by the city, be an
additional ground for termination of water service to any consumer.
§ 3.31 WATER CONSERVATION AND WATER EMERGENCY STAGES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning. When not inconsistent with the context, words used in the present
tense include the future, words in the plural number included the singular
number and words in the singular number include the plural number. The word
“shall” is always mandatory and not merely directory.
      CITY. The City of Virginia.
      CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Virginia.
      COMMISSION. The Board of Public Utilities providing water to the
residents residing with the city limits of Virginia.
      MAYOR. The Mayor of the City of Virginia.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company
or organization of any kind.
      WATER. Water supplied by the water works of the city, either directly or
indirectly by the Commission through another entity.
   (B)   Effective upon declaration of emergency by the Mayor. Whenever, upon
determination by the Mayor of the city in consultation with such officials as
he or she deems appropriate, the Mayor of the city determines that a water
service emergency exists in the city and that the emergency requires that
certain uses of water not essential to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the city be restricted and the Mayor issues and publishes a
declaration of the findings in a newspaper of general circulation within the
city for a period of three consecutive days, the provisions of this section
shall become immediately effective and applicable to all persons living within
the city and its police jurisdictions.
   (C)   Prohibited uses.
      (1)   General. The use and withdrawal of water by any person shall be
restricted to the following uses upon the declaration of the Mayor of a water
emergency as set forth in division (B) above.
      (2)   Water restrictions.
         (a)   Stage 1 - Water Alert. The Water Alert Stage will be implemented
when water shortages are predicted as reported by the local water authority.
Public notices and press releases will be provided to notify citizens and
businesses of the city of the water shortage situation. The public will be
given the notice that the city’s water conservation and water emergency stages
have been initiated and that the following voluntary conservation measures,
which apply to both residential and commercial properties, be enacted.
            1.   The watering of established lawns and landscaping should be
limited to the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on each allowable watering
day. Addresses ending in an even number should water established lawns and
landscaping on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Addresses ending in odd number should
water on Wednesdays and Sundays.
            2.   New lawns and landscaping are exempt from the day of the week
restrictions for the first 30 days of installation. However, the watering shall
be limited to the minimum necessary. Watering should be conducted between the
hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. Documentation to verify the date of planting
shall be made available upon request. Hand watering, using hoses with shut off
valves or nozzles, is not restricted, but should be limited to the minimum
amount necessary.
            3.   Watering for the purpose of applying insecticides, fungicides
and herbicides where the watering is required by the manufacturer or by
federal, state or local law shall not be restricted by days of the week.
However, the watering shall be limited to the minimum necessary. Documentation
to verify the date of application shall be made available upon request.
            4.   The washing of personal motor vehicles or equipment shall be
permitted by means of a “bucket” and “sponge” and a hose with a shut-off
nozzle. Commercial car washes may continue normal operation.
            5.   Hosing down of porches, sidewalks, driveways and other hard
surfaces, except of health and safety reasons should be suspended unless
performed by a commercial pressure washer.
            6.   Golf courses should water the first nine holes Monday and
Thursdays, and the bottom nine holes should be watered on Tuesdays and Fridays.
            7.   Newly constructed or existing public and private swimming
pools, which include outdoor hot tubs, spas and Jacuzzis, may be filled once
upon completion. One-time draining and subsequent re-filling of swimming pools
is allowed only for repairs if conditions threaten the integrity of the pool
and/or its supporting infrastructure.
            8.   Commercial nurseries and gardens are exempt from day of the
week watering, but shall restrict water use to the minimum.
         (b)   Stage 2 - Water Warning. The Water Warning Stage shall be
implemented when “severe” weather shortage conditions are reported by the local
water authority and the voluntary conservation measures described in Stage 1:
Water Alert have not sufficiently reduced system demands. At this stage, the
Stage 2 Water Warning will be implemented with a declaration by the Mayor.
            1.   The watering of established lawns and landscaping is limited
to the hours of 4:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. on the allowable watering day.
Addresses ending in an even number should water established lawns and
landscaping on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Addresses ending in odd number should
water on Wednesdays and Sundays.
            2.   New lawns and landscaping are exempt from the day of the week
restrictions for the first 30 days of installation. Watering shall be limited
to the minimum necessary and can be conducted between the hours of 4:00 p.m.
and 10:00 a.m. After the first 30 days, watering is restricted to two days per
week on the even/odd address days and times listed in division (C)(2)(b)1.
above.
            3.   The washing of personal motor vehicles or equipment shall be
suspended.
            4.   The use of fire hydrants for any purpose, except firefighting
or flushing sewers for health protection shall be suspended.
            5.   The watering of any portion of golf courses, except for tees
and greens, shall be suspended. The watering of tees and greens is allowed on
Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m.
Hand misting is permitted on the other days of the week.
            6.   Commercial nurseries and gardens shall restrict water use to
the minimum amount necessary to maintain plants.
            7.   Newly constructed or existing public and private swimming
pools, which include outdoor hot tubs, spas and Jacuzzis, may be filled once
upon completion. One-time draining and subsequent re-filling of swimming pools
is allowed only for repairs if conditions threaten the integrity of the pool
and/or its supporting infrastructure.
            8.   Watering from private lakes, streams, wells or ponds must post
visible signs if deviating from the schedule set forth above.
         (c)   Stage 3 - Water Emergency.
            1.   The Water Emergency Stage will be implemented when “extreme”
drought conditions exist. The Mayor shall have the authority to declare a water
emergency when public health, safety and sanitary standards are at risk. This
Water Emergency Stage shall ban all nonessential outdoor water usage.
            2.   The use and withdrawal of water by any person for the
following purposes shall be prohibited unless expressly permitted by ordinance.
               a.   Outdoor watering. The watering or irrigation of lawns and
landscaping shall only be allowed on weekends. Addresses ending in an even
number shall water on Saturdays between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. and addresses
ending in an odd number shall water on Sundays between 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m.
(Commercial nurseries shall restrict watering to the minimum amount necessary
to maintain plants.)
               b.   Washing mobile equipment. The washing of automobiles,
trucks, trailers, trailer houses, railroad cards or any other type of mobile
equipment is prohibited.
               c.   Cleaning outdoor surfaces. The washing of sidewalks,
driveways, gas stations aprons, porches and other outdoor surfaces is
prohibited.
               d.   Cleaning buildings, equipment and machinery. The washing of
the outside of dwellings and commercial buildings, and the cleaning of
equipment and machinery is prohibited.
               e.   Ornamental fountains. The operation of any ornamental
fountains or other structures making similar use of water is prohibited.
               f.   Golf courses and athletic fields. Except for the hand
watering of greens on golf courses, the watering of golf courses and athletic
fields is prohibited.
               g.   Commercial car washes. All car washing shall be suspended.
            3.   The Mayor or Public Utilities Manager shall have the authority
to permit reasonable use of water to maintain public health, safety and
sanitary standards. However, this reasonable use shall not include any of the
restrictions in this section.
         (d)   Stage 4 - Water System Failure.
            1.   The city strongly endorses and recommends that the various
water systems serving the City of Gilbert, Eveleth and Mountain Iron work out
reciprocal emergency water use agreements and install adequate connections to
allow the transfer of water from one system to another in times of drought or
other disaster causing shortages.
            2.   This stage could result from drought intensity or other
unrelated causes for the potable water supply system failure. In this stage, a
significant or total failure of a water distribution system will have
disastrous effect on the city. At this juncture, notification of the federal
and state agencies for assistance would be required. Emergency Operations
Center (EOC) would be opened for the duration of the event. Priority will be
placed on public safety and public health.
   (D)   Water usage rates during declared water conservation and water
emergency stages. During a declared Virginia Water Conservation and Water
Emergency Stage, as set forth in division (B) above, the current water
conservation water usage rates as set by the Department of Public Utilities
shall apply. The provisions of this section shall become immediately effective
upon the declaration by the Mayor.
   (E)   Enforcement. Upon implementation of the provisions of this section as
provided in this section, any violation of division (C) above, shall result in
a fine of: $25 for the first violation; $100 for the second violation; $500 for
the third violation and any violation beyond a third violation will result in
the water utility disconnecting service at the street until the resident agrees
to comply with the restrictions. A separate $100 fee will be assessed to
reconnect service.
(Added 7-4-2010)
§§ 3.32 THROUGH 3.39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 3.40 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO SEWERAGE SERVICE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act also referred to as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
      ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
      BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal. Also referred to as a HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE
CONNECTION.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit if the treatment facilities are designed to treat such pollutants to a
degree which complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
      CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
      EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
      FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
humans and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of
pollution.
      FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
      GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a
“compatible pollutant”, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
      INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental or non-residential user of a publicly
owned treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B,
D, E and I.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from
residential or domestic strength wastes.
      INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
      INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater
disposal system processes or operations which causes or significantly
contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS
permit. The term includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in
accordance with published regulations providing guidelines under § 405 of the
Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345 or any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid
Waste Disposal Act (being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.), the Clean Air Act (being
42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control Act (being 15 U.S.C.
§§ 2601 et seq.) or more stringent state criteria applicable to the method of
disposal or use employed by the city.
      MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by the treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of the treatment facilities, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) and (b).
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to §§ 402 and 405
of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
      NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added, is heat.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced
by residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 270 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 240 mg/l.
      pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
in terms of grams per liter of solution.
      PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior
to the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment
works.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be earned freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
      SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
         (a)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
         (b)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to serve as a sanitary sewer
and a storm sewer.
         (c)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under
pressure.
         (d)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
         (e)   PRIVATE SEWER. As owned and maintained by the city.
         (f)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by the
city.
         (g)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
         (h)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater
treatment facility which has a discharge flow:
         (a)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
         (b)   Has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
         (c)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant
to § 307(a) of the Act; or
         (d)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
      STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, subd. 8, as it may be amended from time to time.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total
suspended matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in
water, wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism, will
cause adverse effects as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of
the Act.
      UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
      USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage.
From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
      WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
      WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
   (B)   Control by the City Engineer. The City Engineer shall have control and
general supervision of all public sewers and service connections in the city,
and shall be responsible for administering the provisions of this section to
the end that a proper and efficient public sewer is maintained.
   (C)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement, garbage
or objectionable waste.
      (2)   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this section and the city’s NPDES/SDS
permit.
      (3)   Except as provided hereinafter, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
      (4)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner’s
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this section, within 365 days of the date the
public sewer is operational, provided said public sewer is within 150 feet of
the structure generating the wastewater. All future buildings constructed on
property adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect
to the public sewer. If sewer connections are not made pursuant to this
division (C), an official 60-day notice shall be served instructing the
affected property owner to make the connection.
      (5)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under division (C)(4) above, the city shall
undertake to have said connection made and shall assess the cost thereof
against the benefitted property. The assessment, when levied, shall bear
interest at the rate determined by the Council and shall be certified to the
Auditor of the county and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the
same manner as assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city shall
be in addition to any remedial or enforcement provisions of this section.
   (D)   Private wastewater disposal.
      (1)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of
division (C)(4) above, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this division (D).
      (2)   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater
disposal system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the
city. The application for such permit shall be made on a form furnished by the
city, which the applicant shall supplement by any plans, specifications and
other information as are deemed necessary to the city.
      (3)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city.
The city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction,
and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work
is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice.
      (4)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules 7080.1050 et
seq., entitled “Individual Sewage Treatment System Standards”. No septic tank
or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any natural outlet.
      (5)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property
serviced by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be
made to the public sewer within 365 days in compliance with this section, and
within 60 days any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private wastewater
disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge. The bottom shall be broken to
permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
      (6)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
city.
      (7)   No statement contained in this division (D) shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or
the Department of Health of the state.
   (E)   Building sewers and connections.
      (1)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be
prohibited unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as
determined by the city.
      (2)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
      (3)   Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or authorized
agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the location, name
of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how occupied. No
person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits of the
building or property for which the service connection permit has been given.
      (4)   (a)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
            1.   For residential and commercial service; and
            2.   For service to establishments producing industrial wastes.
         (b)   In either case, the application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or any other information considered pertinent in the
judgment of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit authorization,
must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
      (5)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s)
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (6)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building though an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any such
connection aforementioned.
      (7)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings
only when they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities
Superintendent, to meet all requirements of this section.
      (8)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of a
building sewer and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the state’s Building and Plumbing Codes or other applicable
rules and regulations of the city. In the absence of code provisions or in the
amplification thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate
specifications of the ASTM and WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9 shall apply.
      (9)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (10)   No water from any roof, surface, ground water sump pump, footing
tile, swimming pool or other natural precipitation shall be discharged into the
sanitary sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and structures which
require, because of infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces and the
like, a sump pump discharge system shall have a permanently installed discharge
line which shall not at any time discharge water into the sanitary sewer
system, except as provided herein. A permanent installation shall be one which
provided for year round discharge capability to either the outside of the
dwelling, building or structure, or is connected to the city storm sewer or
discharges through the curb and gutter to the street. It shall consist of a
rigid discharge line, without valving or quick connections for altering the
path of discharge. The City Engineer shall have the power and duty of hearing
and deciding requests for waivers from the applicability of the provisions of
this division (E)(10) where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship
because of circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration
or cause a safety problem. Application for waivers pursuant to this division
(E)(10) shall be addressed in writing to the city’s Engineering Department. The
applications shall at a minimum identify the property for which the waiver is
being applied, the name of the property owner/applicant and describe in detail
what characteristics of the subject property create an undue hardship. Within a
reasonable time, the City Engineer shall make a decision on the matter and
serve a copy of the order upon the applicant by mail. Upon approval of an
application for a waiver, the property owner shall be allowed to temporarily
pump directly into the sanitary sewer system between the dates of November 1
and April 1. The holder of a waiver shall request an authorized city employee
to certify that prior to April 15 of each subsequent year their discharge water
connection has been removed from the sanitary sewer. Failure to provide the
certification will place the waiver holder in violation of this section.
(Amended 6-28-1994; amended 2-9-1999)
      (11)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the state’s Building and Plumbing Codes or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city, or the procedures set forth in
appropriate specifications of the ASTM and the WPCF Manual of Practice No. 9.
All connections shall be made gas-tight and water-tight, and verified by proper
testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior to
installation.
      (12)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Utilities Superintendent.
      (13)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the
course of the work, shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
      (14)   It is unlawful for any person to make a service connection with
any public sewer, or to engage in the work or business of plumbing, or the
installation of water or sewer pipes without a license therefor from the state.
The licensee shall give bond to the city in the penal sum of $2,000 conditioned
upon faithful and lawful performance of all work in the city. Proof of filing
the bond with the state shall relieve the licensee of this requirement.
   (F)   Use of public services.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any unpolluted water such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff,
surface drainage or non-contact cooling water to any sanitary sewer. It is also
unlawful for any person to direct storm water, ground water, roof runoff or
surface water drainage to a neighboring or adjoining property.
(Amended 9-12-1994)
      (2)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged
to such sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewers:
         (a)   Any liquids, solids or gases which, by reason of their nature or
quantity, are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha,
benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides,
chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides;
         (b)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with
particles greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues,
paunch manure, bones, hair, hides or flashings, entrails, whole blood,
feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass,
straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper,
wood, plastic, asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel
or lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
         (c)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5
or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system; and
         (d)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or
disrupt any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, or create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater
disposal system. A toxic pollutant shall include, but not be limited to, any
pollutant identified pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act.
      (4)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes
shall be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or
quantities which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works
treatment process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the
receiving stream and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not
otherwise endanger lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
City Engineer, upon consultation with the Council, may set limitations lower
than limitations established in the regulations below if, in their opinion,
such more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above objectives. In
forming their opinion as to the acceptability of wastes, the City Engineer and
Council will give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject
waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, the city’s
NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the City Engineer are as follows:
         (a)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C),
or causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent
at the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C),
or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein;
         (b)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
         (c)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute
a “slug”, as defined herein;
         (d)   Any garbage not properly shredded. Garbage grinders may be
connected to sanitary sewers from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants,
hospitals, catering establishments or similar places where garbage originates
from the preparation of food on the premises or when served by caterers;
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
         (f)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
         (g)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or
ground water;
         (h)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate) in
such quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal
system;
         (i)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the city in compliance with
applicable state or federal regulations;
         (j)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances:
 mg/l arsenic
 mg/l cadmium
 mg/l copper
 mg/l cyanide
 mg/l lead
 mg/l mercury
 mg/l nickel
 mg/l silver
 mg/l total chromium
 mg/l zinc
 mg/l phenolic compounds, which cannot be removed by city’s wastewater
  treatment system
 mg/l other
 
         (k)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the
wastewater disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or
ordinance of any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body; and
         (l)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of a
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of this section.
      (5)   (a)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in division (F)(4) above and/or which, in the
judgment of the City Engineer, upon consultation with the Council, may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes or
equipment; receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation and ground water; or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
            1.   Reject the wastes;
            2.   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge
to the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act and all addendums
thereof;
            3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
and/or
            4.   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
         (b)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
      (6)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in divisions (F)
(3) and (F)(4) above, or contained in the national categorical pretreatment
standards or any state requirements.
      (7)   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or
required for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in
satisfactory and effective operation at the expense of the owner(s).
      (8)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper
handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as
specified in division (F)(4)(b) above, any flammable wastes as specified in
division (F)(3)(a) above, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except that, the
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. All interceptors shall be of the type to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection. In the maintaining of these
interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for the proper removal and
disposal of the captured materials by appropriate means, and shall maintain a
record of dates and means of disposal which are subject to review by the
Utilities Superintendent. Any removal and hauling of the collecting materials,
not performed by the owner’s personnel, must be performed by a currently
licensed waste disposal firm.
      (9)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure,
or control manhole, with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of wastes.
The structure shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed
in accordance with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed
by the owner at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be
safe and accessible at all times.
      (10)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this section and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at the times and in a manner as prescribed by the city. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by
the city. At such times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to
take measurements and samples for analysis by an independent laboratory.
      (11)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
waters and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health
Association. Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to
be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the City Engineer.
      (12)   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by
a sanitary sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of
prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this section. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval prior to construction of
the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall
not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this section. Users shall notify the City
Engineer immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of substances
of wastewater in violation of this section to enable countermeasures to be
taken by the City Engineer to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment
works. The notification will not relieve any user of any liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or treatment
process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof under any
state and federal law. Employers shall ensure that all employees who may cause
or discover such a discharge, are advised of the emergency notification
procedure.
      (13)   It is unlawful for any person, having charge of any building or
other premises which drains into the public sewer, to permit any substance or
matter winch may form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public
sewer. Within ten days after receipt of written notice from the city, the owner
shall install a suitable and sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one
already exists, shall clean out, repair or alter the same and perform such
other work as the City Engineer may deem necessary. Upon the owner’s refusal or
neglect to install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair or alter
the same after the period of ten days, the City Engineer may cause the work to
be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
      (14)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed,
broken or out of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit
for the purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause such work to be
done as the City Engineer may direct. Each day after ten days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
division (F)(14), and the City Engineer may then cause the work to be done, and
recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of
the city.
      (15)   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing
facility shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times, a
catch basin or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil,
dirt or any mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
      (16)   In addition, to any penalties that may be imposed for violation of
any provision of this section, the city may assess against any person the cost
of repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result
of the discharge of prohibited wastes by the person, and may collect an
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
      (17)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; providing that, national categorical pretreatment standards
and the city’s NPDES and/or state disposal system permit limitations are not
violated.
   (G)   Other unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person to maliciously,
willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with
any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is part of the wastewater
facilities.
   (H)   Powers and authority of inspectors.
      (1)   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of
the city, bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to
enter all properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement,
sampling and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this section. Every person owning improved
real estate that discharges into the city’s sanitary sewer system shall allow
an employee of the city or his or her designated representative to inspect the
buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge
into the sanitary sewer system. In lieu of having the city inspect his or her
property, any person may furnish a certificate from a licensed plumber
certifying that their property is in compliance with this section. Any person
refusing to allow his or her property to be inspected or refusing to furnish a
plumber’s certificate within 14 days of the date city employees or their
designated representatives are denied admittance to the property, shall
immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter provided for. Any
property found to violate this section shall make the necessary changes to
comply with this section and furnish proof of the changes to the city within
six months of initial inspection. Each sump pump connection identified will be
reinspected on a regular basis. All new homes will be required to have their
sump pump system inspected within 90 days of occupancy and a certificate of
compliance completed.
      (2)   The City Engineer or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential, however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
      (3)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the City
Engineer or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety
rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the company
shall be held harmless for injury or death or the city employees and the city
shall indemnify the company against loss or damage to its property by city
employees and against liability claims and demands for personal injury or
property damage asserted against the company and growing out of the gauging and
sampling operation, except as such may be caused by negligence or failure of
the company to maintain safe conditions as required in this section.
      (4)   The City Engineer or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of, but not limited to, inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Amended 6-28-1994; amended 12-6-1994)
   (I)   Violations. Any person found to be violating any provision of this
section shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations. It is unlawful for any person to
continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for above, and on
conviction thereof, shall be fined in the amount not exceeding $200 for each
violation. Each day in which any such violation occurs shall be deemed a
separate offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the city by reason of the violation.
   (J)   Surcharge. A surcharge of $25 per month will be imposed and added to
every sewer billing to property owners who are not in compliance with this
section within one year of initial inspection. The surcharge shall be added
every month and levied monthly on properties not complying with this section.
All properties found during re-inspection to have violated this section will be
subject to the $25 per monthly penalty for all months between the two most
recent inspections.
(Adopted 6-28-1994; amended 12-6-1994)
§ 3.41 SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
      COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
      COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as distinct from industrial wastewater.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
      EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than
domestic waste, as herein defined, and not otherwise classified as an
incompatible waste.
      GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies or instrumentalities
of federal, state or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
      INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
      INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
         (a)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemental
under one of the following divisions:
            1.   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
            2.   Division B, Mining;
            3.   Division D, Manufacturing;
            4.   Division E, Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
            5.   Division I, Services.
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, “domestic waste” shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
 
BOD5             Less than 270 mg/l
Suspended solids Less than 240 mg/l
 
         (c)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment works
which discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic
pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any
municipal systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment
process, or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public
nuisance or creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters
receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business including, but not limited to, all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
      INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial
or residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., non-profit organizations).
      NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily
produced by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 270
mg/l and suspended solids concentrations not greater than 240 mg/l.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the
dependable and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the
design or useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment works, and at the
level of performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION
AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and
maintenance, including replacement.
      PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
      REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
      REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
      RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi- detached housing, apartments and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
      SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
      SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges
is deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement
costs; and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
      SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and
Budget, 1972.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total
suspended matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in
water, wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to § 307(a) of the Act,
being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a), which upon exposure to or assimilation into any
organism will cause adverse effects.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
      USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments winch are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
      WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as SEWAGE.
From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
   (B)   Establishment of a sewer service charge system.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby
all revenues collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will
be used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance
and replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
      (2)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation
maintenance and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users
proportionate contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
      (3)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital
costs as determined by the Council.
      (4)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater
treatment facility shall be determined and fixed in a “sewer service charge
system” developed according to the provisions of this section. The sewer
service charge system developed with the assistance of John Baker Engineering,
Inc. 1986, shall be adopted by resolution upon enactment of this section, shall
be published in the local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication.
Subsequent changes in sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by
Council resolution and shall be published in the local newspaper.
      (5)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a
separate fund known as “The Sewer Service Fund”. Income from revenues collected
will be expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment
replacement for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
      (6)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be
administered in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Determination of sewer service charges.
      (1)   Identification.
         (a)   Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified
as belonging to one of the following user classes:
            1.   Residential;
            2.   Commercial;
            3.   Industrial;
            4.   Institutional; and
            5.   Governmental.
         (b)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the City Engineer. Allocation of users to user classes shall be based on the
substantive intent of the definitions of these classes contained herein.
      (2)   Rates for concentrations. The user shall pay operation, maintenance
and replacement costs in proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of
wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment plant, with the minimum rate for
loadings of BOD and of TSS being the rate established for concentrations of 270
mg/l BOD and 240 TSS (i.e., normal domestic strength wastewater).
      (3)   Unit costs for treatment of flow, BOD and TSS.
         (a)   Unit costs for treatment of flow, BOD and TSS shall be
determined and fixed annually in the sewer service charge system according to
the following procedure:
            1.   Determine the annual OM&R budget;
            2.   Allocate total annual OM&R costs to flow, BOD and TSS
proportionately; according to the costs of collection, and of the specific
treatment processes required to affect or reduce flow, BOD and TSS; and
            3.   Divide the OM&R costs attributable to flow, BOD and TSS
respectively, by the total annual billable volume and loadings of flow, BOD and
TSS, to arrive at unit costs.
         (b)   For purposes of determining, the following definitions of unit
costs shall apply:
         UF   =   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal.
         UBOD   =   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
         UTSS   =   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
         (c)   Unit costs for 1986 are provided in Table 6 of the sewer service
charge system developed with the assistance of John Baker Engineering, Inc.
Subsequent calculations of unit costs shall be according to the substantive
intent of this SSCS.
         (d)   The calculation of unit cost for treatment of normal domestic
strength wastewater shall be as follows:
UN = COMR
TBWV
         Where:
         UN   =   Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement to treat
domestic strength wastewater in S/K gal.
         COMR   =   Total annual OM&R costs less costs associated with the
treatment of concentrations greater than normal domestic strength.
         TBWV   =   Total annual billable wastewater volume in k gallons.
      (4)   User charges for normal domestic strength users.
         (a)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
            1.   General. The billable amount of flow will be calculated from
the volume of metered water usage. For residential users, the per month
billable flow shall be equal to monthly metered water usage as determined by
the first quarter of the calendar year. For non-residential users discharging
NDSW, billable flow shall be equal to monthly water usage measured throughout
the year.
            2.   Determination of loadings from metered water usage. The
billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated from the volume of metered
water usage, as determined above, where the billable quantities will be those
attributable to a wastewater concentration of 270 mg/l BOD and 240 mg/l TSS
(i.e., “normal domestic strength wastewater”).
         (b)   Calculating user charges.
UC (NDS) = (UNxF)
         Where:
         UC (NDS)   =   User charge for treatment of normal domestic strength
wastewater.
         UN   =   Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement to treat
normal domestic strength wastewater.
         F    =   Billable flow in Kgal.
      (5)   User charges for users contributing wastes greater than normal
domestic strength.
         (a)   Calculating billable flows and loadings. The billable amount of
flow will be calculated from the volume of metered water usage, or at the
discretion of the city, from the measurement of effluent flow at user’s point
of discharge. Measurements shall be according to a regular program prescribed
by the city. The billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated by the
measurement of these wastes according to a program prescribed by the city in
keeping with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater.
         (b)   Calculating user charges.
UC(GNDS) = (UF x F) + (UBOD) + (UTSS x QTSS)
                  Where:
         UC(GNDS)   =   User charge for treatment of wastewater that is greater
than normal domestic strength.
         UF   =   Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal.
         F   =   Billable flow in Kgal.
         UBOD   =   Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
         QBOD   =   Quantity of BOD in lbs.
         UTSS   =   Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
         QTSS   =   Quantity of TSS in lbs.
         (6)   Meter installation. The city may, at its discretion, require
nonresidential users to install wastewater flow meters or such additional water
meters as may be necessary to determine wastewater volume. The city may require
residential connections to install water meters for the purpose of determining
wastewater volume. When so required, the meters shall be of a type approved by
the city equipped with remote registering recorders, and located at an
accessible site on the owner’s property.
      (7)   Recovery of local construction costs. Local construction costs for
the wastewater treatment facility will be recovered from users according to
their contribution of wastewater flows and loadings into the treatment facility
as follows:
Dc = Cd
    F
                  Where:
         DC   =   Annual debt service charge.
         Cd   =   Annual debt service cost.
         F   =   Billable flow in Kgal.
      (8)   Sewer service charge.
SSC = UC + DC
         Where:
         SSC   =   Annual sewer service charge.
         UC   =   Annual user charge.
         DC   =   Annual debt service charge.
   (D)   Sewer Service Fund.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes the Sewer Service Fund as an income
fund to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and
all other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city
also establishes the following accounts as income and expenditure accounts
within the Sewer Service Fund:
         (a)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
         (b)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
         (c)   Debt Retirement Account.
      (2)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the
treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received
by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to the Operation and Maintenance
Account, the Equipment Replacement Account and the Debt Retirement Account in
accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of this
section.
      (3)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
insure adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the
Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in
the Equipment Replacement Account.
      (4)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
   (E)   Administration. The sewer service charge system and Sewer Service Fund
shall be administrated according to the following provisions.
      (1)   The City Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the Council
with a report of the costs annually. The Council shall annually determine
whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated for the effective
operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the treatment works, and
whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council
will also determine whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to
each user in accordance with division (B) above and § 204(b)(2)(A) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1284(b)(2)(A), as
amended. The city shall, thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the sewer service charge system then in use to
ensure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
      (2)   In accordance with federal and state requirements each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
      (3)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
      (4)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a quarterly
basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due
30 days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 30 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed as 5% of the original bill
and shall be increased the same 5% for every quarter the bill is outstanding.
      (5)   The owner of the premises, shall be liable to pay for the service
to the premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefor to the
city.
      (6)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the
wastes, at no expense to the city.
   (F)   Service charges a lien.
      (1)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to this
section is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all charges
which are on January 1 of each year past due and delinquent, shall be certified
to the County Auditor as taxes or assessments on the real estate. Nothing in
this section shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or interfering
with the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against any premises
affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
      (2)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable
to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 8% per annum.
   (G)   System to take precedence. The sewer service charge system shall take
precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements or contracts which are
inconsistent with the requirements of § 204(b)(1)(A) of the Act, being 33
U.S.C. § 1284(b)(10(A) and 40 C.F.R. § 35.2140 of the Environmental Protection
Agency’s grant regulations.
§ 3.42 STORM WATER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Statutory authority. M.S. § 444.075 authorizes cities to impose just
and equitable charges for the use and availability of storm sewer systems for
the collection and disposal.
   (B)   System established.
      (1)   The city hereby establishes a storm sewer service charge system
whereby all revenues collected from users of the storm sewer system will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement, and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the storm sewer system.
      (2)   The system consists of all storm sewer conduits, manholes and catch
basins, ditches, and ponds within the public right-of-way, and storm sewer
conduits, manholes and catch basins, ditches and ponds in public purpose
easements as of October 22, 2019, and any additional storm sewer facilities and
appurtenances required by the city in the future.
   (C)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   Land use rate calculation. Rates and charges to be imposed for the
use and availability of the facilities shall be determined by the use of a
residential equivalent factor (REF), which is defined as the ratio of the
average volume of surface water runoff from one acre of land subjected to a
particular use, to the average volume of surface water runoff from one acre of
land subject to typical single family uses within the city during a standard
rainfall event. All developed single-family parcels shall be considered to have
an acreage of 1/4 acre per lot. Calculations of storm water utility rates for
various land uses shall be based upon their REF. The REF values for various
land uses are as follows:
 
Land use category         REF
Single-family residential 0.50
Multi-family residential  0.75
Commercial                0.95
Industrial                1.00
Public and semi-public    0.60
 
      (2)   Land use categories include, but are not limited to:
         (a)   Single-family residential. Residential areas within the city
used or intended for use as single- and two-family homes located within a
single residential lot.
         (b)   Multi-family residential. A parcel designed or used for three or
more dwelling units which is typically on a lot larger than a typical single-
family unit. This land includes apartments, town homes, and mobile home parks.
         (c)   Commercial. This land use consists of land designed or used for
commercial, retail, and office space as identified within the city’s land use
plan.
         (d)   Industrial. These areas are designed or used for industrial uses
as outlined in the city’s land use plan.
         (e)   Public and semi-public. These areas are designed or used for
churches and schools as outlined in the city’s land use plan.
         (f)   Excluded lands. The following land uses are exempt from the
storm water utility fees established:
            1.   Public street right-of-way;
            2.   Wetlands and public waters as defined by state law;
            3.   Undeveloped and/or vacant parcels that are generally pervious;
            4.   Park lands, natural areas, and recreational fields;
            5.   Cemeteries;
            6.   City-owned parcels.
      (3)   Other land uses. Land uses not listed in the class charge rate
calculation table shall be classified by the City Administrator, or designee,
on assigning them to the class most nearly like the listed uses from the
standpoint of probable hydraulic response. Appeal from the City Administrators
decision may be made in writing to the City Council within 14 days of notice of
the decision.
      (4)   Information. The owner, tenant, occupant, or person in charge of
the premises must supply the city with such information as the city may
reasonably request related to the use, development, and area of the premises.
If the information requested is not provided, the charge for the premises will
be estimated and billed in accordance with the estimate, which will be based on
information available to the city.
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   Storm sewer utility fee. The city shall establish a monthly fee for
each parcel type. The fee will be included with the monthly utility billing to
each parcel. All rates and charges will be reviewed annually and adjusted as
deemed necessary by the City Council. Fees shall be charged to all parcels not
listed as excluded lands.
      (2)   Penalties and remedies for delinquencies. All storm sewer utility
charges shall be due and payable on the date specified by the city for the
respective amount and shall be subject to delinquency thereafter.
         (a)   All delinquent accounts shall be subject to the late fees
applied to delinquent city water and sewer billings and as approved by
resolution of the City Council. The city shall attempt to collect delinquent
accounts promptly.
         (b)   Pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, the City Administrator shall prepare
an assessment roll each year providing for assessment of any delinquent
accounts against the respective properties served. The assessment roll shall be
delivered to the Council for adoption on or before the regular City Council
meeting in November of each year for certification to the County Auditor for
collection along with property taxes. The city shall have the right to bring a
civil action or take other legal remedies to collect unpaid delinquent
accounts.
   (E)   Revenues.
      (1)   Revenues collected for storm sewer service shall be deposited in a
separate fund known as the “The Storm Sewer Service Fund”. Income from revenues
collected will be expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and
equipment replacement for maintaining the facilities. These expenditures may
also include planning, engineering, monitoring, capital expenditures, personnel
expenses, equipment and operation of the utility and any other use permitted by
M.S. § 444.075.
      (2)   Revenues may also be used to finance improvements, major repairs
and betterments of the facilities. Storm sewer service charges and the Storm
Sewer Service Fund will be administered in accordance with the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§§ 3.43 THROUGH 3.49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 3.50 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO ELECTRIC SERVICE.
   (A)   Code requirement. All wiring, connections and appurtenances shall be
installed and performed strictly in accordance with the National Electrical
Code. Failure to install or maintain the same in accordance therewith, or
failure to have or permit required inspections shall, upon discovery by the
city, be an additional ground for termination of electrical service to any
consumer.
   (B)   Services. New or changed service installations shall be made at the
expense of the consumer, placed underground where designated by the city and
the meter location shall also be designated by the city. Overhead service
installations may be permitted by the city:
      (1)   Temporarily during new construction;
      (2)   Temporarily during an emergency to prevent danger to persons or
property;
      (3)   For a period of not more than seven months when soil conditions
make excavation for underground service impractical; or
      (4)   Where to require underground service, the consumer has shown that
the requirement is unduly burdensome.
   (C)   Electrical installations. All electrical installations shall comply
with the following, where applicable.
      (1)   Motors of 20 HP or more must have line compensators on same;
provided, however, that, the city may, at its option, make an exception if the
total connected motor load required is smaller than the consumer connected
load, and the motor starting current is less than the current corresponding to
the consumer’s total connected load.
      (2)   Any establishment having a total motor load of 125 HP or more is
required to have 440 volts for its motor load.
      (3)   All motor installations of less than five HP shall be supplied with
240-volt single phase energy, except:
         (a)   Motors of one-half HP or smaller may be 120-volt; or
         (b)   Three phase motors of three HP or more may be served from
existing secondary power circuits where only service wires and meters are
required.
      (4)   The city shall make an installation charge for extraordinary
expenses required by a consumer.
   (D)   Replacing or converting to underground.
      (1)   Converting to underground. The city may, at its option and at its
expense, convert any present service where no change is otherwise required by
the consumer, from overhead to underground. Where this is done, the city shall
only cover and refill the trench and other ditching maintenance or repair, and
all subsequent changing and repairing of the service shall be the obligation of
the consumer.
      (2)   Replacing. Nothing herein shall prevent the city from replacing an
overhead service with the same type.
      (3)   Meters and placement service. Placement of service and meters shall
be determined by the city.
§§ 3.51 THROUGH 3.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 3.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
CHAPTER 4: CONSTRUCTION PERMITS AND REGULATION
Section
   
4.01   Building Code adopted
   
4.02   Permit fees
   
4.03   Building permits required
   
4.04   Collection of building permit fees
   
4.05   Permits and special requirements for moving buildings
   
4.06   Certificate of survey
   
4.07   Installation, repair and maintenance of television and radio receiving
antennas
   
4.08   Required lock box (Knox Box)
   
4.09   Preservation of survey monuments and permanent markers
   4.10 through 4.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
4.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 4.01 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of Labor
and Industry, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B, including all amendments, rules and
regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by the
Minnesota Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the Building Codes and
Standards Unit, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the
optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this chapter. The Minnesota
State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out
herein.
§ 4.02 PERMIT FEES.
Editor’s note:
   Permit fees are set forth in City Code
Ch. 11, entitled “Land Use Regulations (Zoning)”.
§ 4.03 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
Editor’s note:
   The requirements for building permits are set forth in City Code
Ch. 11 entitled “Land Use Regulations (Zoning)”.
§ 4.04 COLLECTION OF BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the act by the city of granting an
application for a building permit, and the subsequent issuance of the permit,
are deemed improvements to real estate and the act by the owner of real estate
of employing or entering into an agreement with a contractor or other person
for construction requiring a building permit shall be deemed an appointment of
the contractor or other person as the agent of the owner for the purpose of
applying for the permit and incurring fees therefor, and the owner and the
agent shall be jointly and severally liable for payment thereof.
   (B)   When the fee for a building permit has been determined, a statement
shall be prepared by the city and mailed to the owner. If the fee remains
unpaid for a period of more than 30 days after mailing, the city may collect
the same in a civil action or, in the alternative and at the option of the
city, as otherwise provided in this section.
   (C)   Each such account is hereby made a lien upon the premises improved.
All accounts which are more than 45 days past due may, when authorized by
resolution of the Commission, be certified by the City Clerk to the County
Auditor, and the City Clerk, in so certifying, shall specify the amount
thereof, the description of the premises improved and the name of the owner
thereof. The amount so certified shall be extended by the Auditor on the tax
rolls against the premises in the same manner as other taxes, and collected by
the County Treasurer and paid to the city along with other taxes.
§ 4.05 PERMITS AND SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR MOVING BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMBINED MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on both a street and
a highway.
      HIGHWAY. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is a state
trunk highway, county state-aid highway or county road.
      HIGHWAY MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a highway for which
a fee is charged which does not include route approval, but does include
regulation of activities which do not involve the use of the highway; which
activities include, but are not limited to, repairs or alterations to a
municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
      MOVING PERMIT. A document allowing the use of a street or highway for the
purpose of moving a building.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is not a state
trunk highway, county state-aid highway or county road.
      STREET MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a street for which a
fee is charged which does include route approval, together with use of the
street and activities including, but not limited to, repairs or alterations to
a municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   The application for a moving permit shall state the approximate
loaded height of the structure or building proposed to be moved, the places
from which and to which it is to be moved, the route to be followed, the dates
and times of moving and parking, the name and address of the mover and the
municipal utility and public property repairs or alterations that will be
required by reason of the movement.
      (2)   In the case of a street moving permit or combined moving permit,
the application shall also state the size and weight of the structure or
building proposed to be moved and the street alterations or repairs that will
be required by reason of the movement.
      (3)   All applications shall be referred to the Public Utilities
Commission. All applications for street and combined moving permits shall also
be referred to the Police Department and no permits shall be issued until route
approval has been obtained from the Public Utilities Commission and the Police
Department.
   (C)   Permit and fee.
      (1)   Permits shall be issued only for moving buildings by building
movers licensed by the state.
      (2)   Fees to be charged shall be separate for each of the following:
         (a)   A street and combined moving permit fee to cover use of streets
and route approval; and
         (b)   For all moving permits a fee equal to the anticipated amount
required to compensate the city for any municipal utility and public property
repairs or alterations occasioned by the movement.
      (3)   All permit fees shall be paid in advance of issuance of a permit.
      (4)   Additional requirements and exceptions are set forth in
Ch. 11 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Building permit and code compliance. Before any building is moved from
one location to another within the city, or from a point of origin without the
city to a destination within the city, regardless of the route of movement, it
shall be inspected and a building permit shall have been issued for at least
the work necessary to bring it into full compliance with the state’s Building
Code.
   (E)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any street
without a moving permit from the city.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any highway
without a highway moving permit from the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful to move any building (including a manufactured home)
if the point of origin or destination (or both) is within the city, and
regardless of the route of movement, without having paid in full all real and
personal property taxes, special assessments and municipal utility charges due
thereon, and filing written proof of the payment with the city.
§ 4.06 CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY.
   (A)   (1)   No building permit application, for the construction of a new
building or extending or increasing the size of an existing building, shall be
accepted unless it is accompanied by a certificate of survey signed by a
registered land surveyor.
      (2)   The survey shall show all lot lines and existing (if any) and
building lines.
   (B)   The following projects do not necessarily require a survey:
      (1)   Sheds, sunscreens, greenhouses, decks or freestanding structures
144 square feet or less or attached to main building structure not extending
beyond existing walls or structure or extending to interior of lot; and
      (2)   Fences and screens may be constructed within existing building
lines or along property boundaries with the consent of the adjoining property
owner or neighbor. For boundary fences and screens, the adjoining property
owners’ written consent will be required prior to issuance of a building
permit.
(Amended 8-23-1994)
§ 4.07 INSTALLATION, REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF TELEVISION AND RADIO RECEIVING
ANTENNAS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANTENNA. The outdoor portion of the receiving equipment for receiving
television or radio waves from space.
      HEIGHT. The overall vertical length of the antenna system above ground
or, if the system be located on a building, then above that part of the level
of the building upon which the system rests.
      MAST. The portion of the outside antenna system to which the antenna is
attached, and the support or extension required to elevate the antenna to a
height deemed necessary for adequate operation.
      PRIMARY POWER LINE. Any electrical line carrying 250 volts or more.
      SECONDARY POWER LINE. Any electrical line carrying 250 volts or less.
   (B)   Regulations for installation of antenna.
      (1)   Except on radio and television antennas less than ten feet in
height, all construction hereafter placed on the roof of a building or
structure within the city shall be non-combustible and non-corrosive
construction. All equipment installed on roofs shall be mounted on its own
platform or plate covering one or more rafters of the roof and shall be
securely anchored with guy wires. (See below for tower installation.)
      (2)   Poles or masts over ten feet must be guyed with four or more wires
to one mast position. Masts 20 to 30 feet in height must be guyed to a minimum
of two positions, the uppermost guy wires to be within two feet of the top,
except where impractical because of the structure of a unit supporting the
antenna, in which case the uppermost guy wire must be attached to the unit
supporting the antenna. Roof-mounted masts over 30 feet high must not be
erected without first securing permission from the Building Inspector having
jurisdiction. The angle of the guys supporting the masts and towers must not be
less than 30 degrees from the vertical mast. Wire used as guys shall in no case
be less than 620-strand cable or equivalent and of the rust-proof type for
masts less than 20 feet in height. And for masts exceeding 20 feet in height
minimum size of wire used as guys shall be 618-strand cable or its equivalent
and shall be of the rust-proof type. Rawl plugs shall not be used for guy wires
or for mounting brackets. Guy wires shall not connect to any pole in the power
or communication system of the city.
      (3)   Towers may be erected without the use of guy wires providing the
towers are of a type approved by the Electrical Inspector and Fire Chief. The
towers may be either roof-mounted or mounted on the ground independent of a
building. In the event towers are erected from the ground and attached to a
building and extend more than ten feet above the portion of the building to
which they are attached, the towers must be guyed to the building by not less
than three guy wires, one of which guy wire may be of an outrigger type. If a
tower-mounted antenna extends more than 50 feet above the ground, whether roof-
mounted or mounted on the ground, permission must first be secured from the
Electrical Inspector before installation.
      (4)   Metal structures supporting antennas shall be permanently and
effectively grounded as outlined in Article 820 of the National Electrical
Code. Grounds for either the lead-in or the metal supporting pole or structure
shall be made to existing underground water distributing system if available;
provided that, no ground connection shall be made to an outside water spigot if
the spigot is disconnected for any portion of a year. For installation beyond
reach of the distribution systems, a regular driven ground rod of not less than
six feet in length of an approved type may be used. The ground conductors shall
not be smaller than No. 8 AWG. (Effectively grounded shall be interpreted as
providing protection for mast, receiver and rotating mechanism if such is used,
and ground straps or clamps shall be of the approved type.)
      (5)   Under no conditions will a ground connection be allowed to be
connected to a sewer stack vent or gas lines or any line connected to a line
connected to any inflammable material or to a gas or fuel oil line or to any
other line conveying any combustible substances or to a line which is attached
to a line or pipe conveying any combustible substances.
      (6)   Ground line from mast should not follow the contour of a building
and shall not contact, nor be connected in any way to a down spout.
      (7)   Lightning arrestor for protection of receiver shall not be mounted
on mast, but shall be mounted approximately as near the earth as the receiver
and the arrestor shall be of the approved type.
      (8)   Antennas shall not be attached to chimneys as heavy stress often
occurs on antenna supports due to the wind and ice loading to which the
television antenna is subjected. Damage to chimney can occur below roof line
creating a serious fire hazard.
      (9)   Serious accidents have occurred where improperly supported masts
have fallen over primary and secondary power lines. It shall be the
responsibility of the individual installing the masts or towers to take this
factor into consideration so as to provide proper installation so as to assure
maximum protection to life and property in case the mast or tower shall fall or
topple.
      (10)   Guy wires crossing over or under secondary power lines shall have
a four-foot minimum clearance from same as to avoid contact under all
conditions and under no conditions shall guy wires be placed over primary power
lines regardless of clearance, nor masts be erected to the heights that, in
event of collapse or failure, the mast would fall over primary power lines
located in streets or alleys of the city.
      (11)   Lead-in conductors attached to buildings shall be so installed
that they cannot swing within two feet of conductors carrying 250 volts or less
or within ten feet of conductors carrying more than 250 volts. The clearance
between lead-in conductors and any conductor forming part of a lightning rod
system shall be no less than six feet. Lead-in shall be supported at intervals
of not more than 12 feet apart.
      (12)   Television antenna installers must constantly be aware that
antenna wires and large dipole structures may seriously interfere with
firefighters while raising ladders or handling hose lines. This may be
important in closely built areas where antennas and wires may overhang or
bridge space between buildings. Perhaps more serious is that high antennas on
roofs or improperly supported towers may, under fire exposure, be so weakened
that they may collapse and injure firefighters or occupants.
      (13)   It is recommended that master antennas be installed on apartment
buildings and a “tee-tap” or other distribution system used to supply the lead-
in conductors from the main cable.
   (C)   Electrical Inspector; duties, rights and authority.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector and his or her
authorized assistants to inspect all television and radio receiving antenna to
ascertain if the work has been done in a workmanlike manner and to investigate
all complaints from the general public pertaining to the antenna installations
and interference caused thereby.
      (2)   The Electrical Inspector and his or her assistants are hereby
empowered to inspect or reinspect any wiring, equipment or apparatus conducting
or using electric current for radio and television service in the city and, if
conductors, equipment or apparatus are found to be unsafe to life or property,
or are not in conformity with the provisions of this section, the Electrical
Inspector shall notify the person owning or operating the hazardous wiring or
equipment to correct the condition within a 48-hour period or within the time
the Electrical Inspector specifies. Failure to correct violations within the
specified time shall constitute a violation of this section.
      (3)   A reasonable schedule of fees shall be established by the Council,
by resolution, covering all inspections made by the Electrical Inspector
pursuant to the provisions of this section, which schedule may be changed from
time to time as the Council shall deem necessary or expedient. The fees shall
be paid by the person making the installation prior to installation. No
television antenna shall be installed or repaired until a permit to do so shall
have been issued by proper authority.
   (D)   Application to existing antennas. Every television or radio receiving
antenna erected prior to the effective date of this section may be maintained
and operated in its present location, unless the antenna is so constructed,
located and maintained as to be unsafe and dangerous as determined by the
Electrical Inspector as provided in divisions (C)(1) and (C)(2) above; provided
that, all repairs to antenna shall be made in accord with the provisions of
this section.
(Ord. 86, effective 8-20-1955)
§ 4.08 REQUIRED LOCK BOX (KNOX BOX).
   (A)   The following structures shall be equipped with a key lock box at or
near the main entrance or other location required by the Fire Chief. The lock
box shall be installed to the front of the building near the entrance at a
height of a minimum of 48 inches and not to exceed 80 inches:
      (1)   Commercial or industrial structures protected by an automatic alarm
system or automatic suppression system or the structures that are secured in a
manner that restricts access during an emergency;
      (2)   Multi-family residential structures that have restricted access
through locked doors and have a common corridor for access to the living units;
and
      (3)   Governmental structures and nursing care facilities.
   (B)   (1)   All newly constructed structures subject to this section shall
have key lock box (Knox Box) installed and operational prior to the issuance of
occupancy permit.
      (2)   All structures in existence on the effective date of this section
and subject to this section shall have one year from the effective date of this
section to have a key lock box installed and operational.
      (3)   Any existing structure that is purchased or overtaken during the
first year of this section must install a key lock box within 30 days of the
purchase or overtaking.
      (4)   Any structure in divisions (A)(1), (A)(2) or (A)(3) above that will
undergo additions, upgrades or repairs shall also require a key lock box
installed at the time of the upgrades/repairs.
   (C)   The Fire Chief shall designate the type of key lock box system to be
implemented within the city and shall have the authority to require all
structures to use the designated system.
   (D)   The owner or operator of a structure required to have a key lock box
shall, at all times, keep a key in the lock box that will allow for access to
the structure.
   (E)   The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations
for the use of the lock box system.
   (F)   Any person who owns or operates a structure subject to this section
shall be subject to the penalties set forth herein; provided that, the minimum
administration fine for a conviction for a violation of this section shall be
$500.
(Adopted 2-23-2016)
§ 4.09 PRESERVATION OF SURVEY MONUMENTS AND PERMANENT MARKERS.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The Public Land Survey System (PLSS) is the foundation of property
boundary descriptions in Minnesota. An essential part of the PLSS is physical
monument at each corner within the PLSS network. The importance of survey
monuments and property markers as a permanent reference is a vital resource in
determining the location of every property description. Accurate monuments
ensure taxpayers are assessed accurately, minimize property disputes, clarify
mineral rights boundaries, and reduce unnecessary litigation for local
governments and private citizens.
      (2)   In Minnesota, many of the PLSS corners have been destroyed or
buried and need work to replace them. Due to potential for destruction of these
important landmarks in known and unknown locations, the City Council deems it
necessary to create an ordinance to establish the procedures and
responsibilities for preserving and protecting survey monuments and permanent
markers within the City of Virginia, MN.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply to this section:
      CITY OFFICIAL. The designated authority appointed by the City Council,
such as the City Engineer of record or another designated employee in the
Community Development, Permitting and Planning Department (Community
Development Department) as responsible for survey monument and property corner
or marker protection by the city, and for enforcing this policy. The City
Council designee may delegate some or all the duties and powers under this
policy to other city staff or contractors, as appropriate.
      DESTRUCTION. The physical destruction, disturbance or covering of a
monument such that the survey point is no longer there, visible or readily
accessible.
      MONUMENT. Sometimes referred to as “survey monument,” is a permanent
marker set by a land surveyor to mark or reference a point on a property or
land line which is permanently marked or tagged with the certificate number of
the land surveyor setting it. MONUMENTS include a land boundary survey corner
defined as a point on the boundary of any lot, tract, or parcel of real
property; a controlling point for a plat; or a point which is permanently
marked as above-described which has been designated as permanent by state law
or city ordinance or is a General Land Office or a Bureau of Land Management
survey corner.
      PERMANENT MARKER or PROPERTY MARKER. A physical object that indicates the
location of a property line, boundary, or angle point. A PROPERTY MARKER is
usually established by a licensed land surveyor. The definition of PERMANENT
MARKER does not include survey markers made out of wooden stakes but does
include, but is not limited to, markers made or constructed of rebar, concrete
or metal plate so long as such marker otherwise meets the requirements of the
definition of monument used herein. Property corners or markers are not the
same as survey monuments, which are permanent reference markers for the PLSS.
      PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE CONSTRUCTION WORK. Includes any person or
responsible party who holds the permit or responsibility for the construction
work during which the monument was disturbed.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Includes natural persons, corporations and other
juridical entities having independent power to act with regard to property or
persons.
   (C)   Procedures; requirements for notice.
      (1)   Any person or entity who plans to conduct any activity with a
planned impact to any survey monument or a property marker within the city
shall comply with the following procedures:
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of those performing construction
work or other activities to provide for the documentation required by this
section to notify the city through its Community Development, Permitting and
Planning Department (Community Development Department), in writing, of the
planned activity that may affect, impact, or disturb the survey monument or the
property marker.
         (b)   All restorations or replacements of any survey monument or
property marker shall be completed by or under the direction of a licensed land
surveyor.
         (c)   A person who intentionally or unintentionally disturbs or
destroys a survey monument or permanent marker is liable for the cost of
locating, referencing, protecting, restoring, or replacing a survey monument or
a property corner or marker, unless otherwise specified in writing by the city
official referenced in this section.
         (d)   Prior to any disturbance to any known or identified monument or
marker, the written notice referenced in this division (C)(1) shall include:
            1.   Contact information for the property owner, the responsible
party, and the person
responsible for the construction work;
            2.   The survey monument or the property marker location and
reference, as provided by or under the direction of a licensed land surveyor;
            3.   Detail on how the survey monument or the property marker will
be protected from damage or displacement during the activity and/or how the
monument or marker will be removed and safely stored. This plan must include
the estimated length of time the monument or marker will be impacted, moved, or
modified; and
            4.   Detail regarding how the monument or marker will be restored
or replaced to its original location and condition after the activity. Whenever
practical a suitable monument shall be reset in the surface of the new
construction. In all other cases, permanent witness monuments shall be set to
perpetuate the location of preexisting monuments. Additionally, sufficient
controlling monuments shall be retained or replaced in their original positions
to enable property corners, elevations and tract boundaries to be reestablished
without requiring surveys originating from monuments other than the ones
disturbed by the current construction or activity.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of those performing any activity in
which any unintentional damage or destruction of survey monuments or property
markers is found to notify the city, in writing, of the damage.
         (a)   The notice of unintentional disturbance or destruction shall be
made to the city within five days of the discovery. This notice referenced
shall include:
            1.   The location and description of the survey monument or the
property corner or marker;
            2.   The date and time of the incident;
            3.   The name and contact information of the person or entity
responsible for the activity;
            4.   The cause and extent of the damage or disturbance; and
            5.   The proposed plan and schedule for restoring or replacing the
survey monument or the property corner or marker.
         (b)   The city shall respond to all notifications of unintentional
damage or disturbance with approval or modification of the plan for restoration
or replacement of the survey monument or the property marker within ten
business days from the date the initial notice was received. Parties will be
advised if a permit is required, within the same timeframe.
   (D)   Required submittals. Once restoration or replacement work has been
completed for any survey monument or property marker, the person responsible
for the construction work shall file a record of the restoration or replacement
with the designated city official; with copies to the St. Louis County Surveyor
if a survey monument was disturbed or impacted; the city Community Development
office, St. Louis County Recorder; and St. Louis County Surveyor if property
corners were disturbed or impacted.
   (E)   Enforcement. As specified in §
4.99, every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when the
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a code adopted by reference by
this chapter and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. passed 5-14-2024)
§§ 4.10 THROUGH 4.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 4.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or
performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when the
failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a code adopted by reference by
this chapter and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a
misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
CHAPTER 5: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LICENSING AND REGULATION
Section
   
5.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
5.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
5.03   Definitions
   
5.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
5.05   Consumption in public places
   5.06 through 5.13   Reserved for future expansion
   
5.14   Minors as defined in section 5.01 - Unlawful Acts
   5.15 through 5.19   Reserved for future expansion
   
5.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
5.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
5.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
5.23   License fees; pro rata
   
5.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
5.25   Application for license
   
5.26   Description of premises
   
5.27   Applications for renewal
   
5.28   Transfer of license
   
5.29   Investigation
   
5.30   Hearing and issuance
   
5.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
5.32   Conditions of license
   
5.33   Hours and days of sale
   
5.34   Minors on premises
   
5.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
5.36   Suspension and revocation
   5.37 through 5.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
5.99   Penalty
§ 5.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this chapter is adopted.
§ 5.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 5.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2 percent malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a “restaurant” as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 5.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
5.99(B).
§ 5.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in a
public park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any
public place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
§§ 5.06 THROUGH 5.13 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 5.14  MINORS AS DEFINED IN SECTION 5.01. - UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any:
      (1)   Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises.
      (2)   Minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of the
minor’s parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of such parent or
guardian.
   (B)   Purchasing. It is unlawful for any person:
      (1)   To sell, barter, furnish, or give alcoholic beverages to a minor
unless such person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only for
consumption in the household of such parent or guardian.
      (2)   Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   To induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic beverage.
   (C)   Possession. It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic
beverage with the intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
the minor’s parent or guardian. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor
at a place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie
evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of his
parent or guardian.
   (D)   Entering licensed premises. It is unlawful for any minor, as defined
in this chapter, to enter licensed premises for the purpose of purchasing or
consuming any alcoholic beverage. It is not unlawful for any person who has
attained the age of 18 years to enter licensed premises for the following
purposes:
      (1)   To perform work for the establishment, including the serving of
alcoholic beverages, unless otherwise prohibited by statute;
      (2)   To consume meals; and
      (3)   To attend social functions that are held in a portion of the
establishment where liquor is not sold. It is unlawful for a licensee to permit
a person under the age of 18 years to enter licensed premises unless attending
a social event at which alcoholic beverages are not sereved, or in the company
of a parent or guardian.
   (E)   Misrepresentation of age. It is unlawful for a minor to misrepresent
his age for the purpose of purchasing an alcoholic beverage.
   (F)   Proof of age. Proof of age for purchasing and consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by a valid driver’s license, a Minnesota
identification card, or, in case of a foreign national, by a valid passport.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-22-2020) 
§§ 5.15 THROUGH 5.19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 5.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 5.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 5.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
5.20. The Council of a city which has a municipal liquor store is authorized to
issue only those licenses.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental
sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to
a club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
5.23 shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S. §
340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under §
5.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 2(b),
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under the
provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time
to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
5.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
5.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. § 340A.504,
subd. 3(b), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: theaters, restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25
guests at one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may
be amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
5.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time and to
theaters that meet the criteria in M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 1(b). The fee for an
on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
5.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
5.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. § 340A.414,
subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time and as set by City Council
resolution. Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each
year.
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only.
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an
auction. A license issued under this subdivision authorizes the sale of only
vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale
by any wholesaler in Minnesota. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine
for not more than three consecutive days provided not more than 600 cases of
wine are sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including
license fee, imposed by §
5.23.
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued
to brewers who operate a restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet
the criteria established at M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as they may
be amended from time to time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not
exceed 3,500 barrels per year. If a brew pub licensed under this section
possesses a license for off-sale under division (O) below, the brew pub’s total
combined retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (O)   Brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor license, with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety, may be issued to a brewer that is a licensee
under division (N) above or that produces fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt
liquor in a year and otherwise meets the criteria established as M.S. §
340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 7(b), as they may be amended from time to time. Off-
sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at
exclusive liquor stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off- sale must be removed
from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at exclusive
liquor stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be packaged in the
manner required by M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels per year. If a brewer
licensed under this section possesses a license under division (N) above, the
brewer’s total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels
per year, provided that off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels.
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety, to brewers who
manufacture fewer than 3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale
of intoxicating liquor in connection with a social event within the
municipality sponsored by the brewer.
   (Q)   Brewer taproom license, may be issued to the holder of a brewer’s
license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), (I) or (j), as they may amended from
time to time. A brewer’s taproom license authorizes on©sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. A brewer may have only one taproom
license and may not have an ownership interest in a brewer licensed under M.S.
§ 340A.301, subd. 6(d), as it may be amended from time to time. A brewer
taproom license may not be issued to a brewer that brews more than 250,000
barrels of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than 250,000
gallons of wine annually. Within ten days of issuing a brewer taproom license
the City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of the licensee’s
name, address, trade name and the effective date and expiration date of the
license. The City Clerk will inform the Commissioner of Public Safety of a
license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or revocation during the license
period.
   (R)   A cocktail room license may be issued to the holder of a
microdistillery license under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(c), as it may be amended
from time to time. A microdistillery cocktail room license authorizes on-sale
of distilled liquor produced by the distiller for consumption on the premises
of or adjacent to one distillery location owned by the distiller. The holder of
a microdistillery cocktail room license may also hold a license to operate a
restaurant at the distillery. No more than one cocktail room license may be
issued to any distiller and a microdistillery cocktail room license may not be
issued to any person having an ownership interest in a distillery licensed
under M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6 (a), as it may be amended from time to time. No
single entity may hold both a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license
and a microdistillery cocktail room and taproom license may not be co-located.
Within ten days of the issuance of a microdistillery cocktail room license, the
city shall inform the commissioner of public safety of the licensee’s name and
address and trade name, and the effective date and expiration date of the
license. The city shall also inform the commissioner of public safety of a
microdistillery cocktail room license transfer, cancellation, suspension, or
revocation during the license period.
§ 5.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time the fee for any of the
liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the
cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the enforcement
of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased
without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all
affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction in
their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408, as it may
be amended from time to time, if at the time of initial application or renewal
they:
      (1)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale of alcohol, the rules for identification checks, and the
responsibilities of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
      (2)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less;
      (3)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check;
      (4)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this division may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
5.36 of this chapter.
§ 5.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 5.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
§ 5.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 5.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 5.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
§ 5.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 5.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 5.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the school or church to
the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
§ 5.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by an off-sale intoxicating liquor licensee who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
5.23(F) of this chapter to abide with the provisions of §
5.23(F).
§ 5.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2017)
§ 5.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent
malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
§ 5.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
§ 5.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
5.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any five-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any five-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any five-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any five-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
5.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-22-2020)
§§ 5.37 THROUGH 5.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 5.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to
time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold
a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any
person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule
of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any
suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any five-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any five-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any five-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding five-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
   (D)   The clerk who sold the alcohol products in violation of this section
shall receive a fine of $50.
(Am. Ord. passed 9-22-2020)
CHAPTER 6: OTHER BUSINESS REGULATION AND LICENSING
Section
   
6.01   Definitions
   
6.02   Applications
   
6.03   Action on application, transfer, termination and duplicate license
   
6.04   Fixing license fees
   
6.05   Carrying or posting
   
6.06   Penalty for property owner
   
6.07   Responsibility of licensee
   
6.08   Conditional licenses
   
6.09   Renewal of licenses
   
6.10   Insurance requirements
   
6.11   License denial and fixing rates - hearing
   6.12 through 6.29   Reserved for nature expansion
   
6.30   Dances
   
6.31   Shows
   
6.32   Bowling alleys
   
6.33   Tobacco
   
6.34   Peddlers and solicitors
   
6.35   Garbage and refuse haulers
   
6.36   Kennels
   
6.37   Used metal dealer
   
6.38   Adult service establishments
   
6.39   Pawnbrokers
   
6.40   Second-hand goods dealers
   
6.41   Tear gas and electronic incapacitation device dealers
   
6.42   Lodging tax
   
6.43   Taxi license restrictions and regulations
   
6.44   Transportation Network Companies
   
6.45   Massage therapy establishments
   
6.46   Fire certificates of occupancy
   6.47 through 6.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
6.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 6.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE ON THE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY (TNC) DISPATCH SYSTEM. 
Includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Whenever a TNC driver is logged onto a TNC’s digital network and
shown as available for pickup and transport of passengers;
      (2)   When a TNC driver has accepted a ride request and is enroute to
pick up a TNC passenger; and
      (3)   Whenever a TNC passenger is in a TNC vehicle.
   AMBULANCE.  A motor vehicle which is designed and intended to be used for
providing transportation of a wounded, injured, sick, invalid or incapacitated
human being, or an expectant mother.
   AMBULANCE SERVICE. The transportation by ambulance for a wounded, injured,
sick, invalid,  or incapacitated human being, or an expectant mother, which is
regularly offered or provided to the public by any person.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant at his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   BOND. A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services, or
transaction that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and
regulated, by the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   FOR HIRE. For remuneration, compensation or consideration of any kind
promised, paid, or given to or received by a person for the transportation of
persons.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him or her
to carry on and transact a business.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on a business.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city for carrying on a
business.
   LIMOUSINE SERVICE. The transportation of passengers for hire in a luxury
passenger automobile that is not a van or station wagon and has a seating
capacity of not more than 15 persons, excluding the driver, that is not
provided on a regular route, that provides only prearranged pickup, and that
charges more than a taxicab fare for a comparable trip.
   MOTOR VEHICLE ON STREET OR HIGHWAY. As defined in §
7.13 of this code.
   PREARRANGED RIDE. Transportation provided by a TNC driver to a TNC passenger
beginning when the driver accepts a ride requested by the passenger through the
TNC’s digital network and ending at the time the last requesting passenger
departs from the TNC vehicle. The term does not include a shared expense
carpool or vanpool arrangement or service; or transportation provided using a
taxicab, limousine or other for-hire vehicle.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All forms of and all manner or means of furnishing
merchandise to persons.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle having a seating capacity of no more than seven
persons, including the driver, used for the purpose of transporting any
passengers for hire over and upon any street or highway in the city, except any
of the following:
      (1)   Any motor carrier of passengers which is operated under a permit
from the Department of Transportation of the state or special transportation
service provider certified by the Department of Transportation of the state
pursuant to M.S. §§ 174.29 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time,
and using a driver who is qualified pursuant to Minnesota Rules Ch. 8840, as it
may be amended from time to time, when transporting a person requiring an
accessible vehicle for any purpose;
      (2)   Any ambulance, used for providing ambulance service and which is
operated under authority of a license issued by the State Board of Health;
      (3)   Any motor vehicle operated by the Duluth Transit Authority under
authority of M.S. Ch. 720, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Any limousine service as defined herein;
      (5)   A transportation vehicle operated by a federal, state, county,
municipal or school district governmental unit in conjunction with a program
sponsored or run by such governmental unit;
      (6)   Any motor vehicle providing transportation services to a federal,
state, county, municipal or school district governmental unit pursuant to a
written, extended term, contract between said transportation provider and the
governmental unit;
      (7)   Any motor vehicle used for recreational or sightseeing rides under
a license issued pursuant to §
6.43 of this chapter; and
      (8)   Any transportation network company endorsed vehicle or
Transportation Network Company (TNC) vehicle providing prearranged rides under
a license issued pursuant to §
6.44.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY or TNC. A corporation, partnership, sole
proprietorship, or other entity operating in this state that uses a TNC digital
network to connect a TNC passenger to a TNC driver for a prearranged ride. The
term does not include an entity arranging nonemergency medical transportation
under a contract with the state or a managed care organization for individuals
qualifying for Medicaid or Medicare.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY AGENT. The person or persons authorized and
designated by a TNC to:
      (1)   Receive service of process;
      (2)   File applications, rates, payments or charges on behalf of the TNC;
      (3)   Receive and accept all correspondence and notices from the city
pertaining to the city, the TNC or any TNC driver operating within the city;
and
      (4)   Forward any correspondence, notices or legal process received by
the TNC and intended for any TNC driver operating within the city.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY DIGITAL NETWORK or DIGITAL NETWORK. Any
online-enabled application, website, or system offered or used by a
transportation network company that enables a prearranged ride with a TNC
driver.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY ENDORSED DRIVER or TNC DRIVER. An individual:
      (1)   Screened and authorized by a TNC; and
      (2)   Satisfying all applicable requirements of this chapter to supply
prearranged rides to TNC passengers using a personally owned, leased, or
otherwise authorized for use TNC vehicle.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY PASSENGER or TNC PASSENGER. An individual
using a TNC’s digital network to request and receive transportation via an
authorized TNC vehicle.
   TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANY ENDORSED VEHICLE or TNC VEHICLE. A privately
owned, leased, or otherwise authorized for use vehicle that satisfies all
applicable requirements of this chapter, that is authorized by a TNC to supply
prearranged rides to TNC passengers, and that is not a taxicab, limousine, or
similar for-hire vehicle.
§ 6.02 APPLICATIONS.
   All applications shall be made as follows.
   (A)   All applications shall be made at the office of the City Clerk upon
forms that have been furnished by the city for such purposes.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, all applications must
be subscribed, sworn to, and include information as the Council shall deem
necessary considering the nature of the business for which license application
is made.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in the
application, or any willful omission to state any information called for on the
application form, shall, upon discovery of the falsehood, work an automatic
refusal of license or, if already issued, shall render any license or permit
issued pursuant thereto, void and of no effect to protect the applicant from
prosecution for violation of this chapter, or any part hereof.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall, upon receipt of each application completed in
accordance herewith, forthwith investigate the truth of statements made therein
and the moral character and business reputation of each applicant for license
to the extent as he or she deems necessary. For the investigation, the City
Clerk may enlist the aid of the Chief of Police. The Council shall not consider
an application before such investigation has been completed.
   (E)   Applications for renewal licenses may be made in such abbreviated form
as the Council may, by resolution, adopt.
§ 6.03 ACTION ON APPLICATION, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Granting. The Council may grant any application for the period of the
remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire ensuing license
year. Failure to pay any portion of a fee when due shall be cause for
revocation. No license fee shall be refundable upon revocation or voluntarily
ceasing to carry on the licensed activity. All applications, including proposed
license periods, must be consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Clerk shall forthwith
issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the Council, payment
of the appropriate license fee and approval of the bond or insurance as to form
and surety or earner, if required. All licenses shall be on a calendar year
basis unless otherwise specified herein as to particular businesses. Unless
otherwise herein specified, license fees shall be prorated on the basis of one-
twelfth for each calendar month or part thereof remaining in the then current
license year; provided that, for licenses where the fee is less than $100, a
minimum license fee equal to one-half of the annual license fee shall be
charged. Except as to licenses which are specifically city-wide, licenses shall
be valid only at one location and on the premises therein described.
   (C)   Transfer. A license shall be transferable between persons upon consent
of the Council and payment of the investigation fee. No license shall be
transferable to a different location without prior consent of the Council and
upon payment of the fee for a duplicate license. It is unlawful to make any
transfer in violation of this division (C).
   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or
revocation.
   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable cause,
refuse to grant any application or revoke any license. No license shall be
granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Before revocation of any license, the Council shall give notice to the licensee
and grant the licensee opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the
exact time of hearing shall be stated in the resolution calling for the
hearing. Grounds for revocation may be, but are not limited to, any of the
following:
      (1)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon licensed
premises;
      (2)   The licensee had knowledge of the illegal acts, but failed to
report the same to police;
      (3)   The licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with police in
investigating the alleged illegal acts; or
      (4)   The activities of the licensee created a serious danger to public
health, safety or welfare.
   (F)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Clerk, without action by the Council, upon licensee’s affidavit
that the original has been lost and upon payment of a fee of $2 for issuance of
the duplicate. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “DUPLICATE”.
§ 6.04 FIXING LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses, late fee
penalties and investigation of applicants under this chapter shall be fixed and
determined by the Council, adopted by resolution and uniformly enforced. The
license fees may, from time to time, be amended by the Council by resolution. A
copy of the resolution setting forth currently effective license fees shall be
kept on file in the office of the City Clerk, and open to inspection during
regular business hours.
   (B)   For the purpose of fixing the fees, the Council may subdivide and
categorize licenses under a specific license requirement; provided that, any
such subdivision or categorization shall be included in the resolution
authorized by this section.
§ 6.05 CARRYING OR POSTING.
   All solicitors shall, at all times when so engaged, carry their license on
their persons. All other licensees shall post their licenses in their place of
business near the licensed activity; provided, however, that, in the case of
machine or other device licensing, the city may provide a sticker for the
current license year which shall be affixed to each machine or device requiring
the sticker in a location that is visible at all times by patrons. All
licensees shall display their licenses upon demand by any officer or citizen.
§ 6.06 PENALTY FOR PROPERTY OWNER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him or her to be used, without a license, for any business for
which a license is required by this chapter.
§ 6.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in
performance of their duties for their principal or employer under the license,
shall be deemed the conduct of the licensee.
§ 6.08 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place such conditions and restrictions
upon a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
§ 6.09 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be made at least 30
days prior to the date of expiration of the license and shall contain
information as is required by the city.
§ 6.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever insurance is required by a section of this chapter, after
approval by the Council, but before the license shall issue, the applicant
shall file with the City Clerk a policy or certificate of public liability
insurance showing:
      (1)   The limits are at least as high as required;
      (2)   Coverage is effective for at least the license term approved; and
      (3)   The insurance will not be cancelled or terminated without 30 days’
written notice served upon the City Clerk.
   (B)   Cancellation or termination of the coverage shall be grounds for
license revocation.
§ 6.11 LICENSE DENIAL AND FIXING RATES - HEARING.
   (A)   Right to deny. The Council reserves to itself the right to deny any
application for a license to operate any business licensed or regulated under
this chapter where the business involves service to the public, rates charged
for service, use of public streets or other public property by the applicant or
the public, or the public health, safety and convenience. The Council may also
consider the location of the business in making the determination; provided,
however, that, before making the determination, the Council shall hold a public
hearing thereon pursuant to the notice to interested parties and the public as
it may deem necessary or proper in action calling for the hearing.
   (B)   Rates. Where, under specific provisions of this chapter, the Council
has reserved to itself the right to fix or approve fees, rates or charges of a
licensed or regulated business, the rates shall be uniform for each category or
class of service, and no licensee or proprietor of a regulated business shall
claim or demand payment in excess thereof.
   (C)   Hearing. Any applicant or licensee under this chapter who challenges
denial of a license or rates fixed or approved by the Council shall have a
right to a hearing before the Council upon written request therefor. Notice of
time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be given to the persons and by the
means as the Council may determine in calling the hearing.
§§ 6.12 THROUGH 6.29 RESERVED FOR NATURE EXPANSION.
§ 6.30 DANCES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, which fee may
be in the form of a club membership, or payment of money, directly or
indirectly.
      PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room, place or space open to public patronage
in winch dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to
which admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of
an admission fee or price for dancing.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to operate a public
dancing place, or hold a public dance, without a license therefor from the
city.
   (C)   License fee. The license fee shall include the cost of providing
attendance of a police officer or officers.
   (D)   Application and license.
      (1)   A verified application for a dance license shall be filed with the
city and shall specify the names and addresses of the person, persons,
committee or organization that is to hold the dance, time and place thereof and
the area of the dance floor.
      (2)   All applications shall be accompanied by affidavits of two
residents showing that the applicant is of good character and reputation in the
community in which he or she lives, that he or she has not been convicted of a
felony, gross misdemeanor or violation of any public dance laws within the past
five years. No license shall be issued to any person who has been so convicted.
      (3)   No license shall be granted by the Council for any place having so-
called “private apartments” or “private rooms” furnished or used for any
purposes other than a legitimate business purpose which adjoins the dancing
place, or which may be reached by stairs, elevators or passageway leading from
the dancing place. Nor shall a license be granted for any place which is not
properly ventilated and equipped with necessary toilets, washrooms or lighting
facilities.
      (4)   Applications may be referred by the Council to the Chief of Police
for investigation and report prior to being acted upon by the Council.
      (5)   The Council shall act upon all dance license applications at a
regular or special meeting thereof, whether or not it is included in the call
or agenda of the meeting.
      (6)   At least one officer of the law shall be designated by the Chief of
Police and employed by the city to be present at every public dance during the
entire time the dance is being held. For purposes of this division (D)(6), the
term OFFICER OF THE LAW means any person who is a full-time or part-time peace
officer. In the discretion of the Council or Chief of Police, more than one
such peace officer may be required.
      (7)   The dance license shall be posted in the public dancing place and
shall state the name of the licensee, the amount paid therefor and the time and
place licensed. The license shall also state that the licensee is responsible
for the manner of conducting the dance.
      (8)   No license shall be issued to any applicant under the age of 18
years.
   (E)   Dance regulations.
      (1)   Obscenity and immorality prohibited. It is unlawful for any person
to dance, or for a licensee to permit or suffer any person to dance at any
public dance in an indecent or immodest manner. It is also unlawful for any
person at a public dance to speak in a rude, boisterous, obscene or indecent
manner or for any licensee to suffer or permit any person so to act or speak in
any public dancing place.
      (2)   Illumination. Every public dancing place shall be brightly
illuminated while in public use and dancing therein while the lights are
extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give imperfect illumination is
prohibited.
      (3)   Certain persons prohibited. No licensee shall permit any unmarried
person under the age of 16 years, unless the unmarried person is accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian, to remain in a public dancing place. Nor shall
any licensee permit any intoxicated person, or other person who persists in
violating the law, to be or remain in a public dancing place.
      (4)   Hours of dancing. No public dance shall be held on Sunday between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon. No public dance shall be held on any day
between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
§ 6.31 SHOWS.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to present any public
show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance or
exhibition without first having obtained a license therefor from the city.
   (B)   Exceptions, the following instances. No license shall be required in:
      (1)   Performances presented in the local schools and colleges, under the
sponsorship of the schools and colleges and primarily for the students thereof
only;
      (2)   Performances of athletic, musical or theatrical events sponsored by
local schools or colleges using student talent only; and
      (3)   Any performance or event in, or sponsored by, bona fide local
church and non-profit organizations; provided that, the organization shall be
incorporated.
§ 6.32 BOWLING ALLEYS.
   (A)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to keep or maintain
any bowling alley available for public use without first having obtained a
license from the city.
   (B)   Hours. No bowling alley shall be open during the hours from 2:00 a.m.
to 7:00 a.m. of any day or from 2:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight on Sunday.
§ 6.33 TOBACCO.
   (A)   Purpose. Because the city recognizes that the sale of commercial
tobacco, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or
lobelia delivery products to persons under the age of 21 violates both state
and federal law; and because studies, which the city accepts and adopts, have
shown that high school use of any commercial tobacco product has increased to
27.6% in Minnesota; and because nearly 90% of people who smoke begin smoking
before they have reached the age of 18 years, and that almost no one starts
smoking after age 25; and because marketing analysis, public health research,
and commercial tobacco industry documents reveal that tobacco companies have
used menthol, mint, fruit, candy, and alcohol flavors as a way to target youth
and young adults and that the presence of such flavors can make it more
difficult to quit; and because studies show that youth and young adults are
especially susceptible to commercial tobacco product availability, advertising,
and price promotions at tobacco retail environments; and because commercial
tobacco use has been shown to be the cause of many serious health problems
which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of government, this
section is intended to regulate the sale of commercial tobacco, tobacco-related
devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect youth and
young adults against the serious health effects associated with use and
initiation, and to further the official public policy of the state to prevent
young people from starting to smoke, as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be
amended from time to time. In making these findings, the City Council accepts
the conclusions and recommendations of: the U.S. Surgeon General reports, E-
cigarette Use Among Youth and Young Adults (2016), The Health Consequences of
Smoking-50 Years of Progress (2014) and Preventing Tobacco Use Among Youth and
Young Adults (2012); the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in their
studies, Tobacco Use Among Middle and High School Students-United States, 2011-
2015 (2016), and Selected Cigarette Smoking Initiation and Quitting Behaviors
Among High School Students, United States, 1997 (1998); and the following
scholars in these scientific journals: Chen, J., & Millar, W.J. (1998). Age of
smoking initiation: implications for quitting. Health Reports, 9(4), 39-46;
D’Avanzo, B., La Vecchia, C., & Negri, E. (1994). Age at starting smoking and
number of cigarettes smoked. Annals of Epidemiology, 4(6), 455-459; Everett,
S.A., Warren, C. W., Sharp, D., Kann, L., Husten, C.G., & Crossett, L. S.
(1999). Initiation of cigarette smoking and subsequent smoking behavior among
U.S. high school students. Preventive Medicine, 29(5), 327-333; Giovino, G. A.
(2002). Epidemiology of tobacco use in the United States. Oncogene, 21(48),
7326-7340; Khuder, S. A., Dayal, H. H., & Mutgi, A. B. (1999). Age at smoking
onset and its effect on smoking cessation. Addictive Behaviors, 24(5), 673-677;
Luke, D. A., Hammond, R.A., Combs, T., Sorg, A., Kasman, M., Mack-Crane, A.,
Henriksen, June 2020 www.publichealthlawcenter.org Minnesota City Retail
Tobacco Licensing Ordinance 6L. (2017). Tobacco Town: Computational Modeling of
Policy Options to Reduce Tobacco Retailer Density. American Journal of Public
Health, 107(5), 740-746; Minnesota Department of Health. (2020). Data
Highlights from the 2019 Minnesota Youth Tobacco Survey. Saint Paul, MN;
Tobacco Control Legal Consortium. (2006). The Verdict Is In: Findings from
United States v. Philip Morris, The Hazards of Smoking. University of
California San Francisco. Truth Tobacco Industry Documents, https://
industrydocumentslibrary.ucsf.edu/tobacco; Xu, X., Bishop, E.E., Kennedy, S.
M., Simpson, S. A., & Pechacek, T.F. (2015) Annual healthcare spending
attributable to cigarette smoking: an update. American Journal of Preventive
Medicine, 48(3), 326-333, copies of which are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions and interpretations. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular. The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and
vice versa. The term "shall" means mandatory and the term "may" means
permissive.
      CANNABINOID. Any of the chemical constituents of hemp plants or cannabis
plants that are naturally occurring, biologically active, and act on the
cannabinoid receptors of the brain. CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol.
      CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING. Packaging that meets the definition set forth
in C.F.R., Title 16, § l700.15(b), as in effect on January 1, 2015, and was
tested in accordance with the method described in C.F.R., Title 16, § 1700.20,
as in effect on January 1, 2015.
      CIGAR. Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any
other substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which
is not a cigarette as defined in M.S. § 297F.01, subd. 3 as it may be amended
from time to time.
      COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and insure
that those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying
with the requirements of this section. COMPLIANCE CHECKS involve the use of
persons under the age of 21 who purchase or attempt to purchase licensed
products. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the city or other units of
government for educational, research, and training purposes or for
investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and regulations
relating to licensed products. (June 2020 www.publichealthlawcenter.org
Minnesota City Retail Tobacco Licensing Ordinance 7)
      DELIVERY SALE. The sale of any licensed product to any person for
personal consumption and not for resale when the sale is conducted by any means
other than an in-person, over-the-counter sales transaction in a licensed
retail establishment. DELIVERY SALE includes but is not limited to the sale of
any licensed product when the sale is conducted by telephone, other voice
transmission, mail, the internet, or app-based service. DELIVERY SALE includes
delivery by licensees or third parties by any means, including curbside pick-
up.
      ELECTRONIC CIGARETTE OR VAPING DEVICES. Any electronic-smoking device
that can be used to deliver nicotine or any other substances to the person
inhaling from the device. The term shall include such devices whether they are
manufactured as electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars, electronic pipes or
any other product name.
      ELECTRONIC DELIVER DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for sale as "drugs," "devices," or
"combination products," as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      FLAVORED PRODUCT. Any licensed product that contains a taste or smell,
other than the taste or smell of tobacco, that is distinguishable by an
ordinary consumer either prior to or during the consumption of the product,
including, but not limited to, any taste or smell relating to chocolate, cocoa,
menthol, mint, wintergreen, vanilla, honey, fruit, or any candy, dessert,
alcoholic beverage, herb, or spice. A public statement or claim, whether
express or implied, made or disseminated by the  manufacturer of a licensed
product, or by any person authorized or permitted by the manufacturer to make
or disseminate public statements concerning such products, that a product has
or produces a taste or smell other than a taste or smell of tobacco will
constitute presumptive evidence that the product is a flavored product. (June
2020 www.publichealthlawcenter.org Minnesota City Retail Tobacco Licensing
Ordinance 8)
      IMITATION TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any edible non-tobacco product designed to
resemble a tobacco product and intended to be used by children as a toy.
IMITATION TOBACCO PRODUCT includes, but is not limited to, candy or chocolate
cigarettes, bubble gum cigars, shredded bubble gum resembling chewing tobacco,
and shredded beef jerky in containers resembling tobacco snuff tins. IMITATION
TOBACCO PRODUCT does not include electronic delivery devices or nicotine or
lobelia delivery products.
      INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this section shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. Cartons, shall be defined in this section, as
packaging containing ten or more packages of cigarettes.
      INDOOR AREA. All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by
walls, doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than 50% of
the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the perimeter of
the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or other
physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent.
      LICENSED PRODUCTS. Collectively refers to any tobacco, tobacco-related
device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
      LOOSIES. Used to refer to single cigarettes, cigars, and any other
licensed products that have been removed from their original retail packaging
and offered for sale. LOOSIES does not include premium cigars that are hand-
constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and have a
filler and binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or other
materials used to maintain size, texture, or flavor.
      MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
      MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a kiosk,
truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
that is not a fixed address or other permanent type of structure licensed for
over-the-counter sales transactions.
      NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or
delivering nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of
such a product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined
in this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT does not include any
nicotine cessation product that has been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to be marketed and for sale as "drugs," "devices," or
"combination products," as defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      PHARMACY. A place of business at which prescription drugs are prepared,
compounded, or dispensed by or under the supervision of a pharmacist and from
which related clinical pharmacy services are delivered.
      PROHIBITED SUBSTANCES. Any tobacco, cannabinoid, or cannabis related
product, electronic cigarette and any other substance labeled as not safe for
or intended for human consumption.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT includes, but is
not limited to, grocery stores, tobacco products shops convenience stores,
liquor stores, gasoline services stations, bars, and restaurants.
      SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other
consideration.
      SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY. The open display of licensed products in a retail
establishment in any manner where any person has access to the licensed
products without the assistance or intervention of the licensee or the
licensee's employee and where a physical exchange of the licensed product from
the licensee or the licensee's employee to the customer is not required in
order to access the licensed product.
      SMOKE. the gases, particles or vapors released into the atmosphere as a
result of combustion, electrical ignition or vaporization of or by any
prohibited substance;
         (a)   Smoking shall mean inhaling or exhaling smoke from any
instrumentality, including but not limited to any cigar, cigarette, pipe,
hookah pipe or an operating electronic cigarette, or having in possession any
such instrumentality producing smoke or engaging in any act that generates
smoke;
         (b)   Tobacco related products shall mean any product containing, made
or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption, or any
component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, including but not limited
to tobacco found in cigars and cigarettes, tobacco intended to be used in pipes
or cigarettes, chewing tobacco, moist or dry snuff, dissolvable tobacco
products and electronic cigarettes and any other product containing, made or
derived from tobacco that is intended or expected to be consumed with or
without being combusted but does not include any tobacco product that has been
approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a
tobacco cessation product, tobacco dependent product or for other medical
purposes and is marketed and sold only for those purposes.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing,
made, or derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant, whether
natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. SMOKING also includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
      TOBACCO. Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is
intended for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved,
inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component,
part, or accessory of a tobacco product including by not limited to:
cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated, plug cut, crimp
cut, ready rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff, snuff flour, cavendish,
plug and twist tobacco, fine cut and other chewing tobaccos, shorts, refuse
scraps, clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds and forms
of tobacco. TOBACCO does not include any nicotine cessation product that has
been authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for
sale as "drugs," "devices," or "combination products," as defined in the
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
      TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICE. Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICE includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may
or may not contain tobacco.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens, or
other form of payment into or onto the device by the person seeking to purchase
the licensed product.
      YOUTH-ORIENTED FACILITY. Any facility with residents, customers,
visitors, or inhabitants of which 25% or more are regularly under the age of 21
or that primarily sells, rents, or offers services or products that are
consumed or used primarily by persons under the age of 21. YOUTH-ORIENTED
FACILITY includes, but is not limited to, schools, playgrounds, recreation
centers, and parks.
   (C)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related device without first having obtained a
license to do so from the city.
      (1)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City
Clerk shall forward the application to the City Council for action at its next
regularly scheduled Council meeting. If the City Clerk shall determine that an
application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
      (2)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or
it may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete
any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If
the Council approves the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license to the
applicant. If the Council denies the license, notice of the denial shall be
given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to appeal the
Council’s decision.
      (3)   Term. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid for one
calendar year, except, if issued in mid year, the license shall expire as of
December 31 of that year.
      (4)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may
be revoked or suspended as provided in division (J) below.
      (5)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid
only on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person
to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location
or person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
      (6)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a
moveable place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to
be licensed under this section.
      (7)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view
of the general public on the licensed premises.
      (8)   Renewals. The city shall notify the tobacco license applicants of
their renewal in December of each year.
   (D)   Fees. No license shall be issued under this section until the
appropriate license fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this
section shall be $75 for the year 1998 and $100 for the year 1999 and for each
year thereafter until further action by the City Council.
   (E)   Basis for denial of license. The following shall be grounds for
denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this section; however,
except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any particular
ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the license. If a
license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be revoked upon
the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under this
section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco-related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information; and
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding such a license.
   (F)   Prohibited sales. It shall be a violation of this section for any
person to offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine unless the facility cannot
be entered by any person under the age of 21;
      (3)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need
to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device,
except for the sale of cartons of cigarettes;
      (4)   By means of loosies as defined in division (B) above; and
      (5)   By any other means, or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state or other local law, ordinance provision or other regulation.
   (G)   Responsibility. All licensees under this section shall be responsible
for the actions of their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of
an item by an employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder.
Nothing in this section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also
subjecting the City Clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this
section, state law or other applicable law or regulation.
   (H)   Compliance check and inspection. All licensed premises shall be open
to inspection by the city police or other authorized city official during
regular business hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the city
shall conduct compliance checks by engaging minors to enter the licensed
premises to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related
devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall not be guilty
of unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
when the items are obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in
compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting
the minor’s age and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall
answer all questions about the minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her
employee and shall produce any identification for which he or she is asked. The
city shall have one complete compliance check per year wherein it shall check
all licensed premises in the city and an additional check conducted by the
Police Department of the largest sellers of tobacco products in the community.
Compliance checks must use minors who are over 17 years of age of under 21
years of age.
   (I)   Other illegal acts. Unless otherwise provided, the following acts
shall be a violation of this section.
      (1)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this section for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device. This division (I)(l) shall not apply to minors lawfully
involved in a compliance check on behalf of the city or who have only temporary
possession during a legal sales transaction.
      (2)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this section for any
individual 21 years of age or under to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any
tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device.
      (3)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this section for
any individual 21 years of age or under to purchase or attempt to purchase or
otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device, and it
shall be a violation of this section for any person to purchase or otherwise
obtain the items on behalf of an individual 21 years of age or under. It shall
also be a violation of this section for any person to sell or otherwise provide
any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device to any individual 21
years of age or under and it shall further be a violation for any person to
coerce or attempt to coerce an individual 21 years of age or under to illegally
purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device. This division (I)(3) shall not apply to individuals 21 years of
age or under lawfully involved in a compliance check on behalf of the city.
      (4)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this
section for any individual 21 years of age or under to attempt to disguise his
or her true age by the use of a false form of identification whether the
identification is that of another person or one on which the age of the person
has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than the actual
age of the person.
      (5)   No smoking on or near Essentia Health Campus. This section
prohibits smoking on sidewalks and publicly-owned outdoor areas within 50 feet
of the Essentia Health campus.
         (a)   PUBLIC PLACE. Any public street, public sidewalk, public
easement, publicly-owned property, public park, publicly owned or operated
parking lot or parking facility.
         (b)   SMOKE OR SMOKING. The use or possession of a lighted cigar,
cigarette, pipe, tobacco smoking device, cannabinoid smoking device, or any
other lighted smoking equipment.
         (c)   No person shall smoke in any public place within 50 feet of the
nearest property line of the Essentia Health campus, the 50 feet measured in a
straight line in constant elevation.
         (d)   The prohibition of division (I)(5)(c) above does not apply to a
person inside an enclosed motor vehicle in motion on a public street or alley.
      (6)   Smoking prohibitions. Tobacco and cannabinoids smoke is a major
contributor to indoor air pollution, and breathing second hand smoke, whether
indoors or outdoors, is a cause of disease, including lung cancer, in
nonsmokers. At special risk are children, elderly people, individuals with
cardiovascular disease and individuals with impaired respiratory function,
including asthmatics and those with obstructive airway disease. Many of these
individuals cannot go into public places with second hand smoke due to their
respiratory or allergenic handicap. Health hazards induced by breathing second
hand smoke include, but are not limited to: lung cancer, heart disease,
respiratory infection and decreased respiratory function. The simple separation
of smokers and nonsmokers within the same air space may reduce, but does not
eliminate, the exposure of nonsmokers to environmental tobacco and cannabis
smoke for which there is no known safe level of exposure. Thus the City Council
deems that creating public spaces that limit the exposure to secondhand smoke
is necessary for public health and safety.
         (a)   By order of the City Council of the City of Virginia, smoking,
as defined in §
6.33(B), is prohibited in the following locations:
            i.   On all public streets, public sidewalks, public easements, or
within ten feet of an entrance to such building unless designated otherwise for
such use by order to the City Council.
            ii.   In all publicly-owned or operated parking lot or parking
facility. This prohibition does not apply to a person inside an enclosed motor
vehicle in motion on a public street or alley, or in a parking lot or facility.
            iii.   On all publicly-owned property, public parks unless a permit
has been issued for the area or in an area designated for such use.
            iv.   In all buildings used as a youth-oriented facility.
         (b)   This section is intended to complement the Minnesota Clean
Indoor Air Act, M.S. §§ 144.411 to 144.417, as amended from time to time.
Nothing in this section authorizes smoking in any location where smoking is
restricted by other applicable laws.
         (c)   Any person violating §
6.33 of the City Code is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Amended 1-1-2007)
   (J)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Notice. A person violating this section may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the city that sets forth the alleged
violation and that informs the alleged violator of their right to a hearing on
the matter and how and where a hearing may be requested, including a contact
address and phone number.
      (2)   Hearings.
         (a)   Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
section may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten business days of the issuance of the citation and delivered
to the City Clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to properly request
a hearing within ten business days of the issuance of the citation will
terminate the person’s right to a hearing.
         (b)   The City Clerk or other designated city officer will set the
time and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place
will be mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten business days
prior to the hearing.
      (3)   Hearing officer. The City Council will designate a hearing officer.
The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
      (4)   Decision. A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within
ten business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this section did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer’s reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the city and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the city and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in division (A)(6) of this section.
      (5)   Costs. If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the city’s
actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000 must be paid
by the person requesting the hearing.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must
be filed in Saint Louis County district court located within the City of
Virginia within ten business days of the date of the decision.
      (7)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (K)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee cited for violating this section, or whose
employee has violated this section, will be charged an administrative fine of
$300 for a first violation; $600 for a second offense at the same licensed
premises within a 36-month period; and $1,000 for a third or subsequent offense
at the same location within a 36-month period. Upon the third violation, the
license will be suspended for a period of not less than 30 consecutive days and
may be revoked. Upon a fourth violation within a 36-month period, the license
will be revoked.
      (2)   Employees of licensees and other individuals. Individuals, other
than persons under the age of 21 regulated in division (K)(3) of this section,
who are found to be in violation of this section may be charged an
administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Persons under the age of 21. Persons under the age of 21 who use a
false identification to purchase or attempt to purchase licensed products may
only be subject to noncriminal, non-monetary civil penalties or remedies such
as tobacco-related education classes, diversion programs, community services,
or another non-monetary, civil penalty that the city determines to be
appropriate. The City Council will consult with educators, parents, guardians,
persons under the age of 21, public health officials, court personnel, and
other interested parties to determine an approopriate remedy for persons under
the age of 21 in the city in the best interest of the underage person. The
remedies for persons under 21 who use a false identification to purchase or
attempt to purchase licensed products may be established by ordinance and
amended from time to time.
      (4)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalty for violations
against licensed retailers under § (B)(1) authorized to impose by M.S. §
461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ from that established in
this section, then the higher penalty will prevail.
   (L)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section prohibits the city
from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for an alleged second violation of
this section by a person 21 years of age or older within five years of a
previous conviction under the section.
   (M)   Exceptions and defenses. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
providing of tobacco products or tobacco-related devices to a minor as part of
a lawfully recognized religious spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this section for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
   (O)   Severability and savings clause. If any section or portion of this
section shall be found unconstitutional or otherwise invalid or unenforceable
by a court of competent jurisdiction, that finding shall not serve as an
invalidation or effect the validity and enforceability of any other section or
provision of this section.
(Adopted 9-24-1997; Am. Ord. passed 11-24-2020; Am. Ord. passed 9-26-2023)
§ 6.34 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   (A)   Definitions. Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the
purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-
to-business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement,
for the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling
or attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
      PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
      REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
      SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-
to-business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement,
for the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term “canvasser.”
      TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
   (B)   Exceptions to definitions.
      (1)   For the purpose of the requirements of this section, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
      (2)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this section shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit or
restrict door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall
not be required to register as solicitors under division (G) of this section.
The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
   (C)   Licensing; exemptions.
      (1)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the activity.
      (2)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be
amended from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this section no
person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant
without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be
licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to division (G) of this
section.
      (3)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
         (a)   Applicant’s full legal name.
         (b)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or
to which applicant officially answers.
         (c)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
         (d)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence.
         (e)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence.
         (f)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned,
managed or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or
agent.
         (g)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any).
         (h)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
         (i)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
         (j)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily
license.
         (k)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct
business, and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of
days he or she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14
consecutive days.
         (l)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
         (m)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor for violation of any state or federal statute or any local
ordinance, other than traffic offenses.
         (n)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
         (o)   Proof of any required county license.
         (p)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
         (q)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
         (r)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
         (s)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
         (t)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
      (4)   Fee. All applications for a license under this section shall be
accompanied by the fee established by the City Council.
      (5)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under division (D) of this section, in which case the
Clerk must deny the license application. If the City Clerk denies the license
application, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing
before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days
of the date of the request for a public hearing. The decision of the City
Council following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the
Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
      (6)   Duration. An annual license granted under this section shall be
valid for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted
to peddlers and transient merchants under this section shall be valid only
during the time period indicated on the license.
      (7)   License exemptions.
         (a)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt
to sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
         (b)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person's exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
   (D)   License ineligibility. The following shall be grounds for denying a
license under this section:
      (1)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
      (2)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
      (3)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
      (4)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to
the applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
      (5)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence
of a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the
existence of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better
Business Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, or other state
attorney general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office
or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against
the applicant within the preceding five years.
   (E)   License suspension and revocation.
      (1)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended
or revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
         (a)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form.
         (b)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity.
         (c)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under division (D) of this section.
         (d)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under division (H)
of this section.
         (e)   Violation of any other provision of this section.
      (2)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
      (3)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under
this section, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of
the alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing
on the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
      (4)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (E)
(3) of this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public
hearing. If no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten
regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service
shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
      (5)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm
to the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this section, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (E)(3) of this
section.
      (6)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under
this section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
   (F)   License transferability. No license issued under this section shall be
transferred to any person other than the person to whom the license was issued.
   (G)   Registration. All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing
requirements of this section under division (C), shall be required to register
with the city. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required
to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to- door canvassing
and pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political
and other ideas. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a
license application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion
of the registration form, the City Clerk shall issue to the registrant a
Certificate of Registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
Registration shall be non-transferable.
   (H)   Prohibited activities. No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
shall conduct business in any of the following manners:
      (1)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
      (2)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
      (3)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
      (4)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
      (5)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or
service being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler,
solicitor or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city
solely based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration
to that person.
      (6)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
   (I)   Exclusion by placard. No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant,
unless invited to do so by the property owner or tenant, shall enter the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor or transient merchant when the property is marked with a sign or
placard at least four inches long and four inches wide with print of at least
48 point in size stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable
statement. No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
   (J)   Effectiveness. The provisions of division (A), (B), (H) and (I) of
this section shall automatically apply upon adoption of this section. Divisions
(C), (D), (E), (F) and (G) of this section shall not be effective until the
adoption of a City Council resolution or ordinance authorizing the licensing of
persons covered by those sections.
§ 6.35 GARBAGE AND REFUSE HAULERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      GARBAGE. All putrescible wastes, including animal offal and carcasses of
dead animals, but excluding human excrete, sewage and other water-carried
wastes.
      OTHER REFUSE. Ashes, glass, crockery, cans, paper, boxes, rags and
similar non-putrescible wastes, but excluding sand, earth, brick, stone,
concrete, trees, tree branches and wood.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to haul garbage or
other refuse for hire without a license therefor from the city, or to haul
garbage or other refuse from his or her own residence or business property
other than as herein excepted.
   (C)   Exception. Nothing in this section shall prevent persons from hauling
garbage or other refuse from their own residences or business properties
provided the following rules are observed:
      (1)   All garbage is hauled in containers that are water-tight on all
sides and the bottom and with tight-fitting covers on top;
      (2)   All other refuse is hauled in vehicles with leak-proof bodies and
completely covered or enclosed by canvas or other means or material so as to
completely eliminate the possibility of loss of cargo; and
      (3)   All garbage and other refuse shall be dumped or unloaded only at
the designated sanitary landfill.
   (D)   Hauler licensee requirements.
      (1)   Hauler licenses shall be granted only upon the condition that the
licensee have water-tight, packer-type vehicles in good condition to prevent
loss in transit of liquid or solid cargo, that the vehicle be kept clean and as
free from offensive odors as possible and not allowed to stand in any street
longer than reasonably necessary to collect garbage or refuse, and that the
same be dumped or unloaded only at the designated sanitary landfill, and
strictly in accordance with regulations relating thereto.
      (2)   Before a garbage and refuse hauler’s license shall be issued, the
applicant shall file with the City Clerk evidence that he or she has provided
public liability insurance on all vehicles in at least the sum of $100,000 for
the injury of one person, $300,000 for the injury of two or more persons in the
same accident and $10,000 for property damages.
      (3)   Licensees shall deliver all refuse to the sanitary landfill and
shall be required to pay non-resident rates for any refuse collected outside
the city. Collection outside the city and failure to pay non-resident rates
therefor shall be grounds for revocation of the license.
      (4)   The Council, in the interest of maintaining healthful and sanitary
conditions in the city, hereby reserves the right to specify and assign certain
areas to all licensees and to limit the number of licenses issued.
      (5)   Each applicant shall file with the City Clerk, before a garbage and
refuse hauler’s license is issued or renewed, a schedule of proposed rates to
be charged by him or her during the licensed period for which the application
is made. The schedule of proposed rates, or a compromise schedule thereof,
shall be approved by the Council before granting the license. Nothing herein
shall prevent a licensee from petitioning the Council for review of the rates
during the licensed period and the Council may likewise consider the petition
and make new rates effective at any time. No licensee shall charge rates in
excess of the rates approved by the Council.
§ 6.36 KENNELS.
   (A)   Defined. For the purpose of this section, the term KENNEL means any
place, building, tract of land, abode or vehicle, wherein or whereon more than
three dogs, over six months of age, are kept, kept for sale or boarded.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain
a kennel without a license therefor from the city.
   (C)   License fee. The annual fee for a kennel license is $10.
   (D)   Exception. Hospitals and clinics operated by licensed veterinarians
exclusively for the care and treatment of animals are exempt from the
provisions of this section.
   (E)   Zoning. No license shall be issued to a person for operation of a
kennel in a zoning district where the operation is not permitted or otherwise
allowed under the Zoning Chapter of the city code.
§ 6.37 USED METAL DEALER.
   (A)   Definition. USED METAL DEALER means a person who keeps, conducts or
maintains a building, structure, yard or place for keeping, storing or piling
in commercial quantities whether temporarily, irregularly or continually, or
for buying or selling at retail or wholesale or dealing in any old, used or
second-hand rubber, iron, brass, copper or other metal, including used parts of
motor vehicles, whether with a fixed place of business or as an itinerant.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of, or operate as, a used metal dealer without a license therefor from
the city.
   (C)   Bond required. Each applicant for a license under this section shall
be accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $1,000 conditioned on the licensee
strictly keeping and of serving all provisions of the city code and other laws
relating to the licensed business.
   (D)   License regulations and restrictions.
      (1)   In addition to the Chief of Police, the premises proposed to be
licensed shall be inspected by the Fire Chief and the Building Official to
determine whether or not the business can be safely and lawfully operated
thereon. The premises and all structures thereon shall be so situated and
constructed that the business of used metal dealer may be carried on in a
sanitary manner, shall contain no fire hazards, and shall be arranged so that
thorough inspection may be made at any time by the proper health, fire,
building and police authorities.
      (2)   Each of the premises upon which the business is to be earned on
shall be enclosed by a proper fence or other structure not less than seven feet
in height, constructed so that no dust or other material may pass through. The
enclosure shall be maintained in good condition at all times. No article shall
be piled so as to protrude above the enclosure.
      (3)   No applicant to whom a license has been refused, shall make further
application until a period of at least six months shall have elapsed since the
last previous rejection unless he or she can show that the reason for the
rejection no longer exists.
      (4)   No license as a used metal dealer shall be granted to any person
who has been convicted within two years of the date of application of a
violation of this section; nor to any person who has within five years of the
date of application been convicted of a felony.
      (5)   The issuance of a license shall not entitle the holder thereof to
buy, sell, keep, store, pile or deal in any old, used or second-hand material
of any kind other than the materials listed in division (A) above.
      (6)   No licensee shall remove his or her place of business from the
place designated in the license until a written permit has been secured from
the city and the same shall have been endorsed upon the license.
      (7)   No used metal dealer shall carry on the business at or from any
other place than the one designated in the license therefor. Nor shall the
business be carried on after the license has been revoked or has expired. No
used metal dealer shall make any purchase from any person, or receive any
articles, between the setting of the sun and 7:00 a.m. in the morning. No used
metal dealer shall purchase or acquire from a person under the age of 18 years
any of the materials listed in division (A) above, without the written consent
of a parent or guardian. No items shall be acquired from any intoxicated
person.
      (8)   The contents of the premises of every used metal dealer shall be
arranged in an orderly manner with all similar things located together so as to
facilitate inspection by the proper authorities. The premises of every used
metal dealer shall be subject to inspection by the city at any time. All
articles received shall be retained for ten days before disposal.
      (9)   It is the duty of every licensee hereunder to keep in such form as
the Chief of Police may prescribe, a record of articles purchased and sold,
including an accurate description of parts and accessories of wrecked motor
vehicles, the name and residence of the person from whom each article was
purchased and the day and hour of the purchase and the price paid.
      (10)   No person shall knowingly buy, sell, receive, dispose of, conceal
or have in his or her possession any motor vehicle part or accessory from which
the manufacturer’s serial number or any other number or identification mark has
been removed, defaced, covered, altered or destroyed for the purpose of
concealing or misrepresenting the identity of the vehicle, part or accessory.
Every person to whom is offered for sale, storage or wreckage any motor
vehicle, part or accessory from which has been removed, defaced, covered,
altered or destroyed the manufacturer’s serial number or any other number or
identification mark shall immediately notify the Chief of Police of the offer.
      (11)   If any goods, articles or things whatsoever shall be advertised in
any newspaper printed in the city, as having been lost or stolen, and the same,
or any answering the description advertised, or any part or portion thereof
shall be or come into possession of any used metal dealer, he or she shall give
information thereof, in writing to the Chief of Police, and state from whom the
same was received. Any used metal dealer who shall have received any goods,
articles or things lost or stolen, shall exhibit the same on demand to any
police officer.
§ 6.38 ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Findings. The Council has determined that regulation of massage
parlors and other adult service establishments is necessary in order to prevent
and eliminate abuses against the public health, safety and morals of the
residents of the city for the reasons hereafter stated. The Council finds that
potential for crimes against residents of the city which is associated with and
arises out of activities of adult service establishments and the need for the
residents of the city to be secure and safe in their homes, businesses or
accommodations requires the regulation. The presence of adult service
establishments in the city will increase the burden upon law enforcement
personnel in order to prevent abuse, fraud, deception and detrimental hygienic
conditions if adult service establishments are allowed to develop unregulated.
It is necessary to the social and economic well being of the community that a
sound and upstanding reputation for safety, health and morals be maintained by
both the residents of the city and visitors thereto. The Council takes notice
of the problems presented to law enforcement and health department agencies by
the use of outcall adult services. Outcall adult services are a health hazard
in that they possess a great potential for the spread of communicable diseases
which could be detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the residents
of, and visitors to, the city. It is the further intention of the Council that,
by this regulation, the possibility of prostitution and related illegal
activities be minimized at legitimate adult service establishments.
   (B)   Scope and interpretation. The intent of this section is to protect the
public safety, health and morals. This regulation of adult service
establishments will be by controlling locations and licensing the operations.
It is the intent of the Council to control to some degree the undesirable and
deleterious side effects that accompany the location of adult service
establishments in or near residential neighborhoods.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ADULT SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment having a source of income,
derived from the practice of therapeutic services or services reputed to be
therapeutic, including, but not limited to, saunas and rap or massage parlors,
whether or not the services are offered by a person of the same sex as the
customer or client of the establishment, and whether or not the reputed
therapeutic service offered is physical or psychological. Further, it is any
such business that has a fixed place of doing business where any person engages
in or carries on any such activities, except establishments practicing
medicine, chiropractic or other service professions licensed or regulated by
the state.
      MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on or friction against or stroking,
kneading, nibbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating of the external
parts of the human body with the hands or with the aid of mechanical electrical
apparatus or appliances with or without such supplementary aid as nibbing
alcohol, liniment, antiseptics, oil, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or
other similar preparations commonly used in the practice of massage, under such
circumstances that it is reasonably expected that the person to whom the
treatment is provided or some third person on his or her behalf will pay money
or give any other consideration of any gratuity therefor.
      PERMITTEE. Any person who in the course of any employment either directly
or indirectly engages in the practices of massage or any other physical or
psychological therapeutic treatment, or treatment reputed to be therapeutic,
except one who practices medicine, chiropractic or other service professions
licensed or regulated by the state.
   (D)   Location. Adult service establishments shall be located only in those
areas within the city which are zoned as follows: Shopping Business District.
No adult service establishment shall be located within 500 feet of any
residential, religious, charitable or education use or land zoned therefor, nor
shall any adult service establishment be located within 500 feet of another
adult service establishment or within 500 feet of an adult establishment as
defined in this section. The distance is to be measured from the edge of the
lot on which the adult service establishment premises are located to the
nearest edge of the other use or zoning district.
   (E)   Hours. The hours for the operation of any adult service establishment
shall be limited to 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. each weekday, and closed on Sunday.
   (F)   Minors. No adult service establishment shall employ minors, nor shall
it admit any minors onto its premises. No licensee or permittee shall render
any service to a minor.
   (G)   Non-discriminatory. Any adult service establishment shall employ and
have on duty at all times a substantially equal number of persons of either
sex. No discrimination shall be carried on in either the employment or business
practices of the adult service establishment on grounds of race, creed, color
or sex.
   (H)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business or operate an adult service establishment, unless the adult service
establishment is currently licensed pursuant to the city code.
   (I)   Application for license. Every application for license shall be filed
with the City Clerk on a form provided by the city and shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   The exact nature of the activities to be conducted;
      (2)   The proposed place of business;
      (3)   Full description of facilities for the proposed place of business;
      (4)   The name and address of each applicant;
      (5)   The applicant’s prior addresses for the past five years;
      (6)   Proof that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (7)   The applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes and hair;
      (8)   Two portrait photographs of the applicant of the dimensions of at
least two inches by two inches;
      (9)   The business and occupational employment of the applicant for the
three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (10)   The massage or similar business license history of the applicant;
whether the person, in previously operating in any other city or state has had
a business license revoked or suspended, and the reason therefor; the business
activity or occupation subsequent to such action of suspension or revocation;
      (11)   All criminal convictions, except traffic parking violations;
      (12)   Applicant, if a natural person, must furnish a diploma or
certificate of graduation from a recognized school, or other institution of
learning wherein the method, profession and work of physical or psychological
therapy is taught; provided, however, that, if the applicant himself or herself
will not engage in the practice of physical or psychological therapy, he or she
need not possess the diploma or certificate. Nothing herein contained shall be
to deny the city the right to request fingerprints and additional photographs
of the applicant. Nor shall anything contained herein be construed to deny the
right of the city to confirm the height and weight of the applicant;
      (13)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall contain
the name of the corporation exactly as shown on its articles of incorporation;
the names and residences of each of the officers, directors and each
shareholder holding more than 5% of the stock of the corporation. If the
applicant is a partnership, the application shall set forth the name and
address and residence of each of the partners, including limited partners. If
one or more of the partners is a corporation, the provisions of this section
pertaining to a corporate application shall apply;
      (14)   If the applicant is a natural person, he or she must provide the
names, current addresses and sworn affidavits of at least five bona fide
permanent residents of the state that the applicant is of good moral character.
If the applicant is able, the statement must first be furnished from residents
of the city, then the county and then the state;
      (15)   The location of the business premises; and
      (16)   Other information as the Council may require.
   (J)   Falsification of information. Any falsification of information on the
license is unlawful and shall result in a denial of the license.
   (K)   Subsequent changes in license application information. It shall be the
continuing duty of each licensee to properly notify the City Clerk of any
change in the information or facts required under this section to be furnished
on the application for license. This duty shall continue through the period of
the license. Failure to comply with this division (K) shall constitute cause
for revocation or suspension of the license.
   (L)   Permit required. Any person who desires to engage in the practice of
physical or psychological therapy, unless otherwise exempted, shall first
obtain a permit from the city.
   (M)   Application for permit. Every application for permit shall be filed
with the City Clerk. Each application shall be made on a form provided by the
city and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address, and all names, nicknames and aliases by which
the applicant has been known;
      (2)   The applicant’s Social Security number, driver’s license number, if
any, and date of birth;
      (3)   Applicant’s weight, height, color of hair and color of eyes;
      (4)   Written evidence that the applicant is at least 18 years of age;
      (5)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for the
past three years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime other
than traffic parking violations. If the applicant has been so convicted, a
statement must be made giving the place and court in which the conviction was
had, the specific charge under which the conviction was obtained and the
sentence imposed as a result of the conviction;
      (7)   The name and address of the recognized school attended, the dates
attended and a copy of the diploma, or certificate of graduation awarded to the
applicant showing the applicant has completed not less than 500 hours of
instruction. No more than 250 of these hours can be in that form of instruction
commonly referred to as “on the job training”;
      (8)   The city shall have the right to take fingerprints and a photograph
of the applicant and retains the right to confirm the information submitted;
      (9)   The names, current addresses and written statements of at least
five bona fide permanent residents of the state other than relatives that the
applicant is of good moral character. If the applicant is able, the statement
must first be furnished from residents of the city, then the county and then
the state; and
      (10)   In addition to the above information, the applicant shall furnish
written evidence that he or she has been examined by a physician and has been
certified as free from communicable diseases. The evidence shall be furnished
to the City Clerk on a semi-annual basis to correspond with the renewal of the
permit. The permittee shall notify the City Clerk of each change in any of the
dates required to be furnished by this division (M)(10) within ten days after
the change occurs.
   (N)   Falsification of information on permit. Any falsification of
information on the permit application is unlawful and shall result in the
denial of the permit.
   (O)   Subsequent changes in permit application information. It shall be the
continuing duty of each permittee to properly notify the City Clerk of any
change in the information or facts required to be furnished on the application
for permit. This duty shall continue throughout the permit period of the
permit, and failure to comply with this division (O) shall constitute cause for
revocation or suspension of the permit.
   (P)   Execution of application. All applications for licenses and permits
shall be signed and sworn to. If the application is that of a natural person,
it shall be signed and sworn to by the person; if by a corporation, by the
officer thereof; if by a partnership, by one of the partners; and, if by an
incorporated association, by the manager or managing director thereof.
   (Q)   Persons ineligible for a license or permit. No license or permit under
this section shall be issued to an applicant who:
      (1)   Is under 18 years of age;
      (2)   Is an alien; and/or
      (3)   Has been convicted of a felony or other crime or violation
involving moral turpitude.
   (R)   Granting of license or permit; renewals. The Chief of Police and other
consultants who have investigated the initial application shall make a written
recommendation to the Council as to the issuance or non-issuance of the license
or permit. The Council may order and conduct an additional investigation as it
deems necessary. Upon receipt of the written report and recommendation by the
Chief of Police, and within 20 days thereafter, the Council shall instruct the
City Clerk to cause to be published in the official newspaper notice of a
hearing to be held by the Council. This notice shall be published at least ten
days in advance of the hearing. The notice shall set forth the day, time and
place where the hearing will be held. The notice shall also include the name of
the applicant, the premises where the business is to be conducted, the nature
of the business and other information as the Council may direct. An initial
license shall not be approved by the Council prior to the next regular meeting
of the Council following the public hearing. Not less than ten days, nor more
than 30 days, after the date for submitting a renewal application, the Council
shall hold a public hearing regarding the grantee of a renewal. Notice of the
time and place of the hearing and the fact that a renewal application shall be
considered shall be published in the official newspaper ten days in advance of
the hearing. The opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of a renewal license or permit by the Council.
   (S)   Revocation of license or permit.
      (1)   Mandatory. Any conviction of a licensee, permittee, managing
officer or controlling stockholder of licensee of a crime or violation
involving moral turpitude shall result in the revocation of any license or
permit issued hereunder.
      (2)   Discretionary. The Council may suspend or revoke a license or
permit issued under this section upon a finding of violation of any of the
conditions or provisions of this section or upon violation of any other
provision of the city code or state statute regarding adult service
establishments. The following shall be considered grounds for revocation or
suspension:
         (a)   If the licensee fails to comply with the city code or statutes
pertaining in any fashion to adult service establishments;
         (b)   If the licensee, or any of the licensee’s employees, are found
to be in possession or control of any alcoholic beverages, or narcotic drugs or
controlled substances on the premises of the adult service establishments,
possession of which is illegal as defined by statutes or the city code; and
         (c)   If any employees of an adult service establishment are convicted
of any city code provision or state statute violation arising within the adult
service establishment.
   (T)   Conditions of license or permit. No licensee or permittee shall
conduct or solicit business within the limits of the city while under
suspension or following revocation of license or permit by the Council.
   (U)   Identification name plate. The licensee of any adult service
establishment shall provide permittees employed by him or her with an
identification name plate. The name plate shall contain a photograph of the
permittee with the full name and permit number assigned to the permittee which
must be worn on the front of the outermost garment at all times during the
hours of operation of any adult service establishment.
   (V)   Licensee’s responsibility for employment of permittees. It shall be
the responsibility of the licensee and any person or employee designated by the
licensee to ensure that each person employed as a permittee shall at all times
have a valid permit pursuant to this section.
   (W)   Register of employees. The licensee of an adult service establishment
shall maintain a register containing the names and current addresses of all
persons employed at the time as permittees with their permit numbers. The
register shall be available at the adult service establishment to the
representatives of the city during regular business hours.
   (X)   Inspection. The city shall from time to time, but at least twice a
year, make an inspection of each adult service establishment in the city for
the purpose of determining compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (Y)   Construction, maintenance and operating requirements. No license to
conduct an adult service establishment shall be issued unless an inspection by
the city reveals that the establishment complies with each of the following
minimum requirements.
      (1)   Construction of rooms used for toilets, tubs, steam baths and
showers shall be made water- proof with approved water-proofed material and
shall be installed in accordance with the Building Code. Plumbing fixtures
shall be installed in accordance with the Plumbing Code.
         (a)   Steam rooms and shower compartments shall have water-proofed
floors, walls and ceilings approved by the city.
         (b)   Floors of wet and dry heat rooms shall be adequately pitched to
one or more floor drains properly connected to the sewer. (Exception: dry heat
rooms with wooden floors need not be provided with pitched floors and floor
drains.)
         (c)   A source of hot water must be available within the immediate
vicinity of dry and wet heat rooms to facilitate cleaning.
      (2)   Toilet facilities must be provided in convenient locations. When
five or more employees and patrons of different sexes are on the premises at
the same time, separate toilet facilities shall be provided for each 20 or more
employees or patrons of that sex on the premises at any one time. Urinals may
be substituted for toilets after one toilet has been provided. All toilet rooms
shall be equipped with self-closing doors opening in the direction of ingress
to the toilet room. Toilets shall be designated as to the sex accommodated
therein.
      (3)   Lavatories or wash basins shall be provided with both hot and cold
running water and installed in either the toilet room or vestibule. Lavatories
or wash basins shall be provided with soap in a dispenser and with sanitary
towels. All electrical equipment shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the Building Code.
      (4)   Every portion of an adult service establishment including
appliances, apparatus and personnel, shall be kept in a clean and sanitary
condition.
      (5)   All employees shall wear clean outer garments whose use is
restricted to the adult service establishment. Provisions of a separate
dressing room for each sex must be available on the premises with individual
lockers for each employee. Doors to the dressing rooms shall open inward and be
self- closing.
      (6)   All adult service establishments shall be provided with clean,
laundered sheets and towels in a sufficient quantity and shall be laundered
after each use thereof and stored in approved sanitary manner. No towels or
sheets shall be laundered or dried in any adult service establishment, unless
the establishment is provided with approved laundry facilities for the laundry
and drying. Approved receptacles shall be provided for the storage of soiled
linens and paper towels.
      (7)   Wet and dry heat rooms, shower compartments and toilet rooms shall
be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected each day the business is in operation.
Bathtubs shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected after each use.
      (8)   No adult service establishment licensed under the provisions of
this section shall place, publish or distribute or cause to be placed,
published or distributed, any advertisement picture or statement which is
known, or through the exercise of reasonable care should be known, to be false,
deceptive or misleading in order to induce any person to purchase or utilize
any services rendered by said adult service establishment.
§ 6.39 PAWNBROKERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction conducted by a
pawnbroker is a billable transaction except renewals, redemptions or extensions
of existing pawns on items previously reported and continuously in the
licensee’s possession, voided transactions and confiscations.
      PAWNBROKER. Any natural person, partnership or corporation, either as
principal, or agent or employee thereof, who loans money on deposit or pledge
of personal property, or other valuable thing, or who deals in the purchasing
of personal property, or other valuable thing on condition of selling the same
back again at a stipulated price, or who loans money secured by chattel
mortgage on personal property, taking possession of the property or any part
thereof so mortgaged. To the extent that a pawnbroker’s business includes
buying personal property previously used, rented or leased, or selling it on
consignment, the provisions of this chapter shall be applicable. This
definition shall exclude bondsmen and brokers.
      REPORTABLE TRANSACTION. Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in
which merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade,
or in which a pawn is renewed, extended or redeemed, or for which a unique
transaction number or identifier is generated by their point-of-sale software,
or an item is confiscated by law enforcement, is reportable, except:
         (a)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from
a merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of the merchandise; provided, the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of the purchase or consignment which describes each item, and
must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction record;
and
         (b)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods
have expired.
   (B)   License fees.
      (1)   The annual license fees for licenses issued under this chapter
shall be $1 per transaction payable to the city to be forwarded to the state
for the use of their program. No other fees shall be charged for one year after
which the City Council shall review the ordinance and make a determination as
to the appropriate payment.
      (2)   The billable transaction license fee shall reflect the cost of
processing transactions and other related regulatory expenses as determine by
the City Council, and shall be reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, annually.
Licensees shall be notified in writing 30 days before any adjustment is
implemented.
      (3)   Billable transaction fees shall be billed monthly and are due and
payable within 30 days. Failure to do so is a violation of this section.
   (C)   Application required. The requirements detailed here are intended to
provide licensing authorities adequate information to make a good decision
regarding the applicant(s):
      (1)   If the applicant is a natural person:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street resident address and
phone number of applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or
resident alien;
         (c)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name and, if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places used;
         (d)   The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a
designation, name or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified
copy of the certificate as required by M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from
time to time;
         (e)   The street address at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding five years;
         (f)   The type, name and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding five years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the proceeding five years;
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime
or violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the
applicant must furnish information as to the time, place and offense of all
such convictions;
         (h)   The physical description of the applicant; and
         (i)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(h)
above.
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners
and all information concerning each general partner required in division (C)(1)
above;
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the licensed business;
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of such certificate must be attached to the application; and
         (d)   If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the
manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information
concerning each of them required in divisions (C)(2)(a) through (C)(2)(j)
above.
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or business firm and, if
incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of
incorporation or association agreement and by-laws shall be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of
authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time to time,
must be attached;
         (c)   The name of the manager(s) or other person(s) in charge of the
business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor or agent
required in divisions (C)(1)(a) through (C)(1)(h) above; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess
of 5% in such organization or business from or who are officers of the
corporation or business firm and all information concerning the persons
required in division (C)(1) above. This division (C)(3)(d), however, shall not
apply to a corporation whose stock is publicly traded on a stock exchange and
is applying for a license to be owned and operated by it.
      (4)   For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or second- hand goods dealer “license from any other governmental unit;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied, or had revoked
or suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or second-hand dealer license
from any other governmental unit;
         (c)   The location of the business premises;
         (d)   If the applicant does not own the business premises, a true and
complete copy of the executed lease;
         (e)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
         (f)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid and, if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
         (g)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application must be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed; and
         (h)   Other information as the City Council or issuing authority may
require.
   (D)   New manager. When a licensee places a manager in charge of a business
or, if the named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes, the
licensee must complete and submit the appropriate application within 14 days.
The application must include all appropriate information required in this
section. Upon completion of an investigation of a new manager, the licensee
must pay an amount equal to the cost of the investigation to assure compliance
with this section.
   (E)   Application execution. All applications for a license under this
section must be signed and sworn to under oath or affirmation by the applicant.
If the application is that of a natural person, it must be signed and sworn to
by the person; if that of a corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a
partnership, by one of the general partners; and, if that of an unincorporated
association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
   (F)   Investigation. The Police Department must investigate into the
truthfulness of the statements set forth in the application and shall endorse
the findings thereon. The applicant must furnish to the Police Department
evidence as the inspector may reasonably require in support of the statements
set forth in the application.
   (G)   Public hearing. The Council member may request a public hearing at
Council or in the evening hours at a location in the approximate vicinity of
the proposed location.
   (H)   Persons ineligible for a license. No licenses under this section will
be issued to an applicant who is a natural person, a partnership if the
applicant has any general partner or managing partner, a corporation or other
organization if the applicant has any manager, proprietor or agent in charge of
the business to be licensed, if the applicant:
      (1)   Is a minor at the time that the application is filed;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time, and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of a licensee under this chapter as
prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
or
      (3)   Is not of good moral character or repute.
   (I)   Bond required.
      (1)   Before a license will be issued, every applicant must submit a
$1,000 bond on the forms provided by the licensing authority.
      (2)   All bonds must be conditioned that the principal will observe all
laws in relation to pawnbrokers, and will conduct business in conformity
thereto, and that the principal will account for and deliver to any person
legally entitled any goods which have come into the principal’s hand through
the principal’s business as a pawnbroker or, in lieu thereof, will pay the
reasonable value in money to the person.
      (3)   The bond shall contain a provision that no bond may be canceled,
except upon 30 days’ written notice to the city, which shall be served upon
licensing authority.
   (J)   Records required. At the time of any reportable transaction other than
renewals, extensions, redemptions or confiscations, every licensee must
immediately record in English the following information by using ink or other
indelible medium on forms or in a computerized record approved by the Police
Department:
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or pledged
therefor;
      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction and the amount due, including
monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees and charges;
      (4)   Date, time and place the item of property was received by the
licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that
distinguishes it from all other transactions in the licensee’s records;
      (5)   Full name, current residence address, current residence telephone
number, date of birth and accurate description of the person from whom the item
of the property was received, including: sex; height; weight; race; color of
eyes; and color of hair;
      (6)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; and
         (c)   Current valid photo identification card issued by another state,
province of Canada or foreign country.
      (7)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction;
      (8)   (a)   Effective 60 days from the date of notification by the Police
Department of acceptable video standards the licensee must also take a color
photograph or color video recording of:
            1.   Each customer involved in a billable transaction; and
            2.   Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial
or identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
         (b)   If a photograph is taken, it must be at least two inches in
length by two inches in width and must be maintained in a manner that the
photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. The photographs must be available to the
Public Safety Director, or the Public Safety Director’s designee, upon request.
The major portion of the photograph must include an identifiable facial image
of the person who pawned or sold the item. Items photographed must be
accurately depicted. The licensee must inform the person that he or she is
being photographed by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous
place in the premises. If a video photograph is taken, the video camera must
focus on the person paying or selling the item so as to include an identifiable
image of that person’s face. Items photographed by video must be accurately
depicted. Video photographs must be electronically referenced by time and date
so they can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. The licensee must inform the person that he
or she is being videotaped by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a
conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee must keep the exposed videotape
for three months.
      (9)   Digitized photographs. Effective 60 days from the date of
notification by the Police Department licensees must fulfill the color
photograph requirements in division (J)(8) above by submitting them as digital
images, in a format specified by the issuing authority, electronically cross-
referenced to the reportable transaction they are associated with.
Notwithstanding the digital images may be captured from required video
recordings, this provision does not alter or amend the requirements in division
(J)(8) above.
   (K)   Renewals, extensions, redemptions and confiscations. For renewals,
extensions, redemptions and confiscations the licensee shall provide the
original transaction identifier, the date of the current transaction and the
type of transaction.
   (L)   Inspection of records. The records must at all reasonable times be
open to inspection by the Police Department or Department of Licenses and
Consumer Services. Data entries shall be retained for at least three years from
the date of transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be retained a
minimum of 90 days.
   (M)   Daily reports to police.
      (1)   General. Effective no later than 60 days after the Police
Department provides licensees with the current version of the Automated Pawn
System Interchange File Specification, licensees must submit every reportable
transaction to the Police Department daily in the following manner: licensees
must provide to the Police Department all reportable transaction information by
transferring it from their computer to the Automated Pawn System via modem
using the current version of the Automated Pawn System Interchange File
Specification. All required records must be transmitted completely and
accurately after the close of business each day in accordance with standards
and procedures established by the issuing authority. Any transaction that does
not meet the Automated Pawn System Interchange File Specification must be
corrected and resubmitted the next business day. The licensee must display a
sign of sufficient size, in a conspicuous place in the premises, which informs
patrons that all transactions are reported to the Police Department daily.
      (2)   Billable transaction fees. Licensees will be charged for each
billable transaction reported to the Police Department.
         (a)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must provide the Police Department, upon
request, printed copies of all reportable transactions along with the video
tape(s) for that date, by noon the next business day.
         (b)   If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee’s
system, the licensee must continue to provide the required reports in division
(M)(2)(a) above and resubmit all transactions via modem when the error is
corrected.
         (c)   If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the
photographs required in division (J) above, the licensee must immediately take
all required photographs with a still camera, cross- reference the photographs
to the correct transaction, and make the pictures available to the Police
Department upon request.
         (d)   Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that
prevented the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon
correction of the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable
transaction from every business day the problem had existed.
         (e)   Divisions (M)(2)(a) through (M)(2)(c) above notwithstanding, the
Police Department may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay
the implementation of the daily reporting penalty.
   (N)   Receipt required. Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party
identified in every reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of
that receipt for three years. The receipt must include at least the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed business;
      (2)   The date and time the item was received by the licensee;
      (3)   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the
transaction;
      (4)   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (5)   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction;
      (6)   The amount advanced or paid;
      (7)   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges;
      (8)   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date;
      (9)   The full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number and date of birth of the pledger or seller;
      (10)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller:
         (a)   Current valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   Current valid Minnesota identification card; and
         (c)   Current valid photo driver’s license or identification card
issued by another state or province of Canada.
      (11)   Description of the pledger or seller including approximate sex,
height, weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair;
      (12)   The signature of the pledger or seller; and
      (13)   All printed statements as required by M.S. § 325J.04, subd. 2, as
it may be amended from time to time, or any other applicable statutes.
   (O)   Redemption period. (M.S. Ch. 325J, as it may be amended from time to
time, allows communities to set minimum redemption period at no less than 60
days. Ninety days is more common). Any person pledging, pawning or depositing
an item for security must have a minimum of 90 days from the date of that
transaction to redeem the item before it may be forfeited and sold. During the
ninety (90) day holding period, items may not be removed from the licensed
location, except as provided in division (V) below. Licensees are prohibited
from redeeming any item to anyone other than the period to whom the receipt was
issued or, to any person identified in a written and notarized authorization to
redeem the property identified in the receipt, or to a person identified in
writing by the pledger at the time of the initial transaction and signed by the
pledger, or with approval of the Public Safety Director, or the Public Safety
Director’s designee. Written authorization for release of property to persons
other than original pledger must be maintained along with original transaction
record in accordance with division (J) above.
   (P)   Victims to report their loss and law enforcement to make comparisons.
Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee must not be sold or
otherwise transferred for seven days from the date of the transaction. An
individual may redeem an item 72 hours after the item was received on deposit,
excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
   (Q)   Police order to hold property.
      (1)   Investigative hold. Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigate hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within 72 hours and will remain in effect for 15 days
from the date of initial notification, or until the investigative order is
canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is issued, pursuant to division
(Q)(2) below, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Order to hold. Whenever the Public Safety Director, or the Public
Safety Director’s designee, notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item
must not be sold or removed from the licensed premises until authorized to be
released by the Public Safety Director or the Public Safety Director’s
designee. The order to hold shall expire 90 days from the date it is placed
unless the Public Safety Director or the Public Safety Director’s designee
determines the hold is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
      (3)   Order to confiscate.
         (a)   If an item is identified as stolen or evidence in a criminal
case, the Public Safety Director, or the Public Safety Director’s designee,
may:
            1.   Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to
a written order from the Public Safety Director or the Public Safety Director’s
designee; or
            2.   Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in
division (Q)(2) above and leave it in the shop.
         (b)   When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall provide
identification upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the licensee the
name and phone number of the confiscating agency and investigator, and the case
number related to the confiscation.
         (c)   When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the
Public Safety Director, or the Public Safety Director’s designee, shall so
notify the licensee.
   (R)   Inspection of items. At all times during the terms of the license, the
licensee must allow law enforcement officials to enter the premises where the
licensed business is located, including all off-site storage facilities as
authorized in division (V) below, during normal business hours, except in an
emergency, for the purpose of inspecting the premises and inspecting items,
ware and merchandise and records therein to verify compliance with this section
or other applicable laws.
   (S)   Label required. Licensees must attach a label to every item at the
time it is pawned, purchased or received in inventory from any reportable
transaction. Permanently recorded on this label must be the number or name that
identifies the transaction in the shop’s records, the transaction date, the
name of the item and the description or the model and serial number of the item
as reported to the Police Department, whichever is applicable, and the date the
item is out of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be reused.
   (T)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person under the age of 18 years may pawn or sell or attempt to
pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee receive any goods
from a person under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   No licensee may receive any goods from a person of unsound mind or
an intoxicated person.
      (3)   No licensee may receive any goods, unless the seller presents
identification in the form of a valid driver’s license, a valid State of
Minnesota identification card, or current valid photo driver’s license or
identification card issued by the state or providence of residency of the
person from whom the item was received.
      (4)   No licensee may receive any item of property that possesses an
altered or obliterated serial number or operation identification number or any
item of property that has had its serial number removed.
      (5)   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit any
article of property not his or her own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge,
sell, consign, lease or deposit the property of another, whether with
permission or without; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave
or deposit any article of property in which another has a security interest;
with any licensee.
      (6)   No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, consign, leave or deposit
any article of property with any licensee shall give a false or fictitious
name; nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or out of date address
of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or altered
identification, or the identification of another; to any licensee.
   (U)   Denial, suspension or revocation. Any license under this chapter may
be denied, suspended or revoked for one or more of the following reasons:
      (1)   The proposed use does not comply with any applicable zoning code;
      (2)   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building,
building maintenance or other provision of this code of ordinances or state
law;
      (3)   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this section;
      (4)   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
      (5)   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a
license;
      (6)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the
application and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant’s
business;
      (7)   Violation within the preceding five years, of any law relating to
theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance or
operation of a business; and
      (8)   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not
qualify for a license under the terms of this section.
   (V)   Business at only one place. A license under this section authorizes
the licensee to carry on its business only at the permanent place of business
designated in the license. However, upon written request, the Public Safety
Director, or the Public Safety Director’s designee, may approve an off-site
locked and secured storage facility. The licensee shall permit inspection of
the facility in accordance with division (R) above. All provisions of this
section regarding recordkeeping and reporting apply to the facility and its
contents. Property shall be stored in compliance with all provisions of the
city code.
   (W)   Separability. Should any division, clause or other provision of this
section be declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the
decision shall not affect the validity of the section as a whole or any part
other than the part so declared invalid.
(Adopted 5-23-2006; effective 9-1-2006)
§ 6.40 SECOND-HAND GOODS DEALERS.
   (A)   Definition. SECOND-HAND GOODS DEALER means a person engaging in the
business of buying or selling or both of second-hand goods of any kind
excepting goods and merchandise defined as junk or used metal under the city
code, used, wrecked or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicles intended to
be wrecked or dismantled and goods and merchandise taken as part or full
payment for new goods and merchandise.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of, or operate as, a second-hand goods dealer without a license
therefor from the city.
      (1)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
      (2)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
      (3)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any
premises on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or
other financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
      (4)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
      (5)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any other licensed
second-hand goods dealer. The distance is to be measured from the closest side
of the existing licensed facility to the closest side of the newly licensed
structure or the premises within which secondhand goods are to be sold.
      (6)   No license shall be issued to a person for operation of a second-
hand goods dealer in a zoning district where the operation is not permitted or
otherwise allowed under
Ch. 11 of the City Code.
   (C)   Bond. An applicant for a second-hand goods dealer’s license shall file
a bond in the penal sum of $1,000. All such bonds shall be conditioned that the
principal named therein will observe all laws in relation to dealers in second-
hand goods and conduct his or her business in conformity thereto, and that he
or she will account for and deliver to any person legally entitled thereto, any
goods, wares or merchandise, article or thing, which may have come into his or
her hands through his or her business as such dealer in second-hand goods, or
in lieu thereof will pay in money to the person.
   (D)   Records required. Every person who shall be engaged in the business of
dealer in second-hand goods shall keep a book in which shall be clearly written
in ink, at the time of each purchase, an accurate account or description, in
the English language, of the goods, article or other thing purchased, the
amount of money paid therefor, the time of the receipt of the same, the name,
residence and description of the person selling the same. The book, as well as
the article purchased, shall at all reasonable times be open to the inspection
of the Mayor or any member of the police force.
   (E)   Receipts required. Every such dealer in second-hand goods purchasing
or receiving any article or personal property shall give to the person selling
the article or personal property a plain written or printed ticket or receipt
for the article or personal property so sold, showing the terms of the sale and
a copy of the entries in his or her book above required relating to the sale.
   (F)   Reports to police. Every dealer in second-hand goods, upon being
served with a written notice to do so by a member of the Police Department,
shall make out and deliver to the Chief of Police, upon blank forms to be
furnished by the Police Department by the end of the second business day
following the service exclusive of the day of the service, a legible correct
copy from the book, of all personal property or other valuable things received
or purchased during the time period specified in the notice together with the
date when purchased and the name, address and description of the person or
persons from whom the same were purchased; provided that, no person shall be
required to furnish the description of any property purchased from merchants,
manufacturers or wholesale dealers having an established place of business, or
of goods purchased at open sale from any bankrupt stock. But the property and
goods must be accompanied by a bill of sale or other evidence of open or
legitimate purchase, which must be shown to the Mayor or other member of the
police force when demanded.
   (G)   Required holding period. No personal property purchased by any dealer
in second-hand goods shall be sold or disposed of in any way within the period
of ten days next after the delivery to the Chief of Police of the copy and
statement relating thereto.
   (H)   Police order to hold property. Whenever the Chief of Police, or any
member of the police force designed by the Chief of Police, shall notify any
such dealer or dealers not to sell any property so purchased by them, the
property shall not be sold until such time as may be determined by the Chief of
Police or member of the police force designated by the Chief of Police so
requiring them to be held.
   (I)   Hours.
      (1)   From 9:00 p.m. Saturday to 7:00 a.m. Monday, no property shall be
received as a purchase by any dealer; nor shall any property, except personal
wearing apparel be sold during the hours by any dealer, nor on any other day
before 7:00 a.m., nor on any day after 9:00 p.m.
      (2)   Further, no dealer in second-hand goods shall be open for business
on the following holidays: New Year’s Day; Memorial Day; Fourth of July; Labor
Day; Thanksgiving Day; and Christmas Day.
   (J)   Minors; prohibitions. No person under the age of 18 years, except with
the written consent of the parent or guardian of the minor to each particular
transaction, shall sell any personal property or other valuable thing to any
person licensed to do business under this section. No person under the age of
18 years shall represent to any person licensed under the provisions of this
section, at the time of his or her selling of any personal property, that he or
she is 18 years of age or over.
(Am. Ord. passed 8-22-2023)
§ 6.41 TEAR GAS AND ELECTRONIC INCAPACITATION DEVICE DEALERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AUTHORIZED TEAR GAS COMPOUND. A lachrymator or any substance composed of
a mixture of a lachrymator, including chloroacetophenone,
alphachloroacetophenone, phenylchloromethylketone,
orthochlorobelzalmalononitrile or oleoresin capsicum, commonly known as tear
gas.
      ELECTRONIC INCAPACITATION DEVICES. A portable device which is designed or
intended by the manufacturer to be used, offensively or defensively, to
temporarily immobilize or incapacitate persons by means of electric pulse or
current. ELECTRONIC INCAPACITATION DEVICE does not include cattle prods,
electric fences or other electric devices which are used in agricultural,
animal husbandry or food production activities.
   (B)   License required. It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
business of, or operate as, a tear gas and electronic incapacitation device
dealer without a license therefor from the city.
   (C)   Restriction on issuance. No license shall be issued under this section
for any premises which an on-sale license for the sale of beer, wine or liquor
as defined in Ch. 5 of this code of ordinances, has been issued.
   (D)   Granting of licenses.
      (1)   Investigation and issuance. The Council with the assistance of the
Chief of Police shall investigate all facts set out in the application.
Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the
granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall
grant or refuse the application.
      (2)   Person and premises licensed; transfer. Each license shall be
issued to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license shall be transferred to another person and a license shall not be
transferred to another place without approval of the Council.
   (E)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions stated in
divisions (E)(2) and (E)(3) below and all other relevant provisions of this
section and any other provisions of the city code or state law.
      (2)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her business in accordance with this section and applicable
state laws. The act of any employee on the licensed premises in dealing with
tear gas, tear gas compounds, authorized tear gas compounds and electronic
incapacitation devices is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the
licensee shall be liable for all penalties provided by this section and the law
equally with the employee.
      (3)   Record of sales. Each licensee shall maintain in his or her place
of business a record of each sale of authorized tear gas compounds and
electronic incapacitation devices made under his or her license. The record
shall show for each sale the name and address of the purchaser, the date of
purchase, the number of each authorized tear gas compounds and electronic
incapacitation devices sold to the purchaser and the identification of the
item, and information showing that, on the basis of answers made by the
purchaser to written questions, the purchaser is eligible to make the purchase.
A sample form giving all such information shall be prepared by the City Clerk
after consultation with the Chief of Police, and a copy shall be made available
to each licensee, but the licensee may prepare his or her own form so long as
the required information appears thereon. The record shall be confidential, but
shall be available for inspection at any time during business hours by any
police officer or other properly designated officer or employee of the city.
§ 6.42 LODGING TAX.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
      LODGING. The furnishing for a consideration of lodging by a hotel, motel,
short term rental, or rooming house, except where the lodging shall be for a
continuous period of 30 days or more to the same lodger(s). The furnishing of
rooms by religious, educational, or non-profit organizations shall not
constitute LODGING for purposes of this section.
      OPERATOR. A person who provides a lodging to any person.
      RENT. The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging whether
paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services
rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge
itself.
   (B)   Imposition of tax. There is hereby imposed a tax of 3% on the rent
charged by an operator for providing lodging to any person after 1-15-1988. The
tax shall be stated and charged separately and shall be collected by the
operator from the lodger. The tax collected by the operator shall be a debt
owed by the operator to the city and shall be extinguished only by payment to
the city. In no case shall the tax imposed by this section upon an operator
exceed the amount of tax which the operator is authorized and required by this
section to collect from a lodger.
   (C)   Collections. Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this
section at the tune the rent is paid. The tax collections shall be deemed to be
held in trust by the operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be
separately stated from the rent charged for the lodging and those persons
paying the tax shall receive a receipt of payment from the operator.
   (D)   Exemptions. An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or
whose occupancy it is beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall
be granted, except upon a claim therefor made at the time the rent is collected
and a claim shall be made in writing and under penalty of perjury on forms
provided by the City Clerk. All claims shall be forwarded to the City Clerk
when the returns and collections are submitted as required by this section.
   (E)   Advertising no tax. It is unlawful for any operator to advertise or
hold out or state to the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that
the tax or any part thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator, or
that it will not be added to the rent or that, if added, it or any part thereof
will be refunded. In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax less
than $0.01 shall be considered an additional cent.
   (F)   Payment and returns.
      (1)   The taxes imposed by this section shall be paid by the operator to
the City Clerk monthly not later than 25 days after the end of the month in
which the taxes were collected. At the time of payment, the operator shall
submit a return upon the forms and containing information as the City Clerk may
require. The return shall contain the following minimum information:
         (a)   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return;
         (b)   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the
period;
         (c)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his or
her agent duly authorized in writing;
         (d)   The period covered by the return; and
         (e)   The amount of uncollectable rental charges subject to the
lodging tax.
      (2)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect to
any reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed by this section previously
paid as a result of any transaction the consideration for which became
uncollectable during the reporting period, but only in proportion to the
portion of the consideration which became uncollectable.
   (G)   Examination of return, adjustments, notices and demands. The City
Clerk shall, after return is filed, examine the same and make any investigation
or examination of the records and accounts of the person making the return
deemed necessary for determining its correctness. The tax computed on the basis
of the examination shall be the tax to be paid. If the tax due is found to be
greater than that paid, the excess shall be paid to the City Clerk ten days
after receipt of a notice thereof given either personally or sent by registered
mail to the address shown on the return. If the tax paid is greater than the
tax found to be due, the excess shall be refunded to the person who paid the
tax to the City Clerk ten days after determination of the refund.
   (H)   Refunds. Any person may apply to the City Clerk for a refund of taxes
paid for a prescribed period in excess of the amount legally due for that
period; provided that, no application for refund shall be considered unless
filed within one year after the tax was paid, or within one year from the
filing of the return, whichever period is the longer. The City Clerk shall
examine the claim and make and file written findings thereon denying or
allowing the claim in whole or in part and shall mail a notice thereof by
registered mail to the person at the address stated upon the return. If the
claim is allowed in whole or in part, the City Clerk shall credit the amount of
the allowance against any taxes due under this section from the claimant and
the balance of the allowance, if any, shall be paid by the City Clerk to the
claimant.
   (I)   Failure to file a return.
      (1)   If any operator required by this section to file a return shall
fail to do so within the time prescribed, or shall make, willfully or
otherwise, an incorrect, false or fraudulent return, the operator shall, upon
written notice and demand, file the return or corrected return within five days
of receipt of the written notice and shall, at the same time, pay any tax due
on the basis thereof. If the person shall fail to file the return or corrected
return, the City Clerk shall make a return or corrected return, for the person
from the knowledge and information as the City Clerk can obtain, and assess a
tax on the basis thereof, which tax (less any payments theretofore made on
account of the tax for the taxable period covered by the return) shall be paid
upon within five days of the receipt of written notice and demand for the
payment. Any return or assessment made by the City Clerk shall be prima facie
correct and valid, and the person shall have the burden of establishing its
incorrectness or invalidity in any action or proceeding in respect thereto.
      (2)   If any portion of a tax imposed by this section, including
penalties thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid,
the City Attorney may institute such legal action as may be necessary to
recover the amount due plus interest, penalties, the costs and disbursements of
any action.
      (3)   Upon a showing of good cause, the City Clerk may grant an operator
one 30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make payment of
taxes as required by this section; provided that, interest during the period of
extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of 10% per annum.
   (J)   Penalties.
      (1)   If any tax imposed by this section is not paid within the time
herein specified for the payment, or any extension thereof, there shall be
added thereto a specific penalty equal to 10% of the amount remaining unpaid.
      (2)   In case of any failure to make and file a return within the time
prescribed by this section, unless it is shown that the failure is not due to
willful neglect, there shall be added to the tax in addition to the 10%
specific penalty provided in division (J)(1) above, 10% if the failure is for
not more than 30 days with an additional 5% for each additional 30 days or
fraction thereof during which the failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the
aggregate. If the penalty as computed does not exceed $10, a minimum penalty of
$10 shall be assessed. The amount so added to any tax shall be collected at the
same time and the same manner and as a part of the tax unless the tax has been
paid before the discovery of the negligence, in which case the amount so added
shall be collected in the same manner as the tax.
      (3)   If any person willfully fails to file any return or make any
payment required by this section, or willfully files a false or fraudulent
return or willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any such a tax or
payment thereof, there shall also be imposed as a penalty an amount equal to
50% of any tax (less any amounts paid on the basis of the false or fraudulent
return) found due for the period to which the return related. The penalty
imposed by this division (J)(3) shall be collected as part of the tax, and
shall be in addition to any other penalties provided by this section.
      (4)   All payments received shall be credited first to penalties, next to
interest, and then to the tax due.
      (5)   The amount of tax not timely paid, together with any penalty
provided by this section, shall bear interest at the maximum rate per annum as
prescribed by M.S. § 270.0725, as it may be amended from time to time, from the
time the tax should have been paid until paid. Any interest and penalty shall
be added to the tax and be collected as part thereof.
   (K)   Administrator of tax. The City Clerk shall administer and enforce the
assessment and collection of the taxes imposed by this section. The City Clerk
shall cause to be prepared blank forms for the returns and other documents
required by this section and shall distribute the same throughout the city and
furnish them on application, but failure to receive or secure them shall not
relieve any person from any obligation required of him or her under this
section.
   (L)   Examine records. The City Clerk and those persons acting on behalf of
the City Clerk authorized in writing by the City Clerk or the city may examine
the books, papers and records of any operator in order to verify the accuracy
of any return made or, if no return was made, to ascertain the tax as provided
in this section. Every operator is directed and required to give to the person
authorized to examine the books, papers and records, the means, facilities and
opportunity for the examinations and investigations as are hereby authorized.
   (M)   Violations. It is unlawful for any person to willfully fail to make a
return required by this section; or to fail to pay the tax after written demand
for payment; or to fail to remit the taxes collected or any penalty or interest
imposed by this section after written demand for the payment; or to refuse to
permit the City Clerk or any duly authorized agents or employees to examine the
books, records and papers under his or her control; or to willfully make any
incomplete, false or fraudulent return.
   (N)   Use of proceeds. Five percent of the proceeds obtained from the
collection of taxes pursuant to this section shall be paid to the City Clerk
for costs of collection. Ninety-five percent of the proceeds obtained from the
collection of taxes pursuant to this section shall be used in accordance with
M.S. § 477A.018, as the same may be amended from time to time, to provide
funding to Iron Trail Travel and Convention Bureau for the purpose of marketing
and promoting the city as a tourist or convention center.
   (O)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made
by the City Clerk under this section may file a petition for review of such
notice, order or determination detailing the operator’s reasons for contesting
the notice, order or determination. The petition shall contain the name of the
petitioner, the petitioner’s address and the location of the lodging subject to
the order, notice or determination.
      (2)   The petition shall be filed with the City Clerk within ten days
after the notice, order or determination for which review is sought has been
mailed or served upon the person requesting review.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Clerk shall set a date and
time for a meeting with the petitioner and shall give the petitioner at least
five days’ prior written notice of the date, time and place of the meeting.
      (4)   At the meeting, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to
show cause why the notice, order or determination should be modified or
withdrawn. If the meeting does not result in the matter being resolved to the
satisfaction of the petitioner, the petitioner may appeal to the Council.
      (5)   A petitioner seeking to appeal a decision to the Council must file
a written notice of appeal with the Council in care of the City Clerk, within
ten days after the City Clerk’s decision following the meeting described in
division (O)(4) above has been mailed to the petitioner. The matter will
thereupon be placed on the Council agenda as soon as is practical. At least
five days prior to the hearing before the Council, the City Clerk shall prepare
and serve on the petitioner a memorandum of proposed findings of fact and
conclusions of law. A copy of the memorandum shall be presented to the Council
at the time of the appeal hearing. The Council shall then review the proposed
findings of fact and conclusions to determine whether they are correct. Upon a
determination by the Council that findings and conclusions are incorrect, the
Council may modify, reverse or affirm the decision of the City Clerk based upon
an application of this division (O) and the evidence presented.
(Am. Ord. passed 2-14-2023)
§ 6.43 TAXI LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, co-partnership or corporation shall hereafter use or
operate or cause to be used or operated any motor vehicle carrying passengers
for hire over or upon any public highway or street in the city, except trunk
highways under the control of the state, unless the person, co-partnership or
corporation shall first pay the license fee herein prescribed and secure a
license from the city so to do in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
   (B)   Application for the operation of a motor vehicle for hire shall be
made in writing and filed with the City Clerk and shall state the kind of
vehicle to be used, the vehicle identification number and the state license
number, the seating capacity of the vehicle, the name of the owner or licensee
and the nature of business proposed to be done. Each application shall be duly
verified and shall be accompanied by a certificate signed by at least two
resident taxpayers of the city, stating that they are acquainted with the
applicant and that he or she is a fit and proper person to engage in the
business.
   (C)   No such license shall be issued until the applicant shall obtain a
policy of insurance through an insurance company authorized to do business
under the laws of the state, insuring the person, co-partnership or corporation
operating the vehicles against loss by reason of any damages that may result to
any person or persons from the operation of the motor vehicle. The policy of
insurance shall insure the operator in at least the minimum amount required by
state statutes against claims for damage by reason of injuries to any one
person injured or killed through the operation of the motor vehicle. The policy
of insurance shall guarantee payment of any final judgment rendered against the
owner or licensee of the motor vehicle within the limits hereinbefore provided,
because of injury or damage resulting to any person or persons from the
negligent operation of the motor vehicle. It shall be in a form satisfactory to
the City Council which may require the licensee to replace the policy of
insurance if the Council shall, at any time, deem it or the insurer thereon
unsatisfactory or insufficient. The default or refusal of the licensee to
comply with any such order of the Council shall be ground for revocation of the
license of the licensee.
      (1)   As part of the application process, all parties seeking taxi
licensure in the city must pass the state’s Department of Transportation’s
annual vehicle inspection. As taxi vehicles do not qualify for a DOT number,
they cannot be issued a state inspection decal.
      (2)   The city shall issue a taxi number identification sticker annually,
once the vehicle passes the state safety inspection and provides the proper
insurance certificate. This sticker must be adhered to the driver’s side rear
window to the vehicle within five days of issuance.
      (3)   All taxi drivers must be at least 18 years old and pass a criminal
background check by the city’s Police Department.
      (4)   The city shall issue a photo identification card for each driver,
which must be displayed in a visible place in the taxi while the driver is on
duty.
      (5)   The city will charge a non-refundable fee, set by City Council
resolution, for each background check that is completed for potential taxi
drivers.
   (D)   The insurance policy herein provided or a duly authenticated copy
thereof shall be filed with the City Clerk; and shall contain a provision that
it cannot be cancelled by the insurer without notice to the city. A current
insurance card must be displayed in each taxi.
(Amended 5-1-2012)
   (E)   License fees.
      (1)   Annual, non-proratable fees for each taxi license shall be set in
accordance with §
6.04.
      (2)   All taxi licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (F)   In any case in which any one person, co-partnership or corporation
shall apply for license for more than one such motor vehicle, the person, co-
partnership or corporation shall not be required to submit separate policies of
insurance for each motor vehicle if it shall file with the city a blanket
insurance policy covering all vehicles which gives to the licensee and to any
person or persons injured because of the negligent operation of any motor
vehicle at least the same amount of protection which is required by the
provisions of this section.
   (G)   Upon compliance with the provisions hereof, the City Council, if it
deems the applicant a fit person to engage in the business, may grant the
license. Upon the license being granted by the Council, the Clerk shall issue
the same and shall furnish to the licensee for each vehicle so licensed
containing the number of the license and the period for which the vehicle is so
licensed. The license shall, at all times, be displayed on the driver’s side
rear window in the motor vehicle. All licensed taxis must be clearly marked as
a taxi, with the business name identified on both sides of the vehicle.
(Amended 5-1-2012)
   (H)   This section shall not apply to the Dial-A-Ride service.
   (I)   Any license granted hereunder may be revoked by the Council at any
time.
   (J)   (1)   Taxi companies found to be in violation of this section within a
24-month period shall be administratively fined as follows:
         (a)   First offense: $75;
         (b)   Second offense: $200; and
         (c)   Third offense: $250 and revocation of license for one year.
      (2)   If the business gets their license back and receives another
violation, the license will be revoked permanently. Failure to pay the fine
within 30 days will result in suspension of license. Before any license is
suspended or revoked under this section, the licensee shall be given notice of
the accused violation and shall be given the right to request a hearing on the
matter and to appeal the findings of the hearing on suspension or revocation.
In the case of an administrative penalty, the hearing for the penalty may be
the same as for the suspension or revocation.
(Amended 5-1-2012)
   (K)   This section shall be in force and effect from and after 1-1-2000. All
licenses issued under any other ordinance of the city to any person to operate
any motor vehicle for hire within the city shall be and hereby are revoked on
that date.
(Adopted 12-14-1999)
§ 6.44 TRANSPORTATION NETWORK COMPANIES.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No person or entity shall operate a TNC within the city without
first having obtained a TNC license in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   No vehicle shall be used as a TNC vehicle within the city except by
a TNC endorsed driver authorized by a licensed TNC.
      (3)   A TNC vehicle shall be in compliance with all applicable
requirements of this section at all times when its operator is active on the
digital network.
      (4)   A TNC vehicle operated by a driver endorsed by a TNC not licensed
by the city may enter the city to discharge passengers whose trip originated
outside city limits.
      (5)   A TNC license issued pursuant to this section is non-transferable
and terminates upon the sale, transfer, change of ownership or bankruptcy of
the TNC.
   (B)   License application. An application for a TNC license or renewal of a
TNC license shall be filed with the City Clerk upon forms provided by the city.
Such applications shall be verified by the applicant or its duly authorized
agent under oath and shall include, without limitation, the following
information:
      (1)   If an individual or sole proprietorship: the name, address,
telephone number and email address of the applicant.
      (2)   If a partnership, corporation, limited liability company or other
entity: the name, business address, telephone number and email of the
applicant, along with the name, address, telephone number and email for the
applicant’s authorized agent as defined by this section.
      (3)   A description of the distinctive trade dress TNC vehicles shall
display at all times while active on the TNC dispatch system, along with
verification that the trade dress satisfies the requirements of division (T) of
this section.
      (4)   Such further information as the Chief of Police or his or her
licensing designee may reasonably require.
   (C)   License issuance. Before a TNC license is issued to any person or
entity by the City Clerk, the application shall first be submitted to the City
Clerk for approval or denial. The City Clerk shall not deny a license except
for good cause. If the application is denied by the City Clerk, the applicant
may, within ten days, appeal such denial to the City Council, which may by
resolution approve the issuance of the license.
   (D)   License fees; expiration dates.
      (1)   Annual, non-proratable fees for each TNC license shall be set in
accordance with §
6.04 of this chapter.
      (2)   All TNC licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (E)   Insurance required.
      (1)   TNC and TNC endorsed drivers shall be in compliance with the
insurance requirements of M.S. § 65B.472, as it may be amended from time to
time, at all times while providing prearranged rides or operating pursuant to
any TNC license issued by the city.
      (2)   Prior to issuance of any TNC license under this chapter, the
licensee shall submit proof of insurance to the licensing official showing
satisfaction of the requirements of this section and applicable state law.
      (3)   TNC drivers shall carry proof of insurance satisfying this section
at all times while engaged in providing prearranged rides, and shall produce
proof of said insurance upon demand of an officer of the law.
   (F)   Transportation Network Company agents; appointment of City Clerk for
service process.
      (1)   All TNCs must maintain a duly-authorized agent, as defined in this
chapter, for service of process and receipt of any required notices from the
city.
      (2)   TNCs shall provide current and updated contact information for the
designated agent or agents responsible for receiving service of process and
official notices from the city, responding to service-related investigations or
complaints, cooperating with law enforcement investigations or inquiries, and
managing record or audit requests from the licensing official in accordance
with this chapter.
   (G)   Vehicle standards and inspection.
      (1)   Minimum vehicle standards; quality control. TNCs shall solicit
feedback on vehicle quality after each trip. The TNC must implement a policy of
evaluating and investigating negative feedback received about the condition of
a vehicle and provide the licensing official with a copy of such policy. A TNC
vehicle shall not be authorized or endorsed to provide prearranged rides within
the city unless the vehicle is in compliance with all applicable local, state
and federal laws respecting motor vehicles.
      (2)   All vehicles shall, without limitation, further comply with the
following:
         (a)   Be in a thoroughly safe condition for the transportation of
passengers. Every vehicle shall comply with all local, state and federal
regulations relating to vehicle equipment, maintenance and safety. Further, all
vehicles shall have a model year of ten years or less or 150,000 miles (as
measured from June 30 of the calendar year following the model year);
         (b)   Be equipped with the prominently displayed and distinctive trade
dress required by this section;
         (c)   Be equipped with at least four doors and meet all applicable
federal motor vehicle safety standards for vehicles of its size, type and
proposed use;
         (d)   Be equipped with a manufacturer’s rated seated capacity of seven
persons or less, including the TNC driver;
         (e)   Be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition with regard to
both the interior and exterior of the vehicle;
         (f)   Be substantially free from damage, dents, defects or unpainted
or rusted metal. Any vehicle that is damaged, whether due to negligence,
intentional conduct or other event, shall within 30 days of such damaging
event, be repaired and restored to the standards set forth herein;
         (g)   Be equipped with windows in the rear and side of the vehicle
complying with all applicable state or federal laws regulating size, dimensions
and clarity;
         (h)   Be equipped with seat belts for all seating positions, which
seat belts shall be openly displayed and readily available for use by
occupants; and
         (i)   Be in compliance with the vehicle safety requirements set forth
in M.S. §§ 169.46 through 169.75, as they may be amended from time to time, if
applicable and as may be amended.
            1.   Annual inspection. Every TNC endorsed vehicle shall be
inspected annually by an Automotive Service Excellence (ASE) certified mechanic
to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section.
            2.   Inspection reports. The Chief of Police shall approve a TNC
vehicle inspection report for use in completing the annual inspections required
by this section. The report shall designate a category of equipment and body
defects as “out of service” defects. TNCs shall not permit the provision of
prearranged rides in vehicles bearing “out of service” defects until the
defects are corrected.
   (H)   Seating capacity; passengers to ride on seats only. The passenger
seating capacity of any TNC vehicle licensed under this section shall be no
more than seven. No TNC driver shall carry any passengers or permit any
passengers to ride anywhere except on the seats of the vehicle.
   (I)   Maximum passenger load. No person operating a TNC vehicle shall carry
a greater number of passengers than the manufacturer’s rated seating capacity
for such vehicle.
   (J)   Receiving and discharging passengers. No TNC vehicle shall take on or
discharge passengers while in motion. All passengers shall be received and
discharged at the curb or as near thereto as the vehicle can approach.
Passengers shall be allowed to alight or board a TNC vehicle on the curb side
only.
   (K)   Discrimination, refusal to transport orderly person prohibited;
accessibility.
      (1)   No TNC driver shall refuse to transport any orderly person or
persons.
      (2)   The TNC shall adopt a policy of non-discrimination on the basis of
destination, race, color, national origin, religious belief or affiliation,
sex, disability, age, sexual orientation, or gender identity with respect to
riders and potential riders and notify TNC drivers of such policy.
      (3)   TNC drivers shall comply with all applicable laws regarding non-
discrimination against riders or potential riders on the basis of destination,
race, color, national origin, religious belief or affiliation, sex, disability,
age, sexual orientation, or gender identity.
      (4)   TNC drivers shall comply with all applicable laws relating to
accommodation of service animals.
      (5)   A TNC shall not impose additional charges for providing services to
persons with physical disabilities because of those disabilities.
   (L)   TNC vehicle; commercial advertising. No TNC or TNC driver shall place
commercial advertising material on or about any TNC vehicle in such a manner so
as to obstruct the operator’s vision or otherwise interfere with the safe
operation of the vehicle.
   (M)   Solicitation prohibited. No TNC driver shall solicit business for any
hotel or motel, or attempt to divert patronage from one hotel or motel to
another.
   (N)   Smoking, sale of liquor and use of TNC vehicle for prostitution
prohibited. At any time while engaged in providing a prearranged ride, no
person operating a TNC vehicle shall:
      (1)   Smoke, or permit the smoking of, a pipe, cigar, cigarette or
electronic cigarette (e-cigarette). “Smoking” means inhaling or exhaling smoke
or vapor from any lighted pipe, cigar, cigarette, e-cigarette or any other
lighted or vaporized liquid, tobacco or plant product. Smoking also includes
carrying a lighted or active cigar, cigarette, pipe, e-cigarette or any other
lighted or active liquid, tobacco or plant product intended for inhalation;
      (2)   Sell or offer to sell any alcoholic beverages to any person; and
      (3)   Solicit business for any house of ill repute or permit any person
to occupy or use his or her vehicle for the purpose of prostitution, or direct
or transport or offer to direct or transport any person with knowledge or
having reasonable cause to know that such directing or transporting is for the
purposes of prostitution.
   (O)   Street hails, use of taxicab stands prohibited. TNC drivers shall not
solicit or accept street hails or occupy or use taxicab stands established
pursuant to the city code, as may be amended.
   (P)   Zero tolerance for drug or alcohol use.
      (1)   No TNC driver shall operate a TNC vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol or a narcotic drug, and no TNC driver shall drink, ingest or be in
possession of any alcoholic beverage or narcotic drug while engaged in such
operation.
      (2)   The TNC shall implement a zero drug and alcohol tolerance policy
regarding a TNC driver’s activities while active on the TNC dispatch network or
engaged in supplying prearranged rides. The zero tolerance policy shall address
the use of drugs or alcohol while a TNC driver is providing prearranged rides
or is logged onto the TNC’s digital network but is not providing prearranged
rides, and the TNC shall provide notice of this policy on its website, as well
as procedures to report a complaint about a driver with whom a rider was
matched and whom the rider reasonably suspects was under the influence of drugs
or alcohol during the course of the trip.
      (3)   Upon receipt of a credible rider complaint alleging a violation of
the zero tolerance policy, the TNC shall immediately suspend such TNC driver’s
access to its digital network, and shall conduct an investigation into the
reported incident. The suspension shall last the duration of the investigation
and be made permanent upon a finding of any violation of this section.
      (4)   The TNC shall maintain records relevant to the enforcement of this
requirement for a period of at least three years from the date that a rider
complaint is received by the TNC.
   (Q)   TNC driver requirements; license, identity and endorsement required
prior to start. No person shall drive a TNC vehicle, and no person or entity
holding a TNC license or TNC vehicle license shall permit the TNC vehicle
covered by such license to be driven, unless the driver of such TNC vehicle
shall have then in force a valid driver’s license.
   (R)   Criminal background check; driving record and offenses.
       (1)   Before allowing a driver to accept trip requests through a TNC’s
digital network:
         (a)   The individual shall submit information to the TNC including, at
a minimum, information regarding his or her past and present legal name or
names, address, age, driver’s license status, driving history, motor vehicle
registration, automobile liability insurance, and any other information
required by the TNC or the provisions of this section;
         (b)   The TNC shall conduct, or have a third party conduct, a local
and national criminal background check for each driver that shall include
searches of:
            1.   The offenses listed and described in M.S. § 299C.67, subd. 2,
as it may be amended from time to time;
            2.   The applicant’s driving record in all states where the
applicant has held a driver’s license in the past five years;
            3.   A multi-state/multi-jurisdiction criminal records locator or
other similar commercial nationwide database with validation (primary source
search); and
            4.   A national sex offender registry database.
         (c)   The TNC shall obtain and review a driving history and criminal
background check report or reports for all applying drivers reflecting the
results of the above search(es).
      (2)   The TNC shall not permit an individual to act as a TNC driver on
its digital network who:
         (a)   Has had more than three moving violations in the prior three-
year period, or one major violation in the prior three-year period (including,
but not limited to, attempting to evade the police, reckless driving, or
driving on a suspended or revoked license);
         (b)   Has been convicted, within the past seven years, of driving
under the influence of drugs or alcohol, fraud, sexual offenses, use of a motor
vehicle to commit a felony, a crime involving property damage, and/or theft,
acts of violence, or acts of terror;
         (c)   Is a match in the national sex offender registry database;
         (d)   Does not possess a valid driver’s license;
         (e)   Does not possess proof of registration for the motor vehicle(s)
used to provide prearranged rides;
         (f)   Does not possess proof of automobile liability insurance for the
motor vehicle(s) used to provide prearranged rides; or
         (g)   Is not at least 19 years of age.
   (S)   Identification of TNC vehicles and drivers. A TNC’s mobile application
or website shall display a picture of the TNC driver and identify the make and
model of the TNC vehicle, including license plate number, that the TNC driver
will use to supply the prearranged ride before the prearranged ride begins.
   (T)   Distinctive trade dress.
      (1)   A TNC vehicle shall display consistent and distinctive signage or
emblem at all times while the driver is active on the TNC dispatch system or
engaged in supplying prearranged rides. The distinctive signage or emblem shall
be sufficiently large and color contrasted:
         (a)   As to be readable during daylight hours at a distance of at
least 50 feet; and
         (b)   Reflective, illuminated or otherwise patently visible so as to
be seen in darkness.
      (2)   Acceptable forms of distinctive signage include, but are not
limited to, symbols or signs on vehicle doors, roofs, windshield, or grilles.
Magnetic or other removable distinctive signage is acceptable. Licensees shall
file an illustration of their distinctive trade dress with the City Clerk.
      (3)   No TNC or TNC driver shall operate or permit the operation of any
TNC vehicle unless the trade dress satisfies the minimum requirements of this
section and matches the information supplied with the TNC application.
      (4)   With the written approval of the City Clerk, subject to review by
the City’s Chief Administrative Officer, a TNC may amend its previous
application form to update the information provided in satisfaction of the
requirements of this section.
   (U)   TNC service charges and fare rates; receipts.
      (1)   Fares; pre-ride estimates. Transportation network vehicles shall be
for hire at a fare rate or structure that is available to the passenger for
review in advance of requesting the trip. The TNC must provide a passenger with
the total fare, or a means to obtain a fare estimate under the current fare
structure, inclusive of any dynamic pricing, that will be applied to the trip
prior to the passenger’s acceptance.
      (2)   Within a reasonable period of time following the completion of a
trip, a TNC shall transmit an electronic receipt to the rider or riders
listing:
         (a)   The origin and destination of the trip;
         (b)   The total time and distance of the trip;
         (c)   An itemization of the total fare paid, including base fare and
any additional charges, if applicable;
         (d)   The driver’s first name;
         (e)   The vehicle license plate number; and
         (f)   A means of contacting the TNC for customer service.
   (V)   Records, city authority to audit.
      (1)   A TNC shall maintain the following records applicable to the
operation of its digital network within the city for a minimum of three years:
         (a)   Individual trip records for prearranged rides originating within
the city;
         (b)   TNC vehicle inspection reports obtained from ASE certified
mechanics pursuant to the requirements of this section;
         (c)   Documentation evidencing insurance coverage obtained pursuant to
the requirements of this section;
         (d)   Records reflecting complaints received by the TNC in relation to
any of its endorsed drivers supplying a majority of his or her prearranged
rides within the city including, without limitation, complaints resulting in an
investigation in according with division (X) of this section, temporary or
permanent removal of the driver from the TNC’s network, or other corrective
action; and
         (e)   Records reflecting the TNC’s suspension or termination of its
relationship with any endorsed drivers supplying a majority of his or her
prearranged rides within the city for violations of any of the provisions of
this chapter or any other applicable local, state or federal law.
      (2)   A TNC shall maintain records obtained pursuant to the requirements
of divisions (Q) and (Q)(1) of this section at all times during a TNC driver’s
affiliation with the TNC and, thereafter, for a minimum of three years
following the date on which the driver’s affiliation with the TNC ends.
      (3)   Upon request, any or all records listed herein shall be submitted
for inspection to the city’s designated licensing official at such times, and
in such format and manner, as may be prescribed by the licensing official.
      (4)   The licensee agrees to provide the city, with ten business days
from the date of request or appropriate service of process, if applicable, any
and all records pertaining to specific complaints, criminal or administrative
proceedings arising out of a TNC or TNC driver’s operations within the city.
      (5)   Data provided to the city pursuant to this section is governed by
the provisions of the Minnesota Government Data Practices Act, being M.S. Ch.
13, as it may be amended from time to time. To the extent permitted by law,
data provided by the licensee to the city pursuant to this section shall be
deemed not public data.
   (W)   License suspension and revocation.
      (1)   The Chief Administrative Officer of the city is hereby given
authority to suspend any license issued under this section for cause for a
period of not more than 30 days. A hearing upon five days’ notice to the
licensee shall be required prior to such a suspension.
      (2)   The Chief Administrative Officer of the city is hereby given
authority to revoke any license issued under this section for cause after
hearing upon five days’ notice to the licensee. The licensee may, within 30
days, appeal the revocation to the City Council, which shall give the licensee
an opportunity to be heard at its next regular meeting following the appeal.
The City Council may, at such meeting, reinstate the license by resolution.
      (3)   Sufficient cause for suspension or revocation shall include, but
not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Violation of any of the provisions of this section by a TNC; and
         (b)   Violation of any other local, state or federal law that relates
to the licensed business by a TNC.
   (X)   Complaint investigation.
      (1)   Prior to TNC license suspension or revocation affecting all TNC
endorsed drivers operating in the city, the Chief Administrative Officer may,
but is not required to, at his or her discretion, request a licensee to
investigate whether a complaint or service-related issue may be resolved, in
accordance with the provisions of this section or a TNC’s own internal policies
and procedures, by suspending the access of one or more endorsed drivers from
the TNC’s digital network or other appropriate means.
      (2)   Within ten business days from receipt of a complaint or request
from the city’s Chief Administrative Officer seeking investigation pursuant to
this section, a TNC shall provide the city with written notice of its
determination.
      (3)   Each TNC shall provide the city with contact information for the
duly-authorized agent designated to receive and respond to requests under this
section.
   (Y)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Any person violating any section of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and may be fined as provided in §
6.43(J). All city approvals and licenses shall be suspended until the violation
(s) of this chapter are corrected. Nothing in this section shall preclude the
city from concurrently seeking the enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter in a court of competent jurisdiction by civil action to enjoin any
continuing violation(s) in accordance with subsection (2) below;
      (2)   A violation of this chapter is deemed a per se public nuisance
authorizing the city to seek abatement through injunctive relief or any other
appropriate remedy from a court of competent jurisdiction. All city approvals
and licenses shall be suspended until abatement of the nuisance condition(s).
Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from concurrently seeking the
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter by criminal prosecution or
administrative fine.
§ 6.45 MASSAGE THERAPY ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMPLOYEE. A person who is paid an hourly wage by a licensee for
performing work in licensee’s massage establishment.
      MASSAGE.
         (a)   Scientific manipulation of the soft tissue of the body of one
person with the hands of another person for the purpose of relaxation or
therapy.
         (b)   The practice of MASSAGE is declared to be distinct from the
practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, nursing, physical
therapy or podiatry by persons duly licensed or registered in the state to
practice such, and does not include athletic directors and trainers employed by
a school or bona fide athletic team, beauty culturists or barbers.
      MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any business establishment having a fixed place of
business where any person engages in, or permits another person to be engaged
in, the massage of clients, including health clubs, beauty salons, saunas and
steam baths that offer massage therapy, but excluding residential premises
where massage therapy if practiced as a home occupation.
   (B)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of operating
a massage establishment either exclusively or in connection with any other
business enterprise without first obtaining a license for each massage
establishment.
   (C)   Application for license. Application for a massage establishment
license shall be made to the City Clerk on forms supplied by the Clerk. It
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   A description of services to be provided;
      (2)   A description and location of the premises to be licensed;
      (3)   The full names and addresses of the property owner, business owner,
lessee and manager, operator and the date of birth of each;
      (4)   If applicant is a corporation, the names and residence addresses of
each of the officers and directors of the corporation and of each stockholder
owning more than 10% of the stock of the corporation, and the address of the
corporation itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment;
      (5)   If applicant is a partnership, the names and residence addresses of
each of the partners, including limited partners, and the address of the
partnership itself, if different from the address of the massage establishment;
      (6)   Whether any of the aforementioned individuals have ever been
convicted of any crime or offense other than a traffic offense and, if so, a
description of the offense as to time, place, date and disposition;
      (7)   Whether any of the aforementioned individuals has ever held a
license to run a massage establishment or similar business in another
jurisdiction and, if so, whether the license was ever revoked, suspended or
denied; and
      (8)   The method of payment under which massage therapists are paid and
the economic basis upon which massage therapists are paid.
   (D)   License fee and license year; separate license required for each place
of business; display of license. The annual license fee shall be set at $50. A
separate license shall be obtained for each place of business. The licensee
shall display the license in a prominent place on the licensed premises at all
times. A license, unless revoked, is for the one year, or part thereof, for
which it has been issued.
   (E)   Issuance.
      (1)   No license under this section shall be issued unless it is approved
by the City Clerk upon advice from the Police Department and unless the
establishment has passed fire and health inspections. The City Clerk shall not
approve any license if he or she has reasonable grounds to believe:
         (a)   The granting of the license would result in violations of the
law;
         (b)   The license application contains false or misleading statements;
and
         (c)   Other good cause exists for denying the license.
      (2)   If the Chief of Police or City Clerk finds that they do not have
adequate information to evaluate a license application, they may hold the
application for up to 30 days for further investigation. During this period
they may direct the applicant, manager or agent to appear at any reasonable
time and place to give, under oath, information concerning the application. No
license shall be granted to any applicant who refuses to appear and cooperate
with the investigation.
   (F)   Massage therapists; employment relationships; licenses required.
      (1)   No massage establishment licensee shall permit any person to
perform a massage in the licensee’s massage establishment unless the person is
an employee of the licensee and unless the person is licensed as a massage
therapist as provided herein. No person shall massage another for compensation
unless the person has obtained a massage therapist license as provided herein
and unless the person is the licensee of the massage establishment or an
employee of the licensee of the massage establishment or is lawfully engaging
in a massage practice as a home occupation.
      (2)   Massage therapist licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk after
approval by the Chief of Police. Applicant must be 18 years of age or over, of
good moral character and eligible for a license under the terms of M.S. Ch.
364, as it may be amended from time to time, and the provisions of this
section. The applicant must also have successfully completed a course of study
in massage of not less than 500 hours from a recognized school where the
theory, method, profession or work of massage is taught; except that, any
person licensed as a massage therapist before 7-15-2001 may continue to receive
a license notwithstanding the fact the therapist has less than 500 hours of
training. The applicant shall submit a diploma, certificate or other written
proof of educational attainment with the application, including the name and
address of the school.
      (3)   An application for the license shall be filed with the City Clerk,
which application shall state the name, address, date of birth, criminal record
and other pertinent information as required by the Chief of Police. Upon
receipt of the application, the Chief of Police shall cause all necessary
investigations to be made so that he or she may approve or disapprove of the
license.
      (4)   The fee for the license shall be set in accordance with division
(D) above. The license year shall be from January 1 to December 31 and shall
not be prorated.
   (G)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No massage establishment shall:
         (a)   Remain open between 1:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any day;
         (b)   Hire as a massage therapist any person who is not licensed
pursuant to this section;
         (c)   Require or permit any massage therapist to pay any fee, rent or
sum of money for the right to perform massages in the massage establishment or
require massage therapists to pay any other fee as a term or condition of
employment;
         (d)   Allow any alcoholic beverages to be kept, sold, dispensed or
consumed on the premises; and
         (e)   Permit massages to be given in any cubicle, room or booth with a
locking door.
      (2)   No massage therapist shall:
         (a)   Massage or offer to massage the genital area of any customer;
and/or
         (b)   Perform or offer to perform any act prohibited by the city code.
   (H)   Massage therapists not to live on licensed premises.
      (1)   No massage therapist shall maintain his or her living quarters on
the licensed premises of any massage establishment.
      (2)   No license shall be granted to any massage therapist who does not
maintain separate living quarters from the rooms where massages are performed,
unless the massage therapist is lawfully engaging in a massage practice as a
home occupation.
   (I)   License to maintain order on premises. The licensee, or, in the case
of a corporate licensee, the manager of any massage establishment, shall
personally supervise the business operations and shall have a non-delegable
duty to ensure that no acts of prostitution, sexual misconduct or other
violations of this section occur on the licensed premises. To this end, every
act done in violation of this section on the licensed premises by an employee,
manager or agent of the licensee, shall also be deemed to be an act of the
licensee.
   (J)   Suspension and revocation of licenses. The City Clerk may revoke or
suspend any license issued pursuant to this section if, after giving the
licensee an opportunity to be held on the matter, he or she finds:
      (1)   The licensee has violated a provision of this section or any other
law relating to the conduct of its operation including, but not limited to,
state, federal or local laws on morals, prostitution, health, fire safety or
liquor;
      (2)   The licensee secured the license through misrepresentation or fraud
or misstated any material fact in the application;
      (3)   Failure of the licensee to cooperate with police, fire or health
officers in any investigation relating to their operations or failure to admit
police officers into the establishment at any time when people are present in
the establishment;
      (4)   The establishment is operated in such a way as to endanger public
health or safety; and/or
      (5)   The establishment is operated in such a way as to constitute a
public nuisance.
   (K)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by a licensing decision of the City
Clerk under this section may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing
written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within 15 days after the decision
is rendered.
(Adopted 2-22-2005)
§ 6.46 FIRE CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AUTHORIZED AGENT. An individual with legal authority and capable of
executing documents for the sale of the buildings and authority over the
proceeds of such sale.
      BUILDING. Any structure intended for supporting or sheltering any use or
occupancy, including the land surrounding the structure. If the building is a
multi-unit residential dwelling, a hotel or motel, or a commercial or office
building, the term “building” means only the portion of the building within or
outside the structure in which a nuisance is maintained or permitted; such as a
dwelling unit, room, suite of rooms, office, common area, storage area, garage,
or parking area.
      COMMERCIAL BUILDING. Any nonresidential structure, the surrounding land
and accessory use structures.
      FIRE CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document or emblem issued by the City
Fire Chief indicating the existing structure complies with all state and local
safety codes allowing its use as a commercial building or for residential
occupancy.
      FIRE CHIEF. The City Fire Chief and his or her designee, including any
enforcement officer under his or her supervision or direction, or other duly
authorized representative. The fire certificate of occupancy program shall be
issued under the authority of the Fire Chief.
      INTERESTED PARTY. Any known lessee or tenant of a building or affected
portion of a building; or any known agent of an owner, lessee, or tenant; or
any other known person.
      NUISANCE ACTIVITY. Acts constituting a nuisance under M.S. § 617.81,
subd. 2, or two or more violations within a period of 12 months of nuisance
provisions of this code.
      OWNER. The person, firm, corporation or other entity listed in the
records on file in the Recorder’s office as holding fee title to the building.
For purposes of notice only, the term “owner” includes the owner’s authorized
agent or other person in control of the premises.
      OWNER-OCCUPIED. Residential dwellings which are the principal residence
of the owner of the building and in which the owner resides.
      PARTIAL FIRE CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the City Fire
Department indicating that a portion of an existing structure complies with all
state and local safety codes allowing its use as a commercial building or for
residential occupancy. The partial fire certificate of occupancy shall describe
specifically which portion of the building is approved for occupancy.
      PROPERTY MANAGER. An individual with the legal authority to make and act
on decisions of tenancy, building maintenance and repairs relating to
applicable safety codes.
      RECORDER’S OFFICE. The county department of property records and
taxation, or its division which maintains title and property records, and any
successor agency or department thereof.
      RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. Any room, or space, in any dwelling designed or
used for residential occupancy by one or more persons who are not the owner.
      RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY. Occupancy in a building or portion thereof, for
residential purposes, used or intended to be used for living, sleeping, or
cooking or eating purposes.
      SAFETY CODE. Any fire, housing, health, safety, zoning, property
maintenance, or other similar code, law and ordinance, promulgated or enacted
by the United States, the state, the county and the city, or any lawful agency
or department thereof, which are applicable to a building in such city.
   (B)   Required; violations constitute misdemeanor.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, all buildings in the
city that are utilized to conduct business or commerce are required to have and
maintain a fire certificate of occupancy, issued by the Fire Chief or his or
her designee. The certificate shall be an indication that the building meets,
at the time of issuance and approval, all relevant safety codes to maintain the
health, safety and welfare of the building’s occupants and the general public.
         (a)   Owner-occupied single-family houses, owner-occupied portions of
duplexes, and owner-occupied condominium units shall be exempted from the
requirement to have and maintain a fire certificate of occupancy.
         (b)   A building or portion thereof which receives a certificate of
occupancy from the city’s building official upon completion of construction or
major rehabilitation shall simultaneously receive a fire certificate of
occupancy from the Fire Chief if its use or occupancy so requires.
         (c)   Buildings which have a change in use or occupancy shall become
subject to the fire certificate of occupancy requirement.
         (d)   Commercial buildings and residential occupancies shall be
subject to the ongoing requirement to maintain a fire certificate of occupancy.
These buildings shall be issued fire certificates of occupancy and shall be
subject to regular inspection, based on the date of the building’s last
complete certificate of occupancy inspection, subject to the terms of this
section.
      (2)   It is a misdemeanor to rent or lease, or permit the occupancy of, a
building or structure or portion thereof for use as a commercial building which
does not have a fire certificate of occupancy.
   (C)   Illegal occupancy. No business shall occupy any building which does
not have a fire certificate of occupancy.
   (D)   Other city licenses and permits. An ongoing failure to comply with any
requirement of this section shall provide a sufficient basis for the denial of
any license or permit otherwise required under this code.
   (E)   Appeal to Administrative Review Board. Orders of the Fire Chief or his
or her designee relating to fire certificates of occupancy are subject to the
procedures for appeal set forth in this code.
   (F)   Applicability of other laws. Nothing in this section is intended to
waive, replace or amend the applicability or enforcement of any other law,
ordinance or regulation applicable to commercial buildings and residential
dwellings, including, but not limited to, zoning, nuisance abatement, or
licensing ordinances.
   (G)   Issuance and renewal.
      (1)   Information and application. Owners or interested parties of all
buildings subject to the fire certificate of occupancy requirement shall apply
for a fire certificate of occupancy. The application shall be provided by the
Fire Chief and includes, at a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   A description of the building;
         (b)   The name, address and 24-hour telephone numbers of the owners;
         (c)   The name, address and telephone numbers of the property managers
and their 24-hour telephone numbers; and
         (d)   Such additional property and property management-related
information as will promote effective enforcement of this section, as required
by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   Inspection. Prior to obtaining a fire certificate of occupancy, all
buildings shall obtain a code compliance inspection to determine whether the
building is in compliance with all safety codes.
      (3)   Issuance. Upon a finding of no violations of the provisions of
state and local safety codes, the fire chief shall issue a fire certificate of
occupancy that shall contain the following:
         (a)   The type of occupancy with occupancy load, including number of
businesses, dwelling, rooming or guest units;
         (b)   The address of the building;
         (c)   The name and address of the owners and property managers;
         (d)   A description of that portion of the building for which the
certificate is issued;
         (e)   A statement that the described portion of the building has been
inspected for compliance with the requirements of state and local safety codes
for the group and division of occupancy and the use for which the proposed
occupancy is classified; and
         (f)   The name of the Fire Chief.
      (4)   Smoke and carbon monoxide alarms required. Where required, no fire
certificate of occupancy shall be issued unless such building has proper,
adequate and operable smoke alarms and carbon monoxide alarms.
      (5)   Posting. The fire certificate of occupancy provided by the Fire
Chief shall be posted in a conspicuous place on the building and shall not be
removed except by the Fire Chief.
      (6)   Effect of issuance. Issuance of a fire certificate of occupancy
shall not be construed as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this
code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certificates presuming to give
authority to violate or cancel the provisions of this code or other ordinances
of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
      (7)   Renewal. All fire certificates of occupancy shall be renewed every
calendar year.
   (H)   Owner’s duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   Notice. The owner or interested party for which a fire certificate
of occupancy has been issued is under a continuing obligation to give written
notice to the Fire Chief of any changes in the information supplied as part of
the application for the certificate. This includes any changes or modifications
of ownership of the building, and any change in use or occupancy status of the
building.
      (2)   New owner. A new owner of a building with a fire certificate of
occupancy shall file with the Fire Chief a written application for a
modification of the certificate if such premises is still being used or
occupied under an existing certificate. Such application shall be filed within
30 days after such new owner obtains new ownership in the building, whether or
not such interest has been recorded.
      (3)   Change of use. Changes in the use of a building shall not be made
without the approval of the Fire Chief or his or her designee, and the building
may be occupied for other purposes provided the new or proposed use is less
hazardous, based on life and fire risk, than the existing use. If the use or
occupancy of a fire certificate of occupancy premises changes, it shall
immediately be required to meet all requirements of law, including the
requirement for a certificate of occupancy, before being used for such new or
changed use. No change in the existing occupancy classification of a building
or structure or portion thereof shall be made until the Fire Chief or his or
her designee has issued a fire certificate of occupancy therefore as provided
herein. Dwelling units located within a commercial structure shall be exempted
from this requirement if the residence is less than 50% of the overall
structure. Properties occupied by an owner shall be exempted from this
requirement if the residence contains one or two dwelling units. The term
“owner” means a natural person, and does not include a corporation, partnership
or other entity.
      (4)   Posting. The fire certificate of occupancy shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises and shall not be removed except by the Fire
Chief or his or her designee.
   (I)   Fees.
      (1)   The city shall be entitled to collect its costs and assessed fee
regarding fire certificate of occupancy inspections and reinspection. The fees
associated with the fire certificate of occupancy program shall be a debt owed
to the city, and unpaid costs shall be collected by special assessment under
the authority in M.S. § 429.101 and as provided in this code. Action under this
section does not preclude any other civil or criminal enforcement procedure
available to the city.
      (2)   If charges assessed under this section are not paid by the owner or
interested party in a timely fashion, the city shall collect such costs by
assessment against the real property receiving these inspections and
reinspection services.
   (J)   Inspections.
      (1)   Scope of inspection. The Fire Chief or his or her designee is
authorized, in conformity with this chapter, to inspect all buildings, whether
having a fire certificate of occupancy hereunder or not. The inspection may
include the building or structure, the land upon which it is located and
accessory uses or structures. All inspections authorized by this chapter shall
be limited to those which are done for the purpose of seeking compliance with
applicable safety codes, and shall take place only at reasonable hours or as
may otherwise be agreed upon by the owner and the Fire Chief or his or her
designee.
      (2)   Notice of violations. The Fire Chief or his or her designee shall
give written notice to the owner, or any known interested parties, of any
violations of the applicable safety codes which are discovered during any
inspection.
      (3)   Administrative search warrant. Access during reasonable times shall
not be denied by any owner, occupant or other person in charge of the premises.
The Fire Chief may obtain a search warrant where probable cause exists to
believe that the premises are in violation of this section; provided, however,
that no search warrant is needed for entry where an emergency condition exists
and sufficient time to obtain a warrant is unavailable.
   (K)   Notice of violation; reinspection; correction orders.
      (1)   When the Fire Chief or his or her designee conducts an initial
inspection of a building and determines that violations of safety codes under
the jurisdiction of the Fire Chief exist, the Fire Chief shall, in addition to
any other action that the Fire Chief or his or her designee may undertake,
serve written notice of the violation in conformance with the requirements set
forth in this section.
      (2)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee may require an inspection
following a complaint or referral. If the Fire Chief finds a violation of
safety codes during a referral or complaint-related inspection, the fire chief
will issue correction orders. If the violation is not corrected by the
compliance date provided in the notice of violation, the building owners shall
be assessed fees for any necessary reinspections.
      (3)   Fees for the fire certificate of occupancy inspection and
associated reinspections are the responsibility of the building owner and shall
be paid within the time periods identified in the notice of violation.
   (L)   Other penalties. A violation of, or failure to comply with, any
section, provision or requirement in this section shall be a misdemeanor. This
section is a part of the city health, safety, housing, building, fire
prevention and housing maintenance codes, and a violation shall be deemed to be
a violation for purposes of state statutes allowing escrow of rent to remedy
violations.
   (M)   Grounds for revocation. The Fire Chief or his or her designee may, by
written notice to the owners, and to interested parties known to the Fire Chief
or his or her designee, deny, suspend or revoke a fire certificate of occupancy
when:
      (1)   The certificate was issued in error, or on the basis of incorrect
information supplied;
      (2)   The owners and/or interested parties have submitted a false,
incomplete or inaccurate statement as a part of the application for
certificate;
      (3)   The owner or interested party has failed or refused to pay fees to
the city for inspections or certificates;
      (4)   It is found, upon inspection of the Fire Chief or his or her
designee, that the building or occupancy is in violation of provisions of this
or other applicable safety codes, ordinances, rules and regulations;
      (5)   The owner, in a material matter, fails to comply with the
regulations in this chapter and with other applicable regulations in other
chapters of this code, or in situations where the Fire Chief or his or her
designee, after a good faith effort, cannot identify an owner or interested
party;
      (6)   The nonresidential building or structure becomes unoccupied; or
      (7)   There is evidence of nuisance activity subject to the procedure
provided below.
   (N)   Form of notice of suspension, revocation or denial. When the Fire
Chief or his or her designee revokes, suspends or denies a fire certificate of
occupancy for safety code violations, the notice issued by the Fire Chief shall
include the following:
      (1)   The specific reasons for the city’s suspension, revocation or
denial of the fire certificate of occupancy;
      (2)   The effective date of the revocation, suspension or denial of the
fire certificate of occupancy;
      (3)   A statement that the commercial building or residential occupancy,
or portion thereof, shall not again be used or occupied until such time as the
certificate is issued or renewed or suspension lifted following inspection and
a determination by the Fire Chief or his or her designee that the commercial
building or residential occupancy, or portion thereof, is in compliance with
applicable safety codes under the jurisdiction of the Fire Chief; and
      (4)   A statement indicating that the suspension, revocation, or denial
may be appealed to the Legislative Hearing Officer within ten days of issuance.
   (O)   Nuisance activity prohibited; abatement procedure. When the Fire Chief
or his or her designee determines, in consultation with the City Attorney, that
he or she has evidence of nuisance activity as described in M.S. § 617.81,
subd. 2, or other violations of nuisance provisions of this code are maintained
or permitted in the jurisdiction he or she serves, the Fire Chief shall provide
the written notice by personal service or certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the owner or interested parties known to the Fire Chief. Notice
under this section shall:
      (1)   State that a nuisance is maintained or permitted in the building or
structure and specify the kind of nuisance being maintained or permitted;
      (2)   Summarize the evidence that a nuisance is being maintained or
permitted in the building or structure, including the dates on which the
nuisance-related activity is alleged to have occurred;
      (3)   Inform the recipient that failure to abate the conduct constituting
the nuisance or to otherwise resolve the matter with the Fire Chief or his or
her designee by entering into an agreed-upon abatement plan within 30 days of
service of the notice will result in recommending the suspension or revocation
of the fire certificate of occupancy to the City Council, or referring the
matter to the prosecuting attorney who serves in the jurisdiction for remedies
in accordance with M.S. § 617.80 et seq. which could result in enjoining the
use of the building or structure for any purpose for one year, or in the case
of a tenant, could result in cancellation of the lease; and
      (4)   Inform the owner or interested party of the options available under
M.S. § 617.85, which provides that the owner of the building which is subject
to a district court abatement proceeding may file a motion before the court
that has jurisdiction over the abatement proceeding to cancel the lease or
otherwise secure restitution of the premises from the tenant or lessee who has
maintained or conducted the nuisance. The owner or interested party may assign
to the prosecuting attorney the right to file this motion.
         (a)   If the recipient of a notice under this section either abates
the conduct constituting a nuisance or enters into an agreed-upon abatement
plan within 30 days of service of the notice and complies within the stipulated
time period, the Fire Chief may not take action to suspend or revoke the fire
certificate of occupancy on the specified property regarding the nuisance
activity described in the notice.
         (b)   If the recipient fails to abate the nuisance within 30 days of
service of the notice, or fails to comply with the agreed-upon abatement plan,
the Fire Chief or his or her designee will refer the matter to the City Council
recommending suspension or revocation of the fire certificate of occupancy or
refer the matter to the prosecuting attorney in accordance with M.S. § 617.80
et seq.
   (P)   Effect of voluntary vacation of premises. No suspension, revocation or
denial of the fire certificate of occupancy shall be imposed upon any owner or
interested party who serves written notice upon the city stating an intent to
permanently vacate the premises within 30 days of the receipt of the notice of
suspension, revocation or denial. Written notice of intention to vacate, which
must include the date of vacation, must be filed with the Building Official
within ten days from the receipt of the notice and shall include proof that
notice of eviction was served upon the occupants of the premises if other than
the owner.
   (Q)   Stay pending appeal.
      (1)   Enforcement proceedings on the suspension, revocation or denial of
the fire certificate of occupancy, or orders to correct violations, shall be
held in abeyance if the owner shall file an appeal to the legislative hearing
officer within ten days of receiving the written order issued by the
enforcement officer, except in the case of an order to vacate a structure which
is deemed to be in an unsafe condition and dangerous to life or limb, the
enforcement officer shall proceed to order the building vacated until it is
made safe or a final determination is made by the legislative hearing officer
allowing reoccupancy of the building. This decision shall be presented to the
City Council for ratification at its next available public hearing.
      (2)   Abeyance of enforcement proceedings shall continue until such time
as the hearing officer shall have issued a final determination or in the event
the owner should not prosecute the appeal in a timely fashion.
   (R)   Reinstatement and occupancy following suspension or revocation.
      (1)   First suspension or revocation. If a fire certificate of occupancy
is suspended or revoked for a building, or portion thereof, that building, or
portion thereof, shall not be occupied until such time as the fire certificate
of occupancy is reinstated.
      (2)   Second suspension or revocation. If a fire certificate of occupancy
is suspended or revoked for a second time within a two-year time period under
the same ownership, the building for which it was issued shall not again be
occupied until such time as the Fire Chief or his or her designee has
determined that the building is in compliance with applicable safety codes and
the owner has posted a $5,000 performance deposit or bond to offset potential
city expenses associated with abating nuisance conditions. The deposit shall be
returned to owner upon completion of two years with no code violations
requiring city abatement.
      (3)   Third suspension or revocation. If a fire certificate of occupancy
is suspended or revoked for a third time within a three-year time period under
the same ownership, the building for which it was issued shall not again be
occupied until a nuisance abatement plan is developed by the property owner,
reviewed by the Code Official and approved by the City Council. If a nuisance
abatement plan is not developed and approved, the premises for which the fire
certificate of occupancy was issued shall not again be used or occupied for a
period of six months.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Board of Appeals, see §
2.30
§§ 6.47 THROUGH 6.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 6.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
CHAPTER 7: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS GENERALLY
Section
   
7.01   Definitions
   
7.02   Application
   
7.03   Scope and orders of officers
   
7.04   Traffic and parking control
   
7.05   Ice and snow on public sidewalks
   
7.06   Construction and reconstruction of roadway surfacing, sidewalk, curb and
gutter
   
7.07   Obstructions in streets
   
7.08   Street openings or excavations
   
7.09   Parades
   
7.10   Regulation of grass, weeds and trees
   
7.11   Load limits
   
7.12   Curb and gutter, street and sidewalk painting or coloring
   
7.13   Motorized vehicles prohibited on sidewalks
   
7.14   Restricting and regulating the use of skateboards, roller skates, roller
blades and roller skis
   
7.15   Snow emergency
   7.16 through 7.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
7.99   Violation a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor
Editor’s note:
   This chapter contains provisions as to definitions, application and scope
relating to Ch.
8 and
9 as well as this chapter.
§ 7.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the city code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in M.S. Ch. 169, as it
may be amended from time to time, shall be applicable to Ch.
7,
8 and
9  of this code of ordinances.
§ 7.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of Ch. Ch.
7,
8 and
9  of this code of ordinances are applicable to the drivers of all vehicles and
animals upon streets, including, but not limited to, those owned or operated by
the United States, the state or any county, town, city, district or other
political subdivision.
§ 7.03 SCOPE AND ORDERS OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of Ch.
7,
8 and
9  relate exclusively to the streets, alleys and private roads in the city, and
the operation and parking of vehicles refer exclusively to the operation and
parking of vehicles upon the streets, alleys and private roads.
   (B)   Orders of an officer. It is a misdemeanor for any person to willfully
fail or refuse to comply with any lawful order or direction of any police or
peace officer invested by law with authority to direct, control or regulate
traffic.
§ 7.04 TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL.
   (A)   Council action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this section;
provided that, when traffic and parking control is marked or sign-posted, the
marking or sign-posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
   (B)   Temporary restrictions. The city, acting through the Chief of Police,
may temporarily restrict traffic or parking for any private, public or
experimental purpose. It is the duty of the Chief of Police to so restrict
traffic or parking when a hazardous condition arises or is observed.
   (C)   Traffic restrictions and prohibitions. It is a misdemeanor for any
person to drive a vehicle contrary to lane restrictions or prohibitions painted
on any street, or contrary to sign-posted, fenced or barricaded restrictions or
prohibitions.
   (D)   Parking restrictions and prohibitions. It is unlawful for any person
to park a vehicle, except an emergency vehicle, contrary to lane restrictions
or prohibitions painted on any curb, or contrary to sign- posted, fenced or
barricaded restrictions or prohibitions.
   (E)   Damaging or moving markings. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
deface, mar, damage, move, remove or in any way tamper with any structure,
work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence, painting or
appurtenance in any street unless such person has written permission from the
city or is an agent, employee or contractor for the city, or other authority
having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting within the authority
or scope of a contract with the city or other authority.
§ 7.05 ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Ice and snow a nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private property within 12 hours
after the snow or ice has ceased to be deposited.
   (B)   City to remove snow and ice. The city may cause to be removed from all
public sidewalks, beginning 24 hours after snow or ice has ceased to fall, all
snow or ice which may be discovered thereon, and it shall keep a record of the
cost of the removal and the private property adjacent to which the
accumulations were found and removed.
   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. The City Clerk shall, upon direction
of the Council, and on receipt of the information provided for in division (B)
above, extend the cost of such removal of snow or ice as a special assessment
against the lots or parcel of ground abutting on walks which were cleared, and
the special assessments shall at the time of certifying taxes to the County
Auditor be certified for collection as other special assessments are certified
and collected.
   (D)   Civil suit for cost of removal. The City Attorney shall, in the
alternative, upon direction of the Council, bring suit in a court of competent
jurisdiction to recover from the persons owning land adjacent to which
sidewalks were cleared, as provided in division (B) above, the cost of the
clearing and the cost and disbursement of a civil action therefor.
§ 7.06 CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY SURFACING, SIDEWALK, CURB AND
GUTTER.
   (A)   Methods of procedure.
      (1)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing, sidewalk or curb and gutter in accordance with
this section if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the city are completed in advance.
      (2)   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the Local
Improvement Code of state statutes, presently beginning with M.S. § 429.011, as
it may from time to time be amended.
   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor to construct or reconstruct a
sidewalk, curb and gutter, driveway or roadway surfacing in any street or other
public property in the city without a permit in writing from the Building
Official. Application for such permit shall be made on forms approved and
provided by the city and shall sufficiently describe the contemplated
improvements, the contemplated date of beginning of work, and the length of
time required to complete the same; provided that, no permit shall be required
for any such improvement ordered installed by the Council. All applications
shall be referred by the Building Official to the City Engineer and no permit
shall be issued until approval has been received from the City Engineer. All
such applications shall contain an agreement by the applicant to be bound by
this chapter and plans and specifications consistent with the provisions of
this chapter and good engineering practices shall also accompany the
application. A permit from the city shall not relieve the holder from damages
to the person or property of another caused by the work.
   (C)   Specifications and standards. All construction and reconstruction of
roadway surfacing, sidewalk and curb and gutter improvements, including curb
cuts, shall be strictly in accordance with specifications and standards on file
in the office of the City Engineer and open to inspection and copying there.
The specifications and standards may be amended from time to time by the city,
but shall be uniformly enforced.
   (D)   Inspection. The Building Official shall inspect the improvements as
deemed necessary or advisable. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the Building
Official if found to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the
specifications and standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden upon
the city to inspect or supervise the work.
§ 7.07 OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Obstructions. It is a misdemeanor for any person to place, deposit,
display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over,
across or under any street without first having obtained a written permit from
the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects with the terms and
conditions of the permit, and taking precautionary measures for the protection
of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby included, but
not by way of limitation, within the definition of an obstruction.
   (B)   Fires. It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon a street.
   (C)   Dumping in streets. It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or
deposit in any street any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded
cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or
paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or
to empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. It is a
violation of this section to haul any such material, inadequately enclosed or
covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon streets. It is also a
violation of this section to place or store any building materials or waste
resulting from building construction or demolition on any street without first
having obtained a written permit from the Council.
   (D)   Signs and other structures. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
place or maintain a sign, advertisement or other structure in any street
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a district
zoned for commercial or industrial enterprises, special permission allowing an
applicant to erect and maintain signs overhanging the street may be granted
upon such terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions of the city code.
   (E)   Placing snow or ice in a roadway or on a sidewalk.
      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific
contract with the city or without special permission from the city, to remove
snow or ice from private property and place the same in any roadway or on a
sidewalk.
      (2)   Where permission is granted by the city, the person to whom such
permission is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct
or indirect costs of removing the snow or ice from the street or sidewalk. If
not paid, collection shall be by civil action or assessment against the
benefitted property as any other special assessment.
   (F)   Continuing violation. Each day that any person continues in violation
of this section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
   (G)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose insurance or bonding conditions thereon as
it, considering the projected danger to public or private property or to
persons, deems proper for safeguarding the persons and property. The insurance
or bond shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause of action
arising by reason of the obstruction.
§ 7.08 STREET OPENINGS OR EXCAVATIONS.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person, except a city employee acting within the
course and scope of his or her employment or a contractor acting within the
course and scope of a contract with the city, to make any excavation, opening
or tunnel in, over, across or upon a street or other public property without
first having obtained a written permit from the City Engineer as herein
provided.
   (A)   Application. Application for a permit to make a street excavation
shall describe with reasonable particularity the name and address of the
applicant, the place, purpose and size of the excavation, and such other
information as may be necessary or desirable to facilitate the investigation
hereinafter provided for, and shall be filed with the City Engineer.
   (B)   Investigation and payment of estimated costs. Upon receipt of the
application, the City Engineer shall cause the investigation to be made as he
or she may deem necessary to determine estimated cost of repair, such as back-
filling, compacting, resurfacing and replacement, and the conditions as to the
time of commencement of work, manner of procedure and time limitation upon such
excavation. The foregoing estimated costs shall include permanent and temporary
repairs due to weather or other conditions and the cost of the investigation
shall be included in the estimate.
   (C)   Protection of the city and the public.
      (1)   Non-completion or abandonment. Work shall progress expeditiously to
completion in accordance with any time limitation placed thereon so as to avoid
unnecessary inconvenience to the public. In the event that work is not
performed in accordance therewith, or shall cease or be abandoned without due
cause, the city may, after six hours’ notice in writing to the holder of the
permit of its intention to do so, correct the work, fill the excavation and
repair the public property and the cost thereof shall be paid by the person
holding the permit.
      (2)   Insurance. Prior to commencement of the work described in the
application, the applicant shall furnish the city satisfactory evidence in
writing that the applicant will keep in effect public liability insurance of
not less than $100,000 for any person, $300,000 for any occurrence and property
damage insurance of not less than $25,000, issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the state on which the city is named as a co-
insured.
      (3)   Indemnification. Before issuance of a permit, the applicant shall,
in writing, agree to indemnify and hold the city harmless from any liability
for injury or damage arising out of the action of the applicant in performance
of the work, or any expense whatsoever incurred by the city incident to a claim
or action brought or commenced by any person arising therefrom.
   (D)   Issuance of permit.
      (1)   The City Engineer shall issue the permit after:
         (a)   Completion of the investigation;
         (b)   Determination of all estimated costs as aforesaid;
         (c)   Agreement by the applicant to the conditions of time and manner
as aforesaid;
         (d)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to pay all actual cost of
repairs over and above the estimate; and
         (e)   Agreement in writing by the applicant to be bound by all of the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued until the applicant has paid all of the
foregoing together with the investigation, inspection and permit fees as are
fixed and determined by resolution of the Council.
   (E)   Repairs. All temporary and permanent repairs, including back-filling,
compacting and resurfacing shall be made, or contracted for, by the city in a
manner prescribed by the Council and an accurate account of costs thereof shall
be kept.
   (F)   Cost adjustment. Within 60 days following completion of such permanent
repairs the City Treasurer shall determine actual costs of repairs, including
cost of investigation, and prepare and furnish to the permit holder an itemized
statement thereof and claim additional payment from, or make refund (without
interest) to, the permit holder, as the case may be.
   (G)   Alternate method of charging. In lieu of the above provisions relating
to cost and cost adjustment for street openings, the city may charge on the
basis of surface square feet removed, excavated cubic feet, or a combination of
surface square feet and excavated cubic feet, on an established unit price
uniformly charged.
§ 7.09 PARADES.
   (A)   Definition. The term PARADE means any movement of vehicles, persons or
animals, or any combination thereof, which either moves together and as a body
so as to in some way impede or affect the free and unobstructed flow of
vehicular or pedestrian traffic, or which moves so that some part thereof is in
violation of one or more traffic laws or regulations, if the movement is
without a permit hereunder.
   (B)   Permit required. It is unlawful to sponsor or participate in a parade
for which no permit has been obtained from the city, and it is also unlawful to
obtain a parade permit and not conduct the same in accordance with the permit
granted by the city. Application for such permit shall be made to the City
Clerk at least 30 days in advance of the date on which it is to occur and shall
state the sponsoring organization or individual, the route, the length, the
estimated time of commencement and termination, the general composition and the
application shall be executed by the individuals applying therefor or the duly
authorized agent or representative of the sponsoring organization.
   (C)   Investigation. The City Clerk shall forthwith refer all applications
for parades to the Chief of Police for his or her consideration which shall
take no longer than seven days. If any state trunk highways are in the route,
the Chief of Police shall make all necessary arrangements with the state’s
Department of Public Safety for alternate routes or whatever may be necessary.
If the Chief of Police finds that such a parade will not cause a hazard to
persons or property, and will cause no great inconvenience to the public and,
if he or she is able to make arrangements for necessary direction and control
of traffic, he or she shall endorse his or her acceptance and return the
application to the City Clerk. If the Chief of Police finds the parade
described in the application to be a hazard, a substantial inconvenience or if
he or she is unable to make adequate arrangements for direction or control of
traffic, he or she shall return the same to the City Clerk with his or her
findings.
   (D)   Council action.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall refer the application and results of
investigation to the Council at its next regular meeting. The Council may
either:
         (a)   Deny the permit;
         (b)   Grant the permit; or
         (c)   Grant the permit on condition that a date, time or route are
acceptable to applicant which differ from such as stated in the application.
      (2)   The applicant shall have three days within which to communicate his
or her acceptance to the City Clerk.
   (E)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to hamper, obstruct or impede or
interfere with any parade, parade assembly or any person, animal or vehicle
participating in the parade.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to drive a vehicle between the
vehicles or persons comprising a parade when the parade is in motion.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to enter into a parade without prior
authorization from the parade chairperson.
   (F)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions; or
      (2)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
§ 7.10 REGULATION OF GRASS, WEEDS AND TREES.
   (A)   City to control tree planting (standards). The city shall have control
and supervision of planting shrubs and trees upon, or overhanging, all the
streets or other public property. The city may establish and enforce uniform
standards relating to the kinds and types of trees to be planted and the
placement thereof. The standards shall be kept on file in the office of the
City Engineer and may be revised from time to time by action of the Council
upon the recommendation of the City Engineer.
   (B)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to plant, spray, trim
or remove trees or other plants which are upon city property, including rights-
of-way, without first procuring from the city a permit in writing to do so.
   (C)   Duty of property owners to cut grass and weeds and maintain trees and
shrubs. Every owner of property abutting on any street shall cause the grass
and weeds to be cut from the line of the property nearest to the street to the
center of the street. If the grass or weeds in such a place attain a height in
excess of six inches, it shall be prima facie evidence of a failure to comply
with this division (C). Every owner of property abutting on any street shall,
subject to the provision herein requiring a permit therefor, trim, cut and
otherwise maintain all trees and shrubs from the line of the property nearest
to the street to the center of the street.
   (D)   City may order work done. The city may, in cases of failure to comply
with this section, perform the work with employees of the city, keeping an
accurate account of the cost thereof for each lot, piece or parcel of land
abutting upon the street.
   (E)   Assessment. If such maintenance work is performed by the city as set
forth in division (D) above, the City Engineer shall forthwith upon completion
thereof ascertain the cost attributable to each lot, piece or parcel of
abutting land. The City Clerk shall, at the next regular meeting thereof,
present the certificate to the Council and obtain its approval thereof. When
the certificate has been approved it shall be extended as to the cost therein
stated as a special assessment against the abutting land and the special
assessment shall, at the time of certifying taxes to the County Auditor, be
certified for collection as other special assessments are certified and
collected.
§ 7.11 LOAD LIMITS.
   The Council, upon the recommendation of the City Engineer, may from time to
time impose upon vehicular traffic on any part or all of the streets such load
limits as may be necessary or desirable. The limits, and the specific extent or
weight to which loads are limited, shall be clearly and legibly sign- posted
thereon. It is unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on any street in
violation of the limitation so posted.
§ 7.12 CURB AND GUTTER, STREET AND SIDEWALK PAINTING OR COLORING.
   It is unlawful for any person to paint, letter or color any street, sidewalk
or curb and gutter for advertising purposes, or to paint or color any street,
sidewalk or curb and gutter for any purpose, except as the same may be done by
city employees acting within the course or scope of their employment; provided,
however, that, this provision shall not apply to uniformly coloring concrete or
other surfacing, or uniformly painted house numbers, as the coloring may be
approved by the city.
§ 7.13 MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motorized vehicle on any
public sidewalk or public property designated for use as a pedestrian walkway
or bicycle trail, except when crossing the same for ingress and egress to
private property lying on the other side thereof.
§ 7.14 RESTRICTING AND REGULATING THE USE OF SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER
BLADES AND ROLLER SKIS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate or ride upon a skateboard,
roller skates, roller skis or roller blades upon any sidewalk or street in the
following areas:
      (1)   All of Chestnut Street (the downtown area); and
      (2)   The Public Library and its grounds located on Fifth Avenue and
Second Street South.
   (B)   The use of the above modes of transportation are strictly prohibited
at all times on the above listed streets and sidewalks adjacent thereto.
   (C)   It shall be the obligation of any person operating a skateboard,
roller skates, roller blades or roller skis to yield the right of way to any
pedestrian, giving an audible sign when necessary before overtaking and passing
any pedestrian.
   (D)   Parents, guardians or any other adult in charge shall be held
responsible for all damages or wrongful acts conducted by the minor in
contravention of this code provision. It is unlawful for any such parent,
guardian or adult in charge to permit a minor to ride or otherwise utilize a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades or roller skis if the minor violates
the provisions of this section. It shall be no defense to the parent, guardian
or adult in charge that he or she did not expressly allow the violation of this
section or did not have knowledge of past or present violations. It is the
intent of this section to require the parents, guardians or adults in charge to
take adequate precautions to ensure that minors conform to the provisions of
this section while operating the modes of transit listed within the city.
   (E)   This provision becomes effective upon its passage and publication
according to law.
(Adopted 11-13-1990)
§§ 7.15 SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Definition. For purposes of this section, the term SNOW EMERGENCY
means a condition created on city streets because of the presence of snow,
freezing rain, sleet or ice thereon or other natural phenomenon which creates
or is likely to create hazardous road conditions or impedes or is likely to
impede the free movement of fire, health, police, emergency or other vehicular
traffic, when the emergency has been duly declared.
   (B)   Declaration of snow emergency. Whenever, in the opinion of the City
Administrator or in his/her absence the Fire Chief and/or Police Chief an
emergency exists, he or she may declare the emergency and cause an announcement
thereof to be made to local news media, radio and social media.
   (C)   Beginning and duration of emergency.
      (1)   The emergency shall begin one hour after the announcement to news
media.
      (2)   Once declared, the emergency shall remain in effect for the ensuing
72 hours, provided that the emergency may, in the same manner, be re-declared
for subsequent like periods of time.
   (D)   Unlawful acts. During an emergency it is unlawful to park or leave
standing any vehicle:
      (1)   On any street signposted in a manner similar to an emergency route;
      (2)   On that side of the street on which the addresses include odd-
numbered buildings on such dates as are also odd-numbered; or
      (3)   On that side of the street on which the addresses include even-
numbered buildings on such dates as are also even-numbered.
   (E)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Persons in charge of wreckers or authorized emergency vehicles
while actually servicing mechanical, fire, police or medical emergencies; or
      (2)   Any street when it has been fully and completely (curb-to-curb)
cleared, sanded, salted or cleaned.
   (F)   Frequency. Due to the higher costs and expanded number of resources
involved with a snow emergency it is with great prejudice that a snow emergency
will be declared. This type of declaration should be reserved for extreme or
severe weather situations.
   (G)   Towing authorized. As per M.S. § 168B.035, Subd 3. (B)(1), any vehicle
which is left parked or standing on a public street designated as an Emergency
Snow Route during a snow emergency in violation of this section is hereby
declared a nuisance and shall be subject to a monetary fine as affixed by the
City Council from time to time and may be subject to impounding. The owner of
any vehicle impounded as a result of such nuisance shall be responsible for any
and all cost related to the impounding of said vehicle. The fine imposed on a
vehicle pursuant to this section shall not prevent or preclude the institution
and prosecution of preceding for violations of this section against the vehicle
owner.
   (H)   Notice of snow emergency parking provisions. Prior to November 1 of
each year, the city shall publish in the official newspaper and on its official
website the snow emergency parking provisions. The notice shall also be posted
at City Hall at the time of publication.
(Ord. passed 3-23-2021)
§§ 7.16 THROUGH 7.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 7.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows.
   (A)   Where the specific section, division, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he or she shall be punished as for
a misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, he or she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he or she
stands convicted of violation of any provision of this chapter, exclusive of
violations relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, within
the immediate preceding 12-month period for the third or subsequent time, he or
she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, he or she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 8: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
8.01   M.S. Ch. 168, 169 and 171 adopted by reference
   
8.02   Truck route
   
8.03   Exhibition driving
   
8.04   One-way streets
   
8.05   Recreational motor vehicles (including snowmobiles)
   
8.06   Motorized golf carts, operation and regulation
   
8.07   Rules and regulations for the operation of boats and watercraft on
Silver Lake and Virginia (Bailey’s) Lake
   8.08 through 8.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
8.99   Violation a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor
§ 8.01 M.S. CH. 168, 169 AND 171 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, or in Ch.
7  and
9 of this code of ordinances, the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S.
Ch. 168, 169 (commonly referred to as the Highway Traffic Regulation Act) and
171, as amended through Laws 1987, are hereby incorporated herein and adopted
by reference, including the penalty provisions thereof.
§ 8.02 TRUCK ROUTE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to drive a tractor, agricultural
implement, truck over 10,000 pounds axle gross vehicle weight, truck-trailer,
tractor-trailer or truck tractor in through traffic, upon any street, except
those which have been designated and sign-posted as truck routes. The total
weight for the entire vehicle shall not exceed 80,000 pounds. For the purpose
of this section, THROUGH TRAFFIC means originating without the city and with a
destination without the city, as distinguished from “local traffic” which means
traffic either originating or having a destination within the city. The truck
route designated by the City Council shall be kept on file for inspection at
the City Clerk’s office in City Hall, 327 First Street South, Virginia,
Minnesota.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall subject the violator to civil and
criminal penalties pursuant to M.S. §§ 169.832 through 169.851, as they may be
amended from time to time.
(Amended 2-26-2002)
§ 8.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Definition. EXHIBITION DRIVING, as used in this section, means to
stop, start, accelerate or decelerate a motor vehicle, or to turn such motor
vehicle at an unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears
to grind, soil to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding or, as to
two-wheeled or three-wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to lose contact
with the ground or roadway surface.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any exhibition
driving on any street, parking lot or other public or private property, except
when an emergency creates necessity for the operation to prevent injury to
persons or damage to property.
§ 8.04 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as one-way streets.
   (B)   It is a misdemeanor for any person to travel upon any one-way street
in a direction opposite that designated when the same has been duly sign-
posted.
§ 8.05 RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES (INCLUDING SNOWMOBILES).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Trail bikes, amphibious vehicles and similar
devices, other than snowmobiles, used at least partially for travel on natural
terrain, but not “special mobile equipment” as defined in M.S. § 168.002, subd.
2, as it may be amended from time to time, which is hereby incorporated herein
by reference.
      MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with fully operable pedals which may be
propelled by human power or a motor, or by both, with a motor of a capacity of
less than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement, and a maximum of two break
horsepower, which is capable of a maximum speed of not more than 30 mph on a
flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction when the motor is
engaged.
      OPERATE. To ride in or on and have control of a recreational motor
vehicle.
      OPERATOR. The person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
recreational motor vehicle.
      OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder, having a property interest in,
or title to, a recreational motor vehicle, who is entitled to the use or
possession thereof.
      RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes,
including, but not limited to, a motorized bicycle, all-terrain vehicle,
snowmobile, hovercraft or motor vehicle licensed for highway operation which is
being used for off-road recreational purposes.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
or natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   (B)   Recreational motor vehicle operating restrictions. It is unlawful for
any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
      (2)   On private property of another without lawful authority or
permission of the owner or occupant;
      (3)   On any lands owned or occupied by a public body or on frozen
waters, including, but not limited to, school grounds, park property,
playgrounds, recreational areas, private roads, platted but unimproved roads,
utility easements, public trails and golf courses; provided, however, that, the
Council may, by resolution, specifically permit use on city property, in which
event the shortest route to and from areas so permitted shall be used;
      (4)   While the operator is under the influence of liquor or narcotics or
habit-forming drugs;
      (5)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all of
the surrounding circumstances;
      (6)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or cause injury or damage thereto;
      (7)   Towing any person or thing on a public street or highway, except
through the use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of an automobile;
      (8)   At a speed greater than ten mph when within 100 feet of any
lakeshore, except in channels, or of a fisherman, ice house, skating rink or
sliding area, nor where the operation would conflict with the lawful use of
property or would endanger other persons or property;
      (9)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (10)   Chasing, running over or killing any animal, wild or domestic; and
      (11)   During the hours between 11:00 p.m. of one day and 7:00 a.m. of
the day next following; except that, during these hours, a motorized bicycle,
if otherwise lawfully operated, may be operated on a public street.
   (C)   Operation authorized.
      (1)   Operation of recreational motor vehicles is hereby authorized on
the roadways of all city streets, city alleys, and the county roads that lie
within city limits as per St. Louis County Ordinance 64, except as prohibited
by resolution of the City Council, and only in strict compliance with this
section.
      (2)   The City Council may by resolution close or restrict any specific
city road, city alley or any county road that lies within the city to all-
terrain vehicle use. In addition to the city’s customary publication
requirements, the city will designate such closure on the city’s official all-
terrain vehicle map which shall fulfill the legal requirements of appropriate
public notice.
   (D)   Owner responsibility.
      (1)   It is unlawful for the owner of any recreational motor vehicle to
permit its operation on private property without permission of the owner or
occupant, on city property without the permission of the Council, or on other
public property without permission of the body in charge thereof. For purposes
of this section, the owner shall be conclusively presumed to have given
permission unless the recreational motor vehicle so operated shall have been
reported stolen to a law enforcement agency.
      (2)   Every person leaving a recreational motor vehicle in a public place
shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the same with him or her.
   (E)   Additional snowmobile operating regulations.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile upon the
roadway, shoulder or inside bank or slope of any street or highway. Operation
in the ditch or on the outside bank within the right-of- way of any street or
highway, except interstate highways or freeways is permitted in conformance
with state law and the city code, unless the roadway directly abuts a public
sidewalk or walkway or property used for private purposes. Between the hours of
one-half hour after sunset to one-half hour before sunrise, any operation may
only be on the right-hand side of the street or highway and in the same
direction as the highway traffic on the nearest lane of the roadway adjacent
thereto.
      (2)   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway,
except an interstate highway or freeway; provided:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         (c)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made
only at an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or
highway; and
         (e)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
      (3)   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without
making a complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any
vehicles or pedestrians which constitute an immediate hazard.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any prohibition in this section, a snowmobile may
be operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
      (5)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or
highways or make a direct crossing of a street or highway as the operator of a
snowmobile. A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age,
may operate a snowmobile on streets or highways as permitted under this section
and make a direct crossing thereof only if he or she has in his or her
immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the
Commissioner of Conservation as provided by M.S. § 84.86, as it may be amended
from time to time. It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the
snowmobile to be operated contrary to the provisions of this division (E)(5).
   (F)   Snowmobile equipment. It is unlawful for any person to operate a
snowmobile unless it is equipped with the following:
      (1)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and in constant
operation, and which reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. Mufflers shall comply with Regulation Cons. 55 which
is hereby adopted by reference as it existed on 9-1-1970. No person shall use a
muffler cut-out, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on a snowmobile
motor, and the exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or
crackling sound;
      (2)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any conditions of the operation;
      (3)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition, so
that when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle, the motor is
disengaged from the driving track;
      (4)   At least one clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The
head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of an oncoming vehicle operator, it shall also be equipped with at least one
red tail lamp having a minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit
a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the
hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The equipment to be in
operating condition when the vehicle is operated between the hours of one-half
hour after sunset to one- half hour before sunrise or at times of reduced
visibility; and
      (5)   Reflective material at least 16 inches on each side, forward of the
handlebars, so as to reflect or beam light at a 90-degree angle.
(Ord. passed - - )
§ 8.06 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS, OPERATION AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Operation authorized. Operation of motorized golf carts is hereby
authorized on the roadways of all streets, except such as are prohibited by
resolution of the Council, and only in strict compliance with this section.
   (B)   Permits. Permits shall be issued only to handicapped persons as
defined by statute. Application for a permit to operate a motorized golf cart
on the roadways of streets shall include the name and address of the applicant
and other information as may from time to time be required by the Council.
Applications for initial or renewal permits shall be accompanied by a
certificate signed by a physician stating that the applicant is capable of
safely operating a motorized golf cart on the roadway of streets. All permits
shall expire on December 31, unless renewed. The fee for a permit shall be
fixed by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful for any person to operate a motorized
golf cart on the roadway of a street unless:
      (1)   The operator has in possession a valid, current and unrevoked
permit from the city;
      (2)   The operation is on a roadway which has not been designated as
prohibited for the operation, except crossing at an intersection;
      (3)   The operation is during daylight hours between sunrise and sunset;
      (4)   The operation is not during inclement weather, or when visibility
is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions, or when there is
insufficient light to clearly see persons or vehicles thereon at a distance of
500 feet;
      (5)   The motorized golf cart displays a slow moving vehicle emblem, as
described by statute, on the rear thereof;
      (6)   The motorized golf cart is equipped with rear view mirrors as
required by statute for other vehicles;
      (7)   The operator has insurance coverage as provided by statute
(presently M.S. § 65B.48, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time) for
motorcycles; and
       (8)   The operator observes all traffic laws, except such as cannot
reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts.
§ 8.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR THE OPERATION OF BOATS AND WATERCRAFT ON
SILVER LAKE AND VIRGINIA (BAILEY’S) LAKE.
   (A)   This section is for the purpose and intent to control and regulate the
use of the waters of Silver Lake and Virginia (Bailey’s) Lake in the City of
Virginia, Minnesota, said bodies of water being located entirely within the
boundaries of the city, to promote its fullest use and enjoyment by the public
in general and the citizens of Virginia in particular, to insure safety for
persons and property in connection with the use of said waters; to harmonize
and integrate the varying uses of said water; and to promote the general
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of Virginia, Minnesota.
   (B)   No person shall navigate, operate, dock or anchor any boat or
watercraft on Silver Lake or Virginia (Bailey’s) Lake within the city except in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Terms used in this ordinance related to boating are defined in M.S. §
86B.005.
   (D)   A person may operate a motor boat on Silver Lake without a permit from
the city. Silver Lake is designated a “no wake” lake, as all parties using
motor boats must comply with the no wake policy. The portion of the waterway
that lies between the boardwalk and the shore of the Public Utilities shall be
non-public waters and shall not be traversed by any means without written
permission from the city.
   (E)   A person may operate a motor boat on Virginia (Bailey’s) Lake without
a permit from the city. Virginia (Bailey’s) Lake is designated a “no wake”
lake, as all parties using motor boats must comply with the no wake policy.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of this section shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not
more than $100 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days.
   (G)   Enforcement. The primary responsibility for enforcement of violations
on waterways shall rest with the Department of Natural Resources (DNR). This,
however, shall not preclude enforcement by other licensed peace officers.
   (H)   Exemptions. All authorized Resource Management, Emergency and
Enforcement Personnel, while acting in the performance of their assigned duties
are exempt from the foregoing restrictions.
(Adopted 8-26-1997)(Amended 6-8-1999; amended 9-13-2011; Am. Ord. passed 7-25-
2023)
§§ 8.08 THROUGH 8.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 8.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows.
   (A)   Where the specific section, division, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he or she shall be punished as for
a misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, he or she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he or she
stands convicted of violation of any provision of this chapter, exclusive of
violations relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, within
the immediate preceding 12-month period for the third or subsequent time, he or
she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, he or she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
   (C)   As to any violation of a provision adopted by reference, he or she
shall be punished as specified in the provision, so adopted.
CHAPTER 9: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
9.01   Presumption
   
9.02   General parking prohibitions
   
9.03   Recreational camping vehicle parking
   
9.04   Unauthorized removal
   
9.05   Direction to proceed
   
9.06   Parallel parking
   
9.07   Angle parking
   
9.08   Streets without curb
   
9.09   Parking hours
   
9.10   Calendar parking
   
9.11   Truck parking
   
9.12   Parking rules in city parking lots
   
9.13   Impounding and removing vehicles
   
9.14   Loading zones
   
9.15   Unattended vehicle
   
9.16   Vehicle repair on street
   
9.17   Parking for the purpose of advertising or selling merchandise
   
9.18   Physically disabled parking
   
9.19   Parking on private property without consent
   
9.20   Parking meter regulations
   9.21 through 9.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
9.99   Violation a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor
Cross-reference:
   Definitions, scope and application relating to this chapter, see
Ch. 7
   Traffic Regulations, see
Ch. 8
§ 9.01 PRESUMPTION.
   As to any vehicle parking in violation of Ch.
7,
8 and
9  when the driver thereof is not present, it shall be presumed that the owner
parked the same or that the driver was acting as the agent of the owner.
§ 9.02 GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic-control device in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   (G)   In a sign-posted fire lane;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic-control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   (O)   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so long as
reasonably necessary for the loading and unloading to or from adjacent
premises; or
   (P)   On any boulevard which has been curbed.
§ 9.03 RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Definition. The term RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE means any of the
following.
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreation and vacation uses.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      (3)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified “Travel Trailer” by the manufacturer of
the trailer.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to leave or park a
recreational camping vehicle on or within the limits of any street. The
vehicles may be parked only in public or private parking lots.
§ 9.04 UNAUTHORIZED REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned by the person into
any prohibited area or away from a curb a distance as is unlawful.
§ 9.05 DIRECTION TO PROCEED.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
§ 9.06 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb
marking or sign-posting, or both, each vehicle stopped or parked upon a two-way
road where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or parked with the right-
hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 12 inches of, the right-
hand curb, and, where painted markings appear on the curb or the street, the
vehicle shall be within the markings, front and rear; provided that, upon a
one-way roadway, all vehicles shall be so parked; except that, the left-hand
wheels of the vehicle may be parallel with and within 12 inches from the left-
hand curb, but the front of the vehicle in any event and with respect to the
remainder of the vehicle, shall be in the direction of the flow of traffic upon
the one-way street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
§ 9.07 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking has been established by Council resolution, and is
allowed, as shown by curb marking or sign-posting, or both, each vehicle
stopped or parked shall be at an angle of approximately 45 to 60 degrees with
the front wheel touching the curb and within any parking lines painted on the
curb or street; provided that, the front wheel not touching the curb shall be
the portion of the vehicle furthest in the direction of one-way traffic; and it
is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
§ 9.08 STREETS WITHOUT CURB.
   Upon streets not having a curb, each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the
street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
§ 9.09 PARKING HOURS.
   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any
vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
   (B)   The Chief of Police may, when authorized by resolution of the Council,
designate certain streets, blocks or portions of streets or blocks as
prohibited parking zones, or five-minute, ten-minute, 15-minute, 30-minute,
one-hour, two-hour, four-hour, six-hour, eight-hour, morning or afternoon rush
hour limited parking zones and shall mark by appropriate signs any zones so
established. The zones shall be established whenever necessary for the
convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a free
flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in excess of the
signposted limitation, or during sign-posted hours of prohibited parking.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or otherwise obliterate
any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a vehicle by a police
officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time the vehicle has been
parked.
   (D)   For the purpose of enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less
than one block in a limited time parking zone shall be deemed to have remained
stationary.
§ 9.10 CALENDAR PARKING.
   (A)   Calendar parking: November 1 - April 30 beginning on November 1 and
continuing through April 30 of each calendar year. Vehicles parked pursuant to
provisions of §
9.09(A) of this chapter, except when otherwise posted or metered, shall be
parked on alternating sides of the street at 6:00 p.m. on the evening prior to
the designated day. Vehicles shall be parked on the side of the street bearing
even numbered U.S. Post Office addresses on even numbered days of the month and
on the side of the street bearing odd numbered U.S. Post Office addresses on
odd numbered days of the month.
   (B)   Calendar parking May 1 - October 31 beginning at 6:00 p.m. on May 1
and continuing through October 31 of each calendar year. Vehicles parked
pursuant to provisions of §
9.09(A) of this chapter, except when otherwise posted or metered, shall be
parked as follows.
      (1)   The first day of the month through the sixteenth day of the month,
vehicles shall park on the odd side of the street, with a changeover time of 6:
00 p.m. on the sixteenth day of the month.
      (2)   The seventeenth day of the month through the last day of the
calendar month, vehicles shall park on the even side of the street, with a
changeover time of 6:00 p.m. on the last day of the month.
(Amended 9-22-2015)
§ 9.11 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park a detached semi-trailer upon any street, city-
owned parking lot or other public property.
   (B)   It is unlawful to park a truck (other than a truck of 12,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight or less), truck trailer, tractor-trailer or truck-tractor
within an area zoned as a residential district, or within 300 feet thereof,
except for the purpose of loading or unloading the same, and then only during
such time as is reasonably necessary for the activity, but not between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the day next following.
   (C)   It is unlawful to park a commercial vehicle of more than 12,000 pounds
gross vehicle weight upon any street in the business district, except streets
as specifically designated by the Council by resolution and sign-posted, but
parking of the vehicle for a period of not more than 20 minutes shall be
permitted in the space for the purpose of necessary access to abutting property
while actively loading or unloading when the access cannot reasonably be
secured from an alley or from an adjacent street where truck parking is not so
restricted.
   (D)   It is unlawful to park a truck or other vehicle using or equipped with
a trailer, or extended body or other extension or projection beyond the
original length of the vehicle, or any passenger bus, diagonally along any
street, except for a time sufficient to load or unload and, in such case, only
parallel parking shall be permitted; provided, however, that, a truck may stand
backed up to the curb if the weight or bulk of the load makes parallel parking
impracticable, but then only for a period of time sufficient to load or unload.
   (E)   Parking of commercial vehicles is permitted in duly designated and
signposted loading zones, and in alleys, for a period of up to 20 minutes;
provided that, the alley parking does not prevent the flow of traffic therein,
all of which shall be for the purpose of access to abutting or adjacent
property while actively loading or unloading.
§ 9.12 PARKING RULES IN CITY PARKING LOTS.
   In city-owned parking lots, the Council may limit the sizes and types of
motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking, and prescribed method of
parking; provided that, the limitations and restrictions are marked or sign-
posted thereon. It is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle backed
into a parking place to drive in a direction opposite the flow of traffic
marked by “one-way” signs or arrows, or to park any vehicle in any city-owned
parking lot contrary to the restrictions or limitations marked or sign-posted
therein.
§ 9.13 IMPOUNDING AND REMOVING VEHICLES.
   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or city-owned
parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter. When any police
officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street or city-owned parking lot in
violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby authorized to
impound the unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof
and to remove the same to a convenient garage or other facility or place of
safety; provided that, if any charge shall be placed against the vehicle for
cost of removal or storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist therewith,
the same shall be paid prior to removal from the place of storage or
safekeeping.
§ 9.14 LOADING ZONES.
   (A)   The Council may, by resolution, establish loading zones to be used for
the specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise from a commercial
vehicle or vehicle temporarily being utilized in the transport of merchandise.
   (B)   The loading zones shall be installed where, in the judgment of the
Council, a commercial loading zone is justified and duly sign-posted.
§ 9.15 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended
while the engine is running.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended with
the key in the ignition.
§ 9.16 VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service the
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than three hours.
§ 9.17 PARKING FOR THE PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING OR SELLING MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street for the
purpose of advertising the vehicle for sale, for the purpose of advertising for
sale or selling merchandise thereon or therein, or advertising any merchandise
for sale or a forthcoming event.
§ 9.18 PHYSICALLY DISABLED PARKING.
   (A)   Statutory parking privileges for physically disabled shall be strictly
observed and enforced. Police officers are authorized to tag vehicles on either
private or public property in violation of the statutory privileges.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not physically disabled, to
stop, park or leave standing, a motor vehicle in a sign-posted fire lane at any
time or in lanes where, and during such hours as, parking is prohibited to
accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush hours.
§ 9.19 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY WITHOUT CONSENT.
   It is a misdemeanor to park or abandon a motor vehicle on the property of
another, or upon an area developed as an off-street parking facility, without
the consent of the owner, lessee or person in charge of any such property or
facility.
§ 9.20 PARKING METER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Installation and use. To control motor vehicle parking upon certain
streets and public parking lots, mechanical devices commonly known as parking
meters shall be installed on or near the curb or parking space and at such
locations as the Council may designate.
   (B)   Parking spaces. Lines or markings painted upon the curb or street or
public parking lot adjacent to each parking meter shall indicate the parking
space and it is unlawful to park any vehicle unless the same shall be wholly
contained within a single parking space.
   (C)   Days and hours of metered parking. It is unlawful for any person to
cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in his or her name or
operated or controlled by him or her to be upon any street within a metered
parking space at any time during which the meter is showing a signal indicating
that the space is illegally in use between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
on any Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Saturday, and between the hours
of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any Friday, excepting therefrom such days as are
legal holidays designated by state statutes.
   (D)   Charges. Parking meter charges may vary with location of on-street or
public parking lot upon or along which metered parking has been established.
Charges shall be prescribed by resolution of the Council at the time of
establishment of metered parking within a specified area or upon a specified
street. Changes in the charges shall be made by resolution of the Council.
Parking meter charges and coin denominations shall be clearly stated upon each
meter including the time covered by each denomination. Also, time limitations
for parking in any metered space shall be clearly set forth upon each meter.
   (E)   Slugs. It is unlawful to deposit or cause to be deposited in any
parking meter any slug, device or metallic substitute for legal coins.
   (F)   Damaging meters. It is unlawful for any person to tamper with, open,
willfully break, damage, deface, destroy or otherwise interfere with any
parking meter.
   (G)   Additional unlawful act. All coins shall be inserted at the time of
initial parking. It is unlawful, after a portion of the metered time has
expired, to insert additional coins.
§§ 9.21 THROUGH 9.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 9.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR OR PETTY MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows.
   (A)   Where the specific section, division, paragraph or provision
specifically makes violation a misdemeanor, he or she shall be punished as for
a misdemeanor; where a violation is committed in a manner or under
circumstances so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property, he or she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where he or she
stands convicted of violation of any provision of this chapter, exclusive of
violations relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, within
the immediate preceding 12-month period for the third or subsequent time, he or
she shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, he or she shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor., Crimes and Offenses
CHAPTER 10: PUBLIC PROTECTION, CRIMES AND OFFENSES
Section
   
10.01   Storage, deposit and disposal of refuse
   
10.02   Toilet installation required
   10.03 through 10.09   Reserved for future expansion
   
10.10   Dangerous weapons and articles
   
10.11   Animal licensing and regulation
   
10.12   Animals and fowl; keeping, transporting, treatment, housing
   
10.13   Animal waste
   
10.14   Curfew
   
10.15   Disorderly conduct
   
10.16   Bird feeder regulations
   
10.17   Overuse of police services
   
10.18   Camping on public property prohibited
   
10.19   Targeted picketing in residential neighborhoods
   10.20 through 10.29   Reserved for future expansion
   
10.30   Storage and treatment of elm wood
   
10.31   Minnesota Uniform Fire Code
   
10.32   Maintenance of private property
   
10.33   Storage of wood
   
10.34   Abandoning a motor vehicle
   
10.35   Phrenologists, clairvoyants, astrologists and fortune telling;
practices prohibited
   
10.36   Weapons/firearms prohibited on city property
   
10.37   Public nuisances
   
10.38   Banning the sale, possession, transfer or manufacture of synthetic or
alternative drugs
   
10.39     Rental registration and inspection
   
10.40   Rental licensing
   
10.41   Emergency remedies in residential rental property
   
10.42   Crime free housing program
   
10.43   Authority
   10.44 through 10.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
10.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 10.01 STORAGE, DEPOSIT AND DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any premises where a commercial or industrial
enterprise of any kind is carried on, and shall include restaurants, clubs,
churches and schools where food is prepared or served.
      MULTIPLE DWELLING. Any building used for residential purposes consisting
of more than four dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
      REFUSE. Includes all organic material resulting from the manufacture,
preparation or serving of food or food products, and spoiled, decayed or waste
foods from any source, bottles, cans, glassware, paper or paper products,
crockery, ashes, rags and discarded clothing, tree or lawn clippings, leaves,
weeds and other waste products, except human waste or waste resulting from
building construction or demolition.
      RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any single building consisting of one through four
dwelling units with individual kitchen facilities for each.
   (B)   Storage.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on residential
dwelling premises for more than one week. All such storage shall be in five- to
30-gallon metal or plastic containers with tight-fitting covers, which shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition; provided that, tree leaves, weeds
and grass clippings may be stored in plastic bags and tree limbs must be stored
in bundles weighing no more than 75 pounds and no longer than four feet.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on multiple dwelling
premises for more than one week. The storage shall be in containers as for
residential dwelling premises; except that, so-called “dumpsters” with close-
fitting covers may be substituted.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to store refuse on commercial
establishment premises for more than 48 hours. The storage shall be in
containers as for residential dwelling premises; except that, so-called
“dumpsters” with close-fitting covers may be substituted.
      (4)   It is unlawful to store organic refuse unless it is drained and
wrapped.
   (C)   Deposit. It is unlawful for any person to deposit refuse from any
source, rubbish, offal or the body of a dead animal, in any place other than a
sanitary landfill.
   (D)   Fire danger. It is unlawful for any person to store, deposit or
dispose of any refuse which is in flames or heated to the point where it could
cause danger of fire in other refuse.
   (E)   Disposal. The Council may, by resolution, adopt, and from time to time
amend, adjust and revise the rules, regulations, rates and charges as it deems
necessary or proper for the operation and management of the sanitary landfill.
It may give notice of any action as it deems necessary.
§ 10.02 TOILET INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   It is the duty of every owner or occupant of any property within the city,
having a dwelling house or business building situated thereon, which property
is abutting a street in which there are city water and sewer mains, to install
a toilet in the dwelling or business building and make connection thereof with
the water and sewer mains. The city shall serve written notice upon the owner
or occupant requiring the installation of toilet facilities upon premises
described in the notice, and connection thereof with the sewer and water mains,
all of which shall be done within 30 days after service of the written notice.
Whenever any owner or occupant shall default in compliance with the written
notice, the Council may, by resolution, direct that a toilet be installed and
connection made with the water and sewer mains and that the actual cost of the
installation be paid in the first instance out of the General Revenue Fund, and
assessed against the property so benefitted. After the installation and
connection is completed by order of the Council, the city shall serve a written
notice of intention to make an assessment therefor. If the assessment is not
paid within ten days, the city shall certify the amount thereof to the County
Auditor in the same manner as with other special assessments; provided that,
the Council may, by resolution, provide that the assessment be spread over a
term of five years upon written request by the owner of the property.
§§ 10.03 THROUGH 10.09 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 10.10 DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon or
explosive so as to endanger the safety of another;
      (2)   Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of injuring or
killing a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or toward another;
      (3)   Manufacture or sell, for any unlawful purpose, a weapon known as a
slung-shot or sand club;
      (4)   Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a switch blade
knife opening automatically;
      (5)   Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the purpose of
being used unlawfully as a weapon against another;
      (6)   Sell or have in his or her possession any device designed to
silence or muffle the discharge of a firearm;
      (7)   Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under 14 years of age to
handle or use, outside of the parent’s or guardian’s presence, a firearm or air
gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive;
      (8)   Furnish a minor under 18 years of age with a firearm, air gun,
ammunition or explosive without the written consent of his or her parent or
guardian or of the Police Department; and/or
      (9)   Possess, sell, transfer, or have in possession for sale or
transfer, any weapon commonly known as a throwing star or nun chuck. For the
purposes of this division (A)(9):
         (a)   A THROWING STAR means a circular metallic device with any number
of points projecting from the edge; and
         (b)   A NUN CHUCK means a pair of wood sticks or metallic rods
separated by chain links attached to one end of each such stick or rod.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing in division (A) above shall prohibit the possession
of the articles therein mentioned if the purpose of the possession is for
public exhibition by museums or collectors of art.
   (C)   Discharge of firearms and explosives. It is unlawful for any person to
fire or discharge any cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm, firecracker, sky
rocket or other fireworks, air gun, air rifle or other similar device commonly
referred to as a B-B gun.
   (D)   Exception. Nothing in division (C) above shall apply to a display of
fireworks by an organization or group of organizations authorized in writing by
the Council, or to a peace officer in the discharge of his or her duty, or to a
person in the lawful defense of his or her person or family. This section shall
not apply to the discharge of firearms in a range authorized in writing by the
Council.
   (E)   Possession and sale of fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to
sell, possess or have in possession for the purpose of sale, except as allowed
in division (D) above, any firecrackers, sky rockets or other fireworks.
   (F)   Exposure of unused container. It is unlawful for any person, being the
owner or in possession or control thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator,
ice box or other container, sufficiently large to retain any child and with
doors which fasten automatically when closed, to expose the same accessible to
children, without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
   (G)   Use of bow and arrow. It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and
arrow, except in the physical education program in a school supervised by a
member of its faculty, a community-wide supervised class or event specifically
authorized by the Chief of Police or a bow and arrow range authorized by the
Council.
§ 10.11 ANIMAL LICENSING AND REGULATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl
and poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
         (a)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall
include dogs, cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated
rabbits, fish, non-poisonous, non-venomous and non- constricting reptiles or
amphibians, and other similar animals.
         (b)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, ratitae (ostriches
and emus), farm raised cervidae (caribous and mule deer), llamas and alpacas
and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
         (c)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
            1.   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
            2.   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family
canidae) including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding
commonly accepted domesticated dogs.
            3.   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a
dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
            4.   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any
skunk (whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding
those members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
            5.   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
            6.   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but
which can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
      AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
      CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
      DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
      OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
      RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk in accordance with the regular license requirement if the animal is
unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance costs incurred in
capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be as established by
City Council.
   (B)   Dogs and cats.
      (1)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or
cat of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
      (2)   License required.
         (a)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or
maintained by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with
the city. Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the
license fee as established by City Council. The owner shall state, at the time
application is made for the license and upon forms provided, his or her name
and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or kept by
him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog that has not been vaccinated
against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by a veterinarian
qualified to practice in the state in which the dog is vaccinated.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this
section to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established by City Council.
         (c)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by City Council,
the Clerk shall issue to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag for
each dog licensed. The tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it is
issued and the number corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every
owner shall be required to provide each dog with a collar to which the license
tag must be affixed, and shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn.
In case a dog tag is lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be issued by the City
Clerk. A charge shall be made for each duplicate tag in an amount established
by City Council. Dog tags shall not be transferable from one dog to another and
no refunds shall be made on any dog license fee or tag because of death of a
dog or the owner’s leaving the city before the expiration of the license
period.
         (d)   The licensing provisions of this division (B)(2) shall not apply
to dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show. If the
animal owned is a service animal which is capable of being properly identified
as from a recognized school for seeing eye, hearing ear, service or guide
animals, and the owner is a blind or deaf person, or a person with physical or
sensory disabilities, then no license shall be required. 
         (e)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by City Council, shall first be used to
defray any costs incidental to the enforcement of this section; including, but
not restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs.
      (3)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar
as running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, licensing and proof of anti-
rabies vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also
apply to cats unless otherwise provided.
      (4)   Vaccination.
         (a)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported
within the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a
licensed veterinarian for:
            1.   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
            2.   Distemper.
         (b)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
   (C)   Non-domestic animals. Except as provided in M.S. § 346.155, as it may
be amended from time to time, it shall be illegal for any person to own,
possess, harbor, or offer for sale, any non-domestic animal within the city.
Any owner of a non-domestic animal at the time of adoption of this code shall
have 30 days in which to remove the animal from the city after which time the
city may impound the animal as provided for in this division (C). An exception
shall be made to this prohibition for animals specifically trained for and
actually providing assistance to the handicapped or disabled, and for those
animals brought into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic,
scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (D)   Farm animals. Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural
district of the city, or on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size
provided that no animal shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece
of property. An exception shall be made to this section for those animals
brought into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic,
scientific research laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (E)   Impounding.
      (1)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter
the property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of
an unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of
the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown,
the officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other
animal is not claimed within the time specified in division (E)(3) of this
section, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided
in this section, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause
injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
      (2)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner’s choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner’s property.
      (3)   Reclaiming. For the purposes of this section regular business day
means a day during which the establishment having custody of the animal is open
to the public at least four consecutive hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under division (K) of
this section in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or
the times specified in division (K) of this section, and except if the animal
is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it shall be kept for ten regular
business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their owners or keepers as provided
by this section. In case the owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim the animal
from the pound, the following shall be required, unless otherwise provided for
in this code or established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council:
         (a)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by the City Council.
         (b)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day
or any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
         (c)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by City Council, and valid certificate of vaccination for rabies
and distemper shots is required.
      (4)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (E)(3) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted
by law. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Clerk.
   (F)   Kennels.
      (1)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel”; except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel.”
      (2)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on
the same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in
the area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation,
the keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
   (G)   Barking/crying/whining dogs.
      (1)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
      (2)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or
other animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the
owner has knowledge of the damage.
      (3)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
      (4)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer
shall not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this
section unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do
so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction to
search for and seize the animal.
   (H)   Seizure of animals. Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may
enter upon private property and seize any animal with the permission of the
owner of the property, if that person is also the owner of the animal, provided
that the following exist:
      (1)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
      (2)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in division (G)(1); the criteria for cruelty set
out in division (L) of this section; or the criteria for an at large animal set
out in division (B)(1) of this section;
      (3)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one
previous complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that
the animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
      (4)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of
the animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed
or have been ignored;
      (5)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction to search for and seize the
animal. If the officer has the permission of the owner, a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to enter the property or has
obtained a pass key from a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other
authorized person to have that key shall not be considered unauthorized entry,
and a warrant to search for and seize the animal need not be obtained; and
      (6)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
   (I)   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city. If, in the
reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or police
officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any
person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal
is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may destroy
the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is on the
property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend the
animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under division (E) of this
section. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal
destroyed shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing
of the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is
found not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be
released to the owner or keeper in accordance with division (E)(3) of this
section.
   (J)   Diseased animals.
      (1)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his
or her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
      (2)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
      (3)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be
diseased the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
   (K)   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs.
      (1)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this
section, the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565,
as they may be amended from time to time (commonly referred to as the
“Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by reference.
      (2)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
         (a)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
            1.   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
            2.   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner’s property;
            3.   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
            4.   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (b)   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
         (c)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high
probability of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which
causes a permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any
bodily member or organ or other serious bodily harm.
         (d)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
         (e)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the city or the pound.
         (f)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
            1.   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
            2.   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including
a person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
            3.   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
         (g)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
            1.   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
            2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
            3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
            4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
         (h)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
         (i)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
      (3)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
         (a)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control
officer or other authorized city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
            1.   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog’s offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
            2.   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
            3.   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight,
or has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
         (b)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog's behavior has
changed due to the dog's age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may rescind
the designation.
         (c)   Exceptions.
            1.   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by
law enforcement.
            2.   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
               A.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
               B.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or
who can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting,
abusing, or assaulting the dog; or
               C.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
      (4)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52 (a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time, regarding proper
enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death of the dog,
until and unless a hearing officer or court of law reverses the declaration.
         (a)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
            1.   There is a proper enclosure;
            2.   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
            3.   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs
as established by City Council.
            4.   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner’s expense;
and
            5.   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner’s expense.
         (b)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
            1.   There is a proper enclosure;
            2.   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
            3.   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner’s expense.
         (c)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
         (d)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
         (e)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
         (f)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license
fee for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established by City
Council.
      (5)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner's property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
      (6)   Notification requirements to city.
         (a)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk in writing if the
dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died. The
notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner’s name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
         (b)   Renter’s obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous
or potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the
dog will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
         (c)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the dog’s
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
      (7)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
         (a)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
declared dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed
and no appeal has been filed;
         (b)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety
coverage as required or such required insurance is cancelled;
         (c)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
         (d)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by division (K)(5) of this section;
         (e)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous, the dog is not sterilized, as required by division (K)(4)(a)5. of
this section;
         (f)   The dog’s microchip has been removed.
      (8)   Reclamation. A dog seized under this division (K)(7) of this
section may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance
costs, and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this
division (K) have been met. A dog not reclaimed under this subsection (7)
within seven days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city
for maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may
prevent disposition of the dog by posting a security in an amount sufficient to
provide for the dog’s maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the
city within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
      (9)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
      (10)   Notice, hearings.
         (a)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
            1.   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
            2.   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing;
            3.   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days
of the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S.
§ 347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time,
regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death
of the dog, until such time as the hearing officer issues an opinion;
            4.   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52, as
they may be amended from time to time;
            5.   A form to request a hearing; and
            6.   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
         (b)   Right to hearing.
            1.   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city
within 14 days after notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so
within 14 days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a
hearing. The owner must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
            2.   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
            3.   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog’s owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog's owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
      (11)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing
officer are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any
dog, after proper notice is given pursuant to division (K)(10) of this section
and upon a finding that:
         (a)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually
trespassed in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
         (b)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner’s right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
         (c)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
         (d)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
         (e)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
         (f)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property
in the same attack without provocation;
         (g)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
         (h)   The dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare. In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public's health,
safety or welfare, the following factors may be considered:
            1.   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
            2.   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
            3.   The dog’s tolerance for pain;
            4.   The dog’s tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
            5.   The dog’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
            6.   The dog’s potential for unpredictable behavior;
            7.   The dog’s aggressiveness;
            8.   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
      (12)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog
that the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody
for destruction or other proper disposition.
      (13)   Dog ownership prohibited.
         (a)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
            1.   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of division (K)
(4), (5) or (6) of this section or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction,
or M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515 or 347.52, as they may be amended from time to time;
            2.   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205 (4), as it may be amended from
time to time; or
            3.   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S.
§ 609.226, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and
is found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had
owned a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance
with this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog
for a period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be
in violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to
division (K)(10) of this section.
         (c)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in
division (K)(13)(a) or (b), unless specifically approved with or without
restrictions by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
      (14)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under division (K)(13)(a) of this section that prohibits a person
from owning a dog, and annually thereafter, the person may request in writing
to the Police Chief that the city review the prohibition. The city may consider
such facts as the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the
prohibition, any criminal convictions, or other facts that the city deems
appropriate. The city may rescind the prohibition entirely or rescind it with
limitations. The city also may establish conditions a person must meet before
the prohibition is rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully
completing dog training or dog handling courses. If the city rescinds a
person's prohibition and the person subsequently fails to comply with any
limitations imposed by the city or the person is convicted of any animal
violation involving unprovoked bites or dog attacks, the city may permanently
prohibit the person from owning a dog in this state.
      (15)   Penalties.
         (a)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (b)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation
of any provision of division (K)(4), (5) or (6) of this section is guilty of a
gross misdemeanor.
         (c)   Any person who violates division (K)(13) of this section,
whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
   (L)   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs).
      (1)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal
to inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by division (K) of this section.
      (2)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance
with the terms established by this chapter.
      (3)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         (a)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
            1.   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public
or private property;
            2.   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
            3.   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
            4.   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
            5.   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (b)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
            1.   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
            2.   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the
streets, sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
            3.   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
         (c)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
            1.   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
            2.   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
            3.   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
            4.   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
         (d)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
      (4)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
      (5)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall
have the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
         (a)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (L)
(3)(a) of this section.
         (b)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (L)(3)(a) of this section.
      (6)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
         (a)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
         (b)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
      (7)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that
an animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
         (a)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain
an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal
from a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody
or the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
         (b)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
         (c)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to
be dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
      (8)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer
is witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the
officer may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the
attack to an end and prevent further injury to the victim.
      (9)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner’s name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
      (10)   Dangerous animal requirements.
         (a)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction
of an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
            1.   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in division (L)(3)(c) of this section;
            2.   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly
visible warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that
there is a dangerous animal on the property;
            3.   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance
in the minimum amount of $300,000;
            4.   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
            5.   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S.
§ 347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
            6.   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer
shall be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14
days after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof
thereof to the Animal Control Officer.
            7.   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
         (b)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended
from time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any
dangerous animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements
within 14 days after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is
dangerous. Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and
petition upon the city and filing it with the district court.
         (c)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division (L)
(10)(b) of this section, may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon
payment of impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control
that each of the requirements under division (L)(1)(a) of this section, is
fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14 days may be
disposed of as provided under division (L)(6) of this section, and the owner is
liable to the city for costs incurred in confining and impounding the animal.
         (d)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under this division (K) with the same animal, the
animal must be seized by animal control. The owner may request a hearing as
defined in division (K)(7) of this section. If the owner is found to have
violated the provisions for which the animal was seized, the Animal Control
Officer shall order the animal destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the
owner shall pay the costs of confining the animal. If the person is found not
to have violated the provisions for which the animal was seized, the owner may
reclaim the animal under the provisions of division (K)(1)(c) of this section.
If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after the date
the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may be
disposed of as provided under division (K)(6) of this section and the owner is
liable to the animal control for the costs incurred in confining, impounding
and disposing of the animal.
   (M)   Basic care.
      (1)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind
treatment, housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their
comfort. Any person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject
to the penalties provided in this section.
      (2)   Dogs and cats. Dogs and cats must be provided the following basic
care.
         (a)   Food. Dogs and cats must be provided with food of sufficient
quantity and quality to allow for normal growth or the maintenance of body
weight. Feed standards shall be those recommended by the National Research
Council.
         (b)   Water. Dogs and cats must be provided with clean, potable water
in sufficient quantity to satisfy the animal’s needs or supplied by free
choice. Snow or ice is not an adequate water source.
         (c)   Transportation and shipment. When dogs or cats are transported
in crates or containers, the crates or containers must be constructed of
nonabrasive wire or a smooth, durable material suitable for the animals. Crates
and containers must be clean, adequately ventilated, contain sufficient space
to allow the animals to turn around, and provide maximum safety and protection
to the animals. Exercise for 20 to 30 minutes and water must be provided at
least once every eight hours. Food must be provided at least once every 24
hours or more often, if necessary, to maintain the health and condition of the
animals.
         (d)   Shelter size. A confinement area must provide sufficient space
to allow each animal to turn about freely and to easily stand, sit, and lie in
a normal position. Each confined animal must be provided a minimum square
footage of floor space as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its
tail, plus 25%, expressed in square feet. The formula for computing minimum
square footage is: (length of animal plus 25%) times (length of animal plus
25%), divided by 144. A shaded area must be provided sufficient to protect the
animal from the direct rays of the sun at all times during the months of May to
October.
         (e)   Exercise. All dogs and cats must be provided the opportunity for
periodic exercise, either through free choice or through a forced work program,
unless exercise is restricted by a licensed veterinarian.
         (f)   Group housing and breeding. Animals housed together must be kept
in compatible groups. Animals must not be bred so often as to endanger their
health.
         (g)   Temperature. Confinement areas must be maintained at a
temperature suitable for the animal involved.
         (h)   Ventilation. An indoor confinement area must be ventilated.
Drafts, odors, and moisture condensation must be minimized. Auxiliary
ventilation, such as exhaust fans, vents, and air conditioning, must be used
when the ambient temperature rises to a level that may endanger the health of
the animal.
         (i)   Lighting. An indoor confinement area must have at least eight
hours of illumination sufficient to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
         (j)   Confinement and exercise area surfaces. Where applicable, the
interior surfaces of confinement and exercise areas, including crates or
containers, must be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially
impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned. They must protect the animal
from injury and be kept in good repair.
         (k)   Drainage. Where applicable, a suitable method must be used to
rapidly eliminate excess fluids from confinement areas.
         (l)   Sanitation. Food and water receptacles must be accessible to
each animal and located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. Feeding and
water receptacles must be kept clean. Disposable food receptacles must be
discarded when soiled. Measures must be taken to protect animals from being
contaminated with water, wastes, and harmful chemicals. Wastes must be disposed
of properly. Where applicable, flushing methods and a disinfectant must be used
periodically. Bedding, if used, must be kept clean and dry. Outdoor enclosures
must be kept clean and base material replaced as necessary.
      (3)   Birds, rodent other animals. Basic care provided to pet and
companion animal birds, rodents and other shall be consistent with M.S. §
346.40, § 346.41 and § 346.42, as those statutes may be amended from time to
time.
      (4)   Dogs and cats in motor vehicles.
         (a)   Unattended dogs or cats. A person may not leave a dog or a cat
unattended in a standing or parked motor vehicle in a manner that endangers the
dog’s or cat’s health or safety.
         (b)   Removal of dogs or cats. A peace officer, as defined in M.S. §
626.84, as it may be amended from time to time, a humane agent, a dog warden,
or a volunteer or professional member of a fire or rescue department of the
city may use reasonable force to enter a motor vehicle and remove a dog or cat
which has been left in the vehicle in division (M)(4)(a) of this section. A
person removing a dog or a cat under this division shall use reasonable means
to contact the owner of the dog or cat to arrange for its return home. If the
person is unable to contact the owner, the person may take the dog or cat to an
animal shelter.
      (5)   Dog houses. A person in charge or control of any dog which is kept
outdoors or in an unheated enclosure shall provide the dog with shelter and
bedding as prescribed in this section as a minimum.
         (a)   Building specifications. The shelter shall include a moisture
proof and windproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material with a solid,
moisture proof floor or a floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
Between November 1 and March 31 the structure must have a windbreak at the
entrance. The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets,
or the equivalent, to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness and promote retention of body heat.
         (b)   Shade. Shade from the direct rays of the sun, during the months
of May to October shall be provided.
         (c)   Farm dogs. In lieu of the requirements of division (M)(5)(a) and
(b) of this section, a dog kept on a farm may be provided with access to a barn
with a sufficient quantity of loose hay or bedding to protect against cold and
dampness.
   (N)   Breeding moratorium. Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be
confined in a building or other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in
contact with another dog or cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and
failure to reclaim the animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed
prior to being transferred to a new owner.
   (O)   Enforcing officer. The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an
animal control officer(s) to enforce the provisions of this section. In the
officer’s duty of enforcing the provisions of this division (O), he or she may
from time to time, with the consent of the City Council, designate assistants.
   (P)   Pound. Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to
which animals found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe
treatment, and if necessary, for destruction.
   (Q)   Interference with officers.  No person shall in any manner molest,
hinder, or interfere with any person authorized by the City Council to capture
dogs, cats or other animals and convey them to the pound while engaged in that
operation. Nor shall any unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt
to do so, or take or attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him
or her in compliance with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere
with or hinder the officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this
chapter.
   (R)   Fighting animals.
      (1) The provisions of M.S. § 343.31, as it may be amended from time to
time, are adopted herein by reference.
      (2)   No person shall:
         (a)   Promote, engage in, or be employed in the activity of
cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or companion animal as
defined in M.S. § 346.36, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time,
against another of the same or a different kind;
         (b)   Receive money for the admission of a person to a place used, or
about to be used, for that activity;
         (c)   Willfully permit a person to enter or use for that activity
premises of which the permitter is the owner, agent, or occupant;
         (d)   Use, train, or possess a dog or other animal for the purpose of
participating in, engaging in, or promoting that activity; or
         (e)   Purchase a ticket of admission or otherwise gain admission to
the activity of cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or
companion animal against another of the same or a different kind.
   (S)   Feeding stray cats and dogs.
      (1)   Definitions.
         (a)   FEED or FEEDING means the placing of dog or cat food, or similar
food products or consumable materials attractive to dogs and cats, which may
result in dogs and cats congregating thereon on a regular basis, placed on the
ground, in an obviously intended feeder, or in a feeder at a height accessible
to cats and dogs.
         (b)   STRAY means an unlicensed domestic or feral dog or cat running
at large and unaccompanied or controlled by an owner.
      (2)   Policy and purpose. High populations of stray dogs and cats pose a
hazard to human health and safety, as such animals provide a fruitful breeding
ground for infectious disease, including but not limited to rabies and
distemper, and may otherwise bite or attack humans and domestic animals. In
addition, food provided for stray animals is often attractive to wild animals
such as raccoons and rodents and may create nuisance conditions such as a rat
harborage or other wild animal infestation.
      (3)   Feeding strays. No person shall feed or allow the feeding of any
stray cat or dog within the city.
      (4)   Exceptions. Veterinarians and persons who, acting within the scope
of their employment with any governmental entity non-profit, or humane society
has custody of or manages stray dogs and cats are not subject to the
prohibitions of this section.
§ 10.12 ANIMALS AND FOWL; KEEPING, TRANSPORTING, TREATMENT, HOUSING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMALS. Includes farm animals and all other animals, reptiles and
feathered birds or fowl except dogs, cats, gerbils, hamsters and caged
household birds.
      FARM ANIMALS. Cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine, ponies, ducks,
geese, turkeys, chickens, guinea hens and honey bees.
   (B)   Keeping. It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal,
not in transit, except:
      (1)   Animals kept as part of a show licensed under the city code;
      (2)   Animals used in a parade for which a permit has been issued;
      (3)   Animals kept in a laboratory for scientific or experimental
purposes; or
      (4)   Animals kept in an animal hospital or clinic for treatment by a
licensed veterinarian.
   (C)   Animals in transit. It is unlawful for any person to transport animals
unless they are:
      (1)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;
      (2)   Farm animals being transported in a portion of the city zoned for
agricultural purposes; or
      (3)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, ropes or other means of
individual restraint.
   (D)   Treatment. It is unlawful for any person to treat any animal as herein
defined, or any other animal, in a cruel or inhumane manner.
   (E)   Housing. It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal, as herein
defined, or any other animal, in any structure infested by rodents, vermin,
flies or insects, or inadequate for protection against the elements. A dog’s
house shall meet the requirements outlined in M.S. § 343.40, subd. 2, regarding
doghouses. During the months of June to September, an area of total shade must
be provided throughout the day. The dog house shall not be considered as an
adequate source of shade.
(Amended 8-23-1994)
   (F)   Trespasses. It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any
animal over and upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city park, cemetery, garden or
lot without specific permission therefor from the owner.
§ 10.13 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ANIMAL. A dog, cat or other animal.
      OWNER. Any person who harbors, feeds, boards, possesses, keeps or has
custody of an animal.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It is a petty misdemeanor for any owner to:
      (1)   Suffer or permit an animal to defecate upon public property, or the
private property of another, without immediately removing the excrement and
disposing of it in a sanitary manner;
      (2)   Suffer or permit an animal to be upon public property, or the
private property of another, unless the animal is in the custody of a person of
suitable age and discretion having in his or her possession equipment and
supplies for excrement removal; and/or
      (3)   Permit animal excrement to accumulate for a period in excess of
seven days on premises occupied by him or her without removal and sanitary
disposal.
§ 10.14 CURFEW.
   (A)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   In recent years, there has been a significant increase in juvenile
victimization and crime. At the same time, the crimes committed by and against
juveniles have become more violent. A significant percentage of juvenile crime
occurs during curfew hours.
      (2)   Because of their lack of maturity and experience, juveniles are
particularly susceptible to becoming victims of older perpetrators. The younger
a person is the more likely he or she is to be a victim of crime.
      (3)   While parents have the primary responsibility to provide for the
safety and welfare of juveniles, the city also has a substantial interest in
the safety and welfare of juveniles. Moreover, the city has an interest in
preventing juvenile crime, promoting parental supervision and providing for the
well- being of the general public.
      (4)   A city-wide curfew will reduce juvenile victimization and crime and
will advance public safety, health and general welfare.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EMERGENCY. A circumstance or combination of circumstances requiring
immediate action to prevent property damage, serious bodily injury or loss of
life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business to which the public
is invited, including, but not limited to, any place of amusement,
entertainment or refreshment.
       FAIL TO SUPERVISE. A parent, guardian or responsible adult commits the
offense of failing to supervise a juvenile or tending to cause the delinquency
of a juvenile, if the parent, guardian or responsible adult:
         (a)   Is the parent, guardian or responsible adult, which adult person
resides within the corporate limits of the city;
         (b)   Fails to provide appropriate and responsible supervision of the
juvenile; or who aids, contributes or becomes responsible for the neglect,
abuse or delinquency of the juvenile. For purposes of this section, a person is
responsible for the delinquency of a juvenile or has failed to provide
appropriate and reasonable supervision when:
            1.   The juvenile has committed three or more delinquent acts
within a two calendar year period, which events have been referred to the
Juvenile Court;
            2.   The person fails to undertake counseling requirements ordered
by a juvenile court having jurisdiction over the juvenile;
            3.   The person fails to take meaningful and reasonable
disciplinary or remedial action in response to prior delinquent acts of the
juvenile; or
            4.   The act or failure to act by the person demonstrates a willful
lack of commitment to prevent future delinquent acts by the juvenile.
         (c)   Solicits, requests, commands, encourages or intentionally aids
or acts with the juvenile in violation of any federal, state or local law;
         (d)   Aids, contributes to or becomes legally responsible for the
neglect, abuse or delinquency of the juvenile;
         (e)   Willfully abuses, neglects or abandons the juvenile in any
manner likely to cause the juvenile unnecessary suffering or serious injury to
his or her health or morals; or
         (f)   Provides, encourages or permits the juvenile to possess or
consume an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance, other than in
accordance with state statutes.
      GUARDIAN. An adult appointed by a state’s District Court order.
      JUVENILE. A person under the age of 18 years. The term does not include
persons under 18 who are married or have been legally emancipated.
      PARENT. Birth parents, adoptive parents and step-parents.
      PROPRIETOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person 18 years or older specifically authorized by
law or by a parent or guardian to have custody and control of a juvenile.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any body part or organ.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a juvenile under the age of 12 years to be
present in any public place or establishment within the city:
         (a)   Any time between 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00
a.m. of the following day.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a juvenile ages 12, 13 or 14 years to be present
in any public place or establishment within the city:
         (a)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00
a.m. of the following day.
      (3)   It is unlawful for a juvenile ages 15, 16 or 17 years to be present
in any public place or establishment within the city:
         (a)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   Any time between 11:59 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00
a.m. on the following day.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a juvenile knowingly,
or through negligent supervision, to permit the juvenile to be in any public
place or establishment within the city during the hours prohibited in this
division (C).
      (5)   It is unlawful for any proprietor of an establishment within the
city to knowingly permit a juvenile to remain in the establishment or on the
establishment’s property during the hours prohibited in this division (C). If
the proprietor is not present at the time of the curfew violation, the
responding officer shall leave written notice of the violation with an employee
of the establishment. A copy of the written notice shall be served upon the
establishment’s proprietor personally or by certified mail.
      (6)   It is unlawful for the parent, guardian or responsible adult having
the care and custody of a juvenile to knowingly permit the juvenile to loiter,
idle, wander or stroll, upon, about or in any of the public streets, avenues,
alleys, parks, squares, playgrounds, public lots, public places, public
buildings, vacant lots or other unsupervised places between the hours
designated as curfew and sunrise of the following morning, except when the
juvenile is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or responsible adult or
except where the juvenile is upon an emergency errand or legitimate business
directed by his or her parent, guardian or responsible adult. When any juvenile
is found violating any of the provisions of this section, a presumption shall
arise that the parent, guardian or responsible adult allowed, permitted,
assisted, aided, abetted and encouraged the juvenile in the violation.
      (7)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a juvenile to, by word
or deed or failure to act, fail to supervise said juvenile, to encourage,
contribute toward, cause or tend to cause the juvenile to become a “neglected
child”, a “delinquent child” or a “habitual truant”, a “runaway”, a “juvenile
petty offender”, a “juvenile alcohol offender” or a “juvenile controlled
substance offender”, as defined by M.S. §§ 260B.007 and 260C.007, as it may be
amended from time to time, whether or not a petition for adjudication be sought
or sustained in the county’s Juvenile Court.
      (8)   It is unlawful for a parent, after receiving a written warning
notice of a curfew violation, to knowingly permit a juvenile to remain upon any
city street, alley, right-of-way or similar place under circumstances not
constituting an exception to, or otherwise beyond the scope of, this section.
      (9)   The parent of a juvenile shall have violated this section if,
within 12 months after receipt of a written warning, a second curfew violation
against the same juvenile is issued.
      (10)   If a police officer reasonably believes that a juvenile is on the
streets in violation of this section, the officer shall notify the juvenile
that he or she is in violation of this section and shall require the juvenile
to provide his or her name, address and telephone number and how to contact his
or her parent. In determining the age of the juvenile and in the absence of
convincing evidence such as a birth certificate or driver’s license, or permit,
a police officer on the street shall use his or her best judgment in
determining age. If the police determine that a person is in violation of this
section, he or she shall take the juvenile to the police station or other
appropriate holding facility where a parent shall immediately be notified to
come for the juvenile whereupon he or she shall be questioned, and a written
warning notice shall be issued to both the juvenile and the parent or parents.
However, this does not preclude a police officer, using his or her discretion,
from transporting the juvenile to his or her home.
   (D)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is an affirmative defense for a juvenile to prove that:
         (a)   The juvenile was accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or
other responsible adult;
         (b)   The juvenile was engaged in a lawful employment activity or was
going to or returning home from his or her place of employment;
         (c)   The juvenile was involved in an emergency situation;
         (d)   The juvenile was going to, attending or returning home from an
official school, religious or other recreational activity sponsored and/or
supervised by a public entity or a civic organization;
         (e)   The juvenile was on an errand at the direction of a parent or
guardian;
         (f)   The juvenile was exercising First Amendment rights protected by
the United States Constitution or Art. I of the Constitution of the state;
         (g)   The juvenile was engaged in interstate travel; and/or
         (h)   The juvenile was on the public right-of-way boulevard or
sidewalk abutting the property containing the juvenile’s residence or abutting
the neighboring property, structure or residence.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense for a proprietor of an establishment
to prove that:
         (a)   The proprietor or employee reasonably and in good faith relied
upon a juvenile’s representations of proof of age. Proof of age may be
established by:
            1.   A valid driver’s license or identification card issued by
Minnesota, another state or a province of Canada, and including the photograph
and date of birth of the licensed person;
            2.   A valid military identification card issued by the United
States Department of Defense; or
            3.   In the case of a foreign national, from a nation other than
Canada, by a valid passport, or other verifiable means, including, but not
limited to, school identification cards and birth certificates.
         (b)   The proprietor or employee promptly notified the responsible
police agency that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours.
         (c)   It is an affirmative defense for a parent, guardian or
responsible adult to prove that:
            1.   The parent, guardian or responsible adult is a direct victim
of that act or conduct which resulted in the juvenile being subject to the
jurisdiction of the Juvenile Court;
            2.   The parent, guardian or responsible adult reported the act or
event to appropriate governmental authorities at or near the time the juvenile
committed the wrongful or delinquent act or conduct; or
            3.   The parent, guardian or responsible adult provided reasonable
and appropriate supervision to the juvenile, under the totality of the
circumstances. In assessing the reasonableness or appropriateness of the
person’s supervisory actions, the Court will consider:
               a.   The severity of the offense committed by the juvenile;
               b.   The number of prior offenses committed by the juvenile;
               c.   The person’s knowledge of the juvenile’s wrongful conduct
or behavior;
               d.   The discipline, counseling or other remedial measures taken
by the person, after obtaining knowledge of the wrongful behavior of the
juvenile; and
               e.   Any other action by the person which demonstrates a
reasonable commitment and effort to prevent future delinquent or wrongful
conduct, behavior or acts by the juvenile.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   Violation of divisions (C)(1), (C)(2) or (C)(3) above will be
prosecuted pursuant to M.S. § 260A.04, as it will be amended from time to time,
and will be subject to the penalties therein.
      (2)   Upon conviction for a violation of divisions (C)(4), (C)(5), (C)
(6), (C)(7), (C)(8) or (C)(9) above, punishment shall be imposed by a fine of
not less than $100, nor more than $300; provided further, the sentencing court
may suspend imposition of judgment or sentence upon parole for the successful
performance of supervised community public service of not less than 20 hours.
   (F)   Review. The Council shall conduct yearly reviews of this section to
assess the effectiveness of and continuing need for a juvenile curfew. Prior to
the annual review, the Chief of Police shall prepare and submit a report to the
Council evaluating violations of this section and juvenile crime and
victimization during the preceding year.
(Amended 9-13-2016)
§ 10.15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing
or having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm,
anger or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do
the following:
      (1)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
      (2)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;
      (3)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous
and noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others;
      (4)   Willfully and lewdly expose his or her person or the private parts
thereof, or procure another to so expose himself or herself; and any open or
gross lewdness or lascivious behavior or any act of public indecency;
      (5)   Whether or not posted with signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter
the waters of any river or public swimming pool at any time when the waters are
not properly supervised by trained life-saving personnel in attendance for that
purpose, or enter the waters without being garbed in a bathing suit sufficient
to cover his or her person and equal to the standards generally adopted and
accepted by the public;
      (6)   Urinate or defecate in a place other than:
         (a)   If on public property, then in a plumbing fixture provided for
that purpose;
         (b)   If on the private property of another, then in a plumbing
fixture provided for that purpose; or
         (c)   If on private property not owned or controlled by another, then
within a building.
      (7)   Cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by shouting
or by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any automobile or
other vehicle horn;
      (8)   Use a sound amplifier upon streets and public property without
prior written permission from the city;
      (9)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger
others;
      (10)   Cause defacement, destruction or otherwise damage to any premises
or any property located thereon;
      (11)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any refuse,
garbage or rubbish unto any premises, except into receptacles provided for such
purpose;
      (12)   Enter any motor vehicle of another without the consent of the
owner or operator; or
      (13)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being
requested or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or
person in charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official.
   (B)   Provided, however, that, this provision shall not apply to any person
who is owner or tenant of the premises involved nor to any law enforcement or
other government official who may be present thereon at that time as part of
his or her official duty, nor shall it include the spouse, children, employee
or tenant of the owner or occupier.
§ 10.16 BIRD FEEDER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Findings and purpose. It is found that feeding wild birds out-of-doors
during the winter season is a recognized and commendable practice. It is
further found that, uncontrolled, the practice of bird feeding can attract
large numbers of birds in a concentrated area and droppings on public and
private property can thereby become a nuisance and result in a health hazard.
Also, the indiscriminate practice of scattering bird feed on the ground or
unprotected places can attract wild birds to a place where they are vulnerable
to predators. The purposes of this section are:
      (1)   To assure the enjoyment of neighborhood properties by avoiding a
nuisance;
      (2)   To protect the health of persons present; and
      (3)   To protect birds from predators.
   (B)   Definition and description.
      (1)   As used in this section, BIRD FEEDER means a container used or
intended to contain and dispense bird feed of any kind out-of-doors.
      (2)   All bird feeders shall be at least five feet above the surrounding
ground or structural surface and supported:
         (a)   If from below, by a metal pole or pole of other material
completely and continuously covered on all vertical surfaces by metal for at
least three feet, and which pole shall have a circular concave metal protector
at least 12 inches in diameter, arched downward; or
         (b)   If from above, by a straight, smooth, all-metal hanger at least
three feet long.
      (3)   All bird feeders shall be equipped with a cover or roof to protect
the contents from natural precipitation.
      (4)   As to all limitations on bird feeder capacity stated in this
section, where there are multiple bird feeders on the same premises, the
limitations shall refer to the aggregate of all bird feeders and not to each
such facility.
   (C)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful to place feed intended for birds upon the ground or
any other surface or in a container other than a bird feeder, as defined and
described in this section.
      (2)   It is unlawful to place a bird feeder on public property, on
premises occupied by or used for a commercial or industrial purpose, on
premises occupied by another, or on residential property less than 20 feet from
any lot line or other ownership boundary.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any owner, or other person in possession of a
single-family residential property, to place or maintain thereon a bird feeder
(s) having a capacity in excess of 300 cubic inches.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any owner, or other person in possession of a
two-family residential property, to place or maintain thereon a bird feeder(s)
having a capacity in excess of 350 cubic inches.
      (5)   It is unlawful for any owner, or other person in possession of a
multiple family, other than two-family, residential property, to place or
maintain a bird feeder(s) having a capacity in excess of 400 cubic inches.
§ 10.17 OVERUSE OF POLICE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City Council, by the adoption of this
section, to impose on and collect a fee from the person or persons in charge of
or responsible for nuisance events or activities that generate extraordinary
cost to the city over and above the cost of providing normal law enforcement
services and police protection city-wide.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      NUISANCE EVENT. An event requiring special security assignment in order
to protect the public peace, health, safety and welfare. A NUISANCE EVENT
includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Unlawful sale, possession, storage, delivering, giving,
manufacture, cultivation or use of controlled substance;
         (b)   Prostitution or prostitution-related activity;
         (c)   Illegal gambling or gambling-related activity;
         (d)   Unlicensed sales of alcoholic beverages or unlawful sales or
gifts of alcoholic beverages by an unlicensed person or underage consumption at
a specific location;
         (e)   Loud and boisterous conduct, noises and activities that disturb
the peace;
         (f)   Events between 11:00 p.m. and sunrise which disturb the peace
and tranquility of the neighborhood;
         (g)   Congregating in a tumultuous, noisy or rowdy crowd;
         (h)   Fighting or use of obscene or inflammatory language;
         (i)   Loud music constituting a nuisance or disturbing the peace;
         (j)   Activities causing excessive pedestrian or vehicular traffic and
parking problems and congestion;
         (k)   Indecent exposure or lewd conduct; and
         (l)   For the purposes of this section, the term NUISANCE EVENT shall
not include an event of domestic abuse, as that term is defined in M.S. §
518B.01, subd. 2(a), as it may be amended from time to time.
      OWNER. A person or persons shown to be owner or owners of property on the
property tax records of St. Louis County, Minnesota.
      PERSONAL SERVICE. Service by personally handing a copy to the intended
recipient or by leaving a copy at the intended recipient’s residence or place
of business with a person of suitable age and discretion.
      POLICE SERVICES FEE. A fee imposed for law enforcement services
associated with a special security assignment. The fee may be either a flat fee
of $250 or an additional amount of up to a total of $1,000 based on, but not
limited to, salaries of police officers while responding to or remaining at the
nuisance event, the pro rata cost of equipment, the cost of repairing city
equipment and property and the cost of any medical treatment of injured police
officers.
      RESPONSIBLE PERSON. A person who owns the property where the nuisance
event takes place, and/or a person in charge of the premises, and/or a person
who organized or served as a host of the nuisance event. If the RESPONSIBLE
PERSON is a minor, then the parents or guardians of that minor will also be
considered responsible persons.
      SPECIAL SECURITY ASSIGNMENT. The assignment of police officers, services
and/or equipment during a second or subsequent response to a nuisance event at
a particular location after the service of a written notice to the responsible
persons that a police services fee may be imposed for costs incurred by the
city for any subsequent police response at the location.
   (C)   Initial police response to nuisance event. When any police officer
responds to any nuisance event and determines that there is a threat to the
public peace, health, safety or general welfare, the police officer may serve a
written notice by mail or personal services to the responsible person or
persons that any subsequent police response to that same location or address
within a 90-day period shall be deemed a special security assignment and that
the responsible person or persons may be liable for a police services fee.
   (D)   Subsequent police responses; liability. If, within the period
commencing 31 days after a written notice is served pursuant to this section, a
subsequent police response or responses are necessary to the pursuant to this
section, a subsequent police response or responses are necessary to the same
location or address within a 90-day period for nuisance or nuisance related
activity, a civil penalty may be assess against the building and collected as
provided in this section. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted or
construed to require the arrest or citation of any person for violations of
federal, state or local laws or ordinances. The city reserves its rights to
seek reimbursement for costs and damages not recovered by assessment against
the building through other legal remedies and procedures. Responsible persons
who had previously received a notice of warning shall be jointly and severally
liable for a police services fee for a special security assignment. The city
reserves its rights to seek reimbursement for actual costs and damages
exceeding $1,000 through other legal remedies or procedures.
   (E)   Cost; collection. The Chief of Police shall notify the city’s Finance
Director in writing of the performance of each special security assignment, of
the name and address of the responsible person or persons, the date and time of
the incident, the services performed and the amount of the police services fee.
If the police services fee is in excess of $250, the Chief of Police shall
provide documentation to support the additional amount. The city’s Finance
Director shall, thereafter, cause appropriate billings to be made and be
responsible for the collection of the police services fee.
   (F)   Administrative appeal. An administrative appeal of a police services
fee may be made to the Chief of Police or his or her designee within ten days
from the date of mailing of the billing. The request for a hearing shall be in
writing and addressed to the Chief of Police and shall include a copy of the
billing and grounds for the appeal. The Chief of Police or his or her designee
may excuse or modify the service fee upon a finding that the responsible person
or persons had made a good faith effort to remedy the situation or that the
nuisance event was not the fault of the person or persons filing the appeal.
   (G)   Applicability of section. This section shall not be deemed to
authorize the imposition of a police services fee against a landlord for a
police response initiated by a call from a tenant for police or emergency
assistance in response to domestic abuse or any other conduct.
(Amended 9-24-2010)
§ 10.18 CAMPING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. It is unlawful for any person or persons to camp, lay or
sleep on, upon, near or about any public lands or structures belonging to or
under the control of the city after 11:00 p.m., except for such special
occasions as may be allowed by the City Council, and after proper presentation
therefor, as per City Code §
2.58. This section's regulations are meant strictly to regulate the use of
publicly-owned property, and are not intended to regulate activities on private
property.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BEDDING MATERIALS. A sleeping bag, bedroll, or other material used for
bedding purposes and dry while sleeping.
      CAMP or CAMPING. To set up or to remain in or at a campsite.
      CAMPSITE. Any place or location established or maintained as a temporary
place to live, stay, or sleep by use of any tent, lean-to, shack, tarpaulin or
use of any other type of camping equipment including but not limited to any
other mobile or temporary structure, including vehicles or part thereof.
      PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any item than can reasonably be identified as
belongings to an individual.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. As defined in City Code §
1.02.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to camp on any public property,
including but not limited to public park, recreational area, public land,
right-of-way, sidewalk, street, under any bridge or other city-owned structure,
and playgrounds within the city limits for the purpose of and with the
intention of using such structure as a campsite for any period of time;
however, the City Council may, in its discretion, designate certain public
property within the city limits which shall be available for campsites to be
used as temporary living or overnight sleeping quarters.
   (D)   Camping on or near railroad tracks, or in a manner that obstructs or
prevents the public's ability to use that public property for its intended
purpose is prohibited and can in some situations result in imminent threats to
life.
   (E)   Camping on public property within 100 feet of a privately-owned parcel
zoned for residential uses or within 100 feet of a residential structure
regardless of zoning is prohibited.
   (F)   Camping on public property within 100 feet of a designated trail or
within 100 feet of a commonly used trail, regardless of zoning is prohibited.
   (G)   An individual may utilize public property to sleep for up to four
hours in their motor vehicle. If the driver is the driver of a commercial
vehicle they may sleep for up to ten hours but must be mindful of the City Code
§§
10.37(E) (Noise violations) and
9.11 (Truck parking). Anyone choosing to sleep in a motor vehicle should be
aware that such actions will likely be brought to the attention of local law
enforcement and will potentially result in contact with local law enforcement.
   (H)   Enforcement. Any camp or campsite that is determined to be in
violation of this section shall be posted with a 72-hour notice to vacate the
area. Law enforcement shall make reasonable efforts to notify assisting
agencies to include but not limited to county social services and the CCRT
(Compassionate Community Response Team) in order to obtain assistance for the
individual or individuals once they have been notified of the requirement to
vacate.
(Ord. passed 12-13-2022)
§ 10.19 TARGETED PICKETING IN RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOODS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The City Council finds that targeted residential picketing in front
of or about a residential dwelling causes emotional distress to the dwelling
occupants, obstructs and interferes with the free use of public rights-of-way
and has as its object the harassment of the dwelling occupants.
      (2)   The City Council further finds that, without resorting to targeted
residential picketing, ample opportunities exist for those otherwise engaged in
targeted residential picketing to exercise constitutionally protected freedom
of speech and expression.
      (3)   The protection and preservation of the home is the keystone of
democratic government; the public health and welfare and the good order of the
community require that members of the community enjoy, in their homes and
dwellings, a feeling of wellbeing, tranquility and privacy and, when absent
from their homes and dwellings, carry with them the sense of security inherent
in the assurance that they may return to the enjoyment of their homes,
dwellings and neighborhood; the practice of picketing before or about
residences and dwellings causes emotional disturbance and distress to the
occupants, obstructs and interferes with the free use of public sidewalks and
public ways of travel; such practice has as its object the harassing of such
occupants and, without resort to such practice, full opportunity exists, and
under the terms and provisions of this section, will continue to exist for the
exercise of freedom of speech and their constitutional rights; and that the
provisions hereinafter enacted are necessary for the public interest to avoid
the detrimental results herein set forth.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, TARGETED RESIDENTIAL
PICKETING  means:
      (1)   Marching, standing, or patrolling by one or more persons directed
solely at a particular residential building in a manner that adversely affects
the safety, security, or privacy of an occupant of the building;
      (2)   Marching, standing, or patrolling by one or more persons which
prevents an occupant of a residential building from gaining access to or
exiting from the property on which the residential building is located; or
      (3)   Marching, patrolling, or any picketing activity by one or more
persons directed at or nearby to a residential dwelling, without the consent of
the dwelling's occupants.
   (C)   Prohibited activity. No person shall engage in targeted residential
picketing within the city.
   (D)   Violation/penalty. Every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 2-27-2024)
§§ 10.20 THROUGH 10.29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 10.30 STORAGE AND TREATMENT OF ELM WOOD.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The city has determined that the holder of
bark-intact elm wood, in any form, is forbidden. Furthermore, elm bark beetles
breed and multiply in firewood, logs, branches and bark-on stumps. Hereafter,
all elm wood with bark on shall be termed hazardous wood.
   (B)   Procedure; storage and removal of hazardous wood.
      (1)   The inspection of hazardous wood on public and private properties
shall be an on-going activity of the city by and through its Park Commission.
      (2)   All hazardous wood being stored on private or public property
within the city shall be stored in plain view and shall be stored outdoors and
not within any enclosed structure that prohibits easily accessible inspection.
      (3)   If hazardous wood is found on public or private property, the Park
Commission shall give written notice to the property.
      (4)   If hazardous wood is found between March 11 and September 30, the
owner of wood shall have five days from the date of notification to completely
debark the wood, burn the wood under proper city burning regulations or deposit
the wood in a proper manner at the city’s elm wood disposal site.
      (5)   If hazardous wood is found between October 1 and March 10, the
owner shall have 20 days to comply with the above mentioned procedures.
      (6)   Failure to comply with these regulations set forth shall result in
the removal of the hazardous wood by the city or its contractor and all
resulting costs shall be billed directly to the owner or assessed on his or her
taxes.
(Ord. 119, effective 9-29-1979)
§ 10.31 MINNESOTA UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   (A)   Adoption. The 2015 Minnesota Fire Code and Appendices, as adopted
pursuant to M.S. § 299F.011, hereinafter referred to as MSFC, as it may be
amended from time to time, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for the city. One
copy of the code shall be marked “CITY OF VIRGINIA OFFICIAL COPY” and kept on
file in the office of the City Clerk and open to the inspection and use of the
public.
   (B)   Storage of flammable and explosives material. No bulk plants for
storage of flammable and combustible liquids, or bulk storage of liquefied
petroleum gas, not established on the effective date of this section, shall be
permitted. No storage of explosives or blasting agents shall be permitted.
   (C)   Recreational fires. Recreational fires will be allowed without a
permit, but subject to limitations which will be strictly enforced.
      (1)   Definition. An outdoor fire burning cleaned dry firewood a minimum
of one inch in diameter, is not contained within an outdoor fireplace, portable
outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill, or barbeque pit. Used for cooking, pleasure,
warmth or similar purposes.
      (2)   Use. All recreational fires must comply with division (F) of this
section in addition to the following restrictions:
         (a)   All recreational fires must be in a fire ring with border
designed from natural rock, cement, brick, tile or block ferrous metal only.
Fire ring area may be depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised bed.
         (b)   Fire rings shall be no more than three feet in diameter with a
maximum flame height of three feet high.
         (c)   Only cleaned dry firewood may be burned, with a minimum of one
inch in diameter. No brush, yard, building, household waste or treated wood may
be burned.
         (d)   The fire must be located on the owner’s own property and a
minimum of 25 feet from all property lines.
         (e)   Fires are not allowed if winds are in excess of 15 mph. Current
weather conditions may be checked on the National Weather Service website.
Enter the zip code into search box for current conditions.
         (f)   Recreational fires shall not be constructed within 25 feet of
any structure.
   (D)   Portable outdoor fireplaces. A portable outdoor solid fuel-burning
fireplace will be allowed without a permit, but subject to limitations that
will be strictly enforced.
      (1)   Construction. Portable outdoor fireplaces may be constructed of
steel, concrete, clay, or other noncombustible material. A portable outdoor
fireplace may be open in design, or may be equipped with a small hearth opening
and a short chimney or chimney opening in the top.
      (2)   Use. Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated within 15 feet of a
structure, combustible materials and property lines.
      (3)   All portable outdoor fireplace use must comply with division (F) of
this section.
   (E)   Portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances. A portable outdoor gas-
fired burning fireplace will be allowed without a permit, but subject to
limitations, which will be strictly enforced.
      (1)   Storage and use.
         (a)   Portable gas-fired heating appliances and their tank(s) shall be
listed and approved by UL or ASTM standards and installed and maintained
according to the manufacturer’s instructions.
         (b)   The storage or use of portable outdoor gas-fired heating
appliances is prohibited in any of the following locations:
            1.   Inside any occupancy when connected to the fuel gas container.
            2.   Inside of tents, canopies, and membrane structures.
            3.   On exterior balconies.
         (c)   Tip-over protection and contact guards shall be in place where
required.
         (d)   If units are to be fixed or adhered by any means, construction
must follow the building, mechanical code and other codes applicable to the
installation, as well as the fire code, and a permit shall be required as per §
11.50.
      (2)   Location. Portable gas-fired heating appliances shall be located at
least five feet from buildings, five feet from combustibles and five feet from
exits. The fire must be located on the owner’s own property and must be a
minimum of five feet from a property line.
      (3)   All portable outdoor gas-fired heating appliances use must comply
with division (F) of this section.
   (F)   Regulations for recreational fires, outdoor fireplaces, and outdoor
gas-fired heating appliances.
      (1)   Burning will be allowed from 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 (midnight) any day
of the week, with a maximum of six hours for any fire on any given day of the
week.
      (2)   All fires and use of devices recognized in this section shall be
constantly attended by an adult person knowledgeable in the use of fire
extinguishing equipment and an adult attendant supervises the fire until the
fire has been completely extinguished or terminated. Any means of controlling
the fire must be available at all times (buckets, shovels and garden hoses, for
example).
      (3)   Any police or fire officer may withdraw permission for the fires,
due to climatic conditions, extreme dryness, nuisance problems, including
offensive odor or smoke in the neighborhood, or violations of the guidelines.
      (4)   A person violating any recreational fire provisions of this section
is subject to an administrative fine of $25. A second violation within 12
months of a previous violation is subject to an administrative citation with a
penalty of two times the previously imposed penalty. All costs incurred as a
result of the burn including, but not limited to, fire suppression,
administrative fees, property damage and personal injuries will be the
responsibility of the adult in charge or the homeowner.
(Amended 5-25-2013; Am. Ord. passed 8-27-2019)
§ 10.32 MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is the primary responsibility of any owner or occupant of any lot
or parcel of land to maintain any weeds or grass growing thereon at a height of
not more than six inches; to remove all public health or safety hazards
therefrom; to install or repair water service lines thereon; and to treat or
remove insect- infested or diseased trees thereon.
   (B)   If any owner or occupant fails to assume the primary responsibility
described in division (A) above, and after notice given by the City Clerk has
not within seven days of the notice complied, the city may cause the work to be
done and the expenses thus incurred shall be a lien upon the real estate. The
City Clerk shall certify to the County Auditor a statement of the amount of the
cost incurred by the city. The amount together with interest shall be entered
as a special assessment against the lot or parcel of land and be collected in
the same manner as real estate taxes.
§ 10.33 STORAGE OF WOOD.
   (A)   “Wood” defined. The term WOOD, as used in this section, means wood
kept for use as a heating fuel.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It is unlawful to keep or store wood on private
property:
      (1)   For more than 30 days which has not been cut and neatly piled in
stacks not exceeding ten feet in length and 12 inches in width;
      (2)   Which is infested with, or inhabited by, rats, rodents or other
vermin; and
      (3)   Piled higher than four and one-half feet unless the same has been
cut in lengths not exceeding 18 inches and stacked in a solid circular stack.
§ 10.34 ABANDONING A MOTOR VEHICLE.
   It is unlawful for any person to abandon a motor vehicle on any public or
private property without the consent of the person in control of the property.
For the purpose of this section, a MOTOR VEHICLE is as defined in M.S. Ch. 169,
as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 10.35 PHRENOLOGISTS, CLAIRVOYANTS, ASTROLOGISTS AND FORTUNE TELLING;
PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to accept a fee,
compensation or thing of value from another in the course of practicing
phrenology, clairvoyance, fortune telling or astrology. It is also unlawful for
any person to, in any manner or by any device, hold himself or herself out as a
phrenologist, clairvoyant, astrologist or fortune teller, or as having the
ability to foretell past, present or future events, happenings or conditions of
or to an individual natural person.
   (B)   Exception. This section does not apply to a bona fide historian making
a written record of past or present events, whose only compensation will be
from the publication and sale of the record to the public, nor does it apply to
an occupation specifically licensed, regulated, allowed or permitted by statute
or provisions of the city code.
§ 10.36 WEAPONS/FIREARMS PROHIBITED ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Policy. It is the policy of the city to protect the public health,
safety and welfare; to protect employees of the city from fear of serious
injuries or death caused by pistols; to protect city employees by reducing the
potential for discharge of firearms at city work sites; and to reduce the
potential for discharge of firearms on city property by prohibiting the
carrying and possession of pistols on city property where members of the public
may be present, in public areas, or at public activities and by prohibiting the
carrying and possession of pistols at city work sites.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY PROPERTY. Any building or recreation center that is owned, operated
or controlled by the city, possessed or controlled by a city authority which
was created and exists pursuant to a state or federal law.
      PISTOL. A weapon designed to be fired with the use of a single hand and
as defined in M.S. § 624.712, subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
or its successor.
   (C)   Prohibited acts. No person shall possess a pistol or otherwise be in
possession or control of a pistol on city property, nor shall a person carry a
pistol on city property, whether or not that person has been issued a permit
pursuant to M.S. §§ 624.711 through 624.717, as they may be amended from time
to time, and whether or not that person engages in activities for which the
permit has been issued. No activities or ceremonies involving pistols shall be
held on city property.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The prohibitions of division (C) above shall not apply to any
member of the Armed Forces of the United States while engaged in the
performance of a duty in compliance with a statute, regulation, rule or order
duly promulgated and issued under the authority of the Federal Government; to
any member of the militia of the state while engaged in the performance of a
duty prescribed by law; not to any licensed peace officer authorized by state
law to possess or carry firearms, nor to a person duly licensed and permitted
to possess a pistol who is on duty performing security services as part of his
or her employment as a security guard.
      (2)   The prohibitions of division (C) above shall not apply to any
federal agent who is authorized to carry a pistol nor to any person possessing,
transporting or carrying a pistol in commerce in accordance with applicable
federal law.
(Adopted 6-24-2003)
Statutory reference:
   Allowing governmental subdivisions to regulate the discharge of firearms,
see M.S. § 471.633(a)
   Possession of rifles and shotguns is prohibited in a public place, see M.S.
§ 624.7181
§ 10.37 PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Public nuisance prohibition. A person must not act, or fail to act, in
a manner that is or causes a public nuisance. For purpose of this section, a
person that does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public
nuisance:
      (1)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
      (2)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of- way or waters used by the public; or
      (3)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this section to
be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Public nuisances affecting health. The following are hereby declared
to be nuisances affecting health:
      (1)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or
vegetable matter;
      (2)   All diseased animals running at large;
      (3)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
      (4)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
      (5)   Accumulation of manure, refuse or other debris;
      (6)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-
tight or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit
foul and disagreeable odors;
      (7)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal
or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
      (8)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public
or private property;
      (9)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
      (10)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
      (11)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not
operating under local license.
   (C)   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency. The following are
hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and decency:
      (1)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
      (2)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
      (3)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
      (4)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is manufactured
or disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2% malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
      (5)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or
3.2% malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral
or illegal purpose.
   (D)   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety. The following are
declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
      (1)   All snow and ice that is not removed from public sidewalks within
24 hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased
to fall;
      (2)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
      (3)   All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
      (4)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that
causes the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet or repose of another
person;
      (5)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
      (6)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this section or other applicable law;
      (7)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
      (8)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any
use of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds or people to
gather, obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
including the use of the public streets for panhandling, vagrancy or other
nuisance type offenses;
      (9)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over
streets and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
      (10)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building
or structure upon any street or sidewalk or to follow across any sidewalk;
      (11)   Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet above the ground
and within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
      (12)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place or so
situated or operated on private property as to attract the public;
      (13)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
      (14)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery,
household appliances, automobile bodies or other materials in a manner
conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth
of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire,
health or other safety hazards from the accumulation;
      (15)   Any well, hole or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person
coming on the premises where it is located;
      (16)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with hash or other materials;
      (17)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
      (18)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
      (19)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding
0.5 footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the
lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel and one footcandle
when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel; and
      (20)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to
the person or property of another.
   (E)   Noise violations.
      (1)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared to be nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace or welfare:
         (a)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety or welfare of any person, or precludes his or her enjoyment of property
or affects his or her property’s value (this general prohibition is not limited
by any specific restrictions provided in this section);
         (b)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation
of Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this section by reference;
         (c)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
         (d)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of
the exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading or
unpacking of any vehicle; and
         (f)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district, except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric-, diesel- or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
         (d)   Radios, music devices, paging systems and the like. The
operation of any device referred to in division (A)(6) above between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the
property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation, alteration or project that may be
considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each such statement
and take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license
or permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
   (F)   Nuisance parking and storage.
      (1)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
         (a)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
         (b)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
         (c)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
         (d)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where
commercial advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
         (e)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ use and enjoyment
of their property and neighborhood; and/or
         (f)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
      (2)   Unlawful parking and storage.
         (a)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front
property line.
         (b)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
         (c)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements.
            1.   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of non-residential characteristics of
the property. The maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional guests
who do not reside on the property.
            2.   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
areas must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
            3.   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away from school for periods of time, but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
   (G)   Inoperable motor vehicles.
      (1)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this
section shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of
the community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
      (2)   Inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep, park,
store or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition,
partially dismantled, used for repair of parts or as a source of repair or
replacement parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling or
salvage of any kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation within the
state, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (3)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed
in a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible.
   (H)   Duties of city officers. City officials may apply and enforce any
provision of this section relating to public nuisances within this
jurisdiction. Any peace officer or other designated city official shall have
the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions to
prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in emergency
situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no peace officer or
designated city official will enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing entry.
   (I)   Abatement procedure.
      (1)   Procedure. Whenever the peace officer or other designated official
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
in the city, the official shall notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of the fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate
the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the
notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the
official shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the
City Council may, after notice to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to
be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation is
a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving
a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement
or obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
      (2)   Notice. Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of the City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served by a peace officer or designated official on the owner of record or
occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered mail.
If the premise is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or if the owner
of record or occupant refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall
be served by positing it on the premises.
      (3)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency,
where delay in abatement required to complete the procedure and notice
requirements as set forth in divisions (I)(1) and (I)(2) above will permit a
continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare,
the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To
proceed with summary enforcement, the peace officer or other designated
official shall determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained
on premises in the city and that delay in abatement will unreasonably endanger
public health, safety or welfare. The officer or designated official shall
notify in writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the
nuisance, whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably
endangered by delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth
in division (I)(1) above and may order that the nuisance be immediately
terminated or abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated,
the City Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
      (4)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
that poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
      (5)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines
that a gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under
division (I)(4) above, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disburse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do
so by law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge
of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped.
      (6)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city
from seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy
exists.
   (J)   Recovery of cost.
      (1)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance
has been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other city
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon,
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk.
      (2)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061,
as it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as well as other charges
for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and any other pertinent statutes for certification to the
County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in
annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in
each case.
   (K)   Penalty. Any person convicted of violating any provision of this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the
costs of prosecution in either case.
   (L)   Severability. If any provision of this section is found to be invalid
for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the
remaining provisions shall not be affected.
(Adopted 10-26-2013)
§ 10.38 BANNING THE SALE, POSSESSION, TRANSFER OR MANUFACTURE OF SYNTHETIC OR
ALTERNATIVE DRUGS.
   (A)   Prohibitions; sale, possession, transfer, manufacture of synthetic or
alternative drugs.
      (1)   A person is guilty of a violation of this section if he or she
sells, possesses, transfers or manufactures any substance or product containing
any quantity of synthetic or alternative drug, as defined under this section.
      (2)   All substances made unlawful by this section shall constitute
contraband, subject to immediate seizure by law enforcement and shall be
destroyed upon a conviction for a violation of this section.
      (3)   The substances defined in this section shall not include
medications or substances for which the possessing party holds a valid
prescription or beer, wine or intoxicating liquors as defined by local, state
and federal laws.
      (4)   Products commercially available and sold which have common, proven
and lawful uses under local, state and federal law shall not be deemed unlawful
by this section. Examples are prescription and over the counter medications,
health supplements where the ingredients are listed on the packaging, food and
drink products and the like.
      (5)   In addition to the definitions provided in this section, the
following additional factors shall be considered in making the determination if
a substance is unlawful under this section:
         (a)   Scope of legitimate uses of the product;
         (b)   Physical and testimonial evidence provided by officers and
prosecutors regarding known uses of the product;
         (c)   Statements made by persons selling, possessing, and using the
product;
         (d)   Availability of the product to include types and number of area
businesses selling it;
         (e)   The ratio of the price of the product compared to the quantity
sold; and
         (f)   The proximity of the product in relation to devices used to
ingest or consume controlled substances.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      MANUFACTURE. To complete, blend, formulate, package, repackage or develop
by any means any substance made unlawful by this section.
      POSSESSION. To possess on one’s own person or possession by a person
exercising dominion or control over the immediate area where contraband is
found whether in a vehicle, vessel, container, dwelling, building or other
structure, whether upon public or private property.
      SALE/TRANSFER. To offer for sale, to advertise for sale, to sell, to
distribute, to furnish, to transfer, to barter or to exchange to any person or
entity with or without an exchange of compensation or service.
      SALVIA DIVINORUM/SALVINORUM. All parts of the plant presently classified
botanically as salvia divinorum whether growing or not, the seeds thereof, any
extract from any part of the plant and every compound, manufacture, salts,
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or extracts.
      SYNTHETIC STIMULANT.
         (a)   A product that contains a synthetic chemical compound that
elicits psychoactive or psychotropic stimulant effects, especially where those
products are in a powder, crystal or granular form, including, but not limited
to, the following:
            1.   3,4-Methylenedioxymethcathinone (Methylone);
            2.   3,4-Methyenedioxpyrovalerone (MDPV);
            3.   4-Methymethcathinone (Mephedrone);
            4.   4-Methoxymethcathinone (Methedrone);
            5.   4-Fluoromethcathinone (Flephedrone);
            6.   3-Fluoromethcathinone (3-FMC);
            7.   Naphthylpyrovalerone; and
            8.   2-amino-lphenyl-l-propanone (Cathinone).
         (b)   SYNTHETIC STIMULANTS, despite their labeling, are commonly
identified by being sold in small packets, tubs, and vials, packaged under
various retail names, often identified as bath salts, plant food, fertilizer,
insect repellant and the like and are usually powder or granular in form, sold
without a listing of ingredients and sold with disclaimers warning against
ingestion and stating they are free of controlled substances. By virtue of this
section, such products are unlawful.
         (c)   SYNTHETIC STIMULANTS, often referred to as “bath salts” are
commonly marketed under various commercial trade names, which changed often,
and contain a common disclaimer that the products are “not safe for human
consumption”, “novelty item” or similar disclaimer. Refer to division (E) below
for a listing of commercial names commonly used to advertise and portray these
substances.
         (d)   SYNTHETIC STIMULANTS, as defined in this section, shall exclude
normal, typical bath salts and bath additives which do not contain synthetic
chemicals compounds listed herein that elicit psychoactive or psychotropic
stimulant effects. Standard bath salts primarily contain magnesium sulfate
(Epsom salts) sodium chloride (table salt) sodium bicarbonate (baking soda),
sodium hexametaphosphate (Calgon), amorphous/glassy sodium metaphosphate,
sodium sesquicarbonate and borax.
      SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA/ SYNTHETIC CANNABANOIDS/HERBAL SMOKING PRODUCT.
         (a)   A natural or human-made substance that elicits psychoactive or
psychotropic euphoric effects or a natural or human-made compound that
functions similar to the active ingredient in marijuana (tetrachydrocannabinol
“THC”) including, but not limited to, any quantity of a synthetic material,
mixture, preparation, substance and their analogs (including isomers, esters,
ethers, salts and salts of isomers) containing a cannabinoid receptor agonist,
regardless of whether the substance is marketed for the purpose of being
consumed, including any of the following:
            1.   2(3-hydroxycyclohexyl) phenol with substitution at the 5-
position of the phenolic ring by alkyl or alkenyl, whether or not substituted
on the cycloliexyl ring to any extent;
            2.   3-(l-naphthoyl) indole or 3-(l-naphthylmethane) indole by
substitution at the nitrogen atom of the indole ring, whether or not further
substituted on the indole ring to any extent, whether or not substituted on the
naphthoyl or naphthyl ring to any extent;
            3.   3-(l-naphthoyl) pyrrole by substitution at the nitrogen atom
of the pyrrole ring, whether or not further substituted in the pyrrole ring to
any extent, whether or not substituted on the naphthoyl ring to any extent;
            4.   l-(l-naphthylmethylene) indene by substitution of the 3-
positon of the indene ring, whether or not further substituted in the indene
ring to any extent, whether or not substituted on the naphthyl ring to any
extent;
            5.   3-phenylacetylindole or 3-benzoylindole by substitution at the
nitrogen atom of the indole ring, whether or not further substituted in the
indole ring to any extent, whether or not substitution on the phenyl ring to
any extent;
            6.   5-(l, l-dimethylheptyl)-2-[lR, 3S)-3-hydroxycyclohexyl]-phenol
(CP-47, 497);
            7.   5-(l, 1 dimethyloctyl)-2-[lR, #S)-3-hydroxycycloheyl] phenol
(cannabicyclohexanol or CP-47, 497 C8-homolog);
            8.   l-pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole (JWH-018 and AM678);
            9.   l-pentyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole (JWH-073);
            10.   1-hexyl-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole (JWH-019);
            11.   l-[2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl]-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole(JWH-200);
            12.   l-pentyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole(JWH250);
            13.   l-pentyl-3-[l-(4-methyl-lnaphthoyl)indole(JWH-081);
            14.   l-pentyl-3-(4-methyl-l-naphthoyl)indole(JWH-122);
            15.   l-pentyl-3-(4-chloro-i-naphthoyl)indole(JWH398);
            16.   l-(5-flouropentyl)-3-(l-naphthoyl)indole(AM2201);
            17.   l-(5-fluoropenty le)-3(2-iodobenzoyl)indole(AM694);
            18.   l-pentyl-3-[(4-methoyxy)-benzoyl]indole(SR-19 and RCS-4);
            19.   l-cycloliexylethyl-3-(2-methoxyphenylacetyl)indole (SR-18 and
RCS-8); and
            20.   l-pentyl-3-(2-chlorophenylacetyl)indole(JWH-203)
         (b)   HERBAL SMOKING PRODUCTS, despite their labeling, are commonly
identified by being sold in small packets containing natural or human-made
substances, packaged under various retail names, identified as herbal
potpourri, herbal sachet, herbal aromatherapy and the like, sold without a
listing of ingredients, and sold with disclaimers warning against ingestion and
stating they are free of controlled substances. By virtue of this section, such
products are unlawful.
         (c)   SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA/SYNTHETIC CANNABINOIDS/HERBAL SMOKING
PRODUCTS are commonly marketed under various commercial trade names, which
change often, and contain a common disclaimer that the products are “not safe
for human consumption”, “novelty item” or similar disclaimer. Refer to division
(E) below for a listing of commercial names commonly used to advertise and
portray these substances.
         (d)   SYNTHETIC MARIJUANA/SYNTHETIC CANNABANOIDS/HERBAL SMOKING
PRODUCT shall exclude typical, standard incense and potpourri that is sold as
incense sticks, oils or cones that is commonly used for aromatic qualities and
do not contain any synthetic chemical compounds, do not provide a prohibition
against ingestion, and do not elicit psychoactive or psychotropic euphoric
effects.
      SYNTHETIC/ALTERNATIVE DRUG. Any of the following:
         (a)   Any substance containing a synthetic cannabinoid, stimulant,
psychedelic, depressant or hallucinogenic;
         (b)   Salvia divinorum or any substance known by this name or any
version of this name;
         (c)   Substances described as herbal blends, botanical blends,
botanical sachet, herbal sachet, herbal potpourri, herbal incense, spice, salts
or any blend or combination of these, even though the substance is marketed as
“not for human consumption” which if ingested causes intoxication, euphoria,
giddiness, paralysis, irrational behavior or in any manner changes, distorts or
disturbs the auditory, visual or mental process;
         (d)   Any substance defined in subsequent portions of this section;
         (e)   Any substance which has a stimulant, depressant, psychedelic,
psychotropic or hallucinogenic effect on the body that is substantially similar
to or greater than that of any controlled substance or unlawful drug; or
         (f)   Any substance marked or packaged under any name listed in
division (E) below.
      SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELICS/ HALLUCINOGENS.
         (a)   A substance that mimics the effects of any federally or state
controlled substance, including, but not limited to, any natural or human-made
substance, compound, mixture, preparation or is laced with a synthetic chemical
compound that elicits a psychedelic/hallucinogenic effect including, but not
limited to, the following:
            1.   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-ethylphenyl) ethanamine(2C-E);
            2.   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-methylphenyl) ethanamine(2C-D);
            3.   2-(4-Chloror-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine(2C-C);
            4.   2-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine(2C-I);
            5.   2-[4-Ethylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl] ethanamine(2C-T-2);
            6.   2-[4-Isopropylthio)-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl] ethanamine(2C-T-4);
            7.   2-(2,5-Dimethoxyphenyl) ethanamine(2C-H);
            8.   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-nitio-phenyl) ethanamine(2C-N); and
            9.   2-(2,5-Dimethoxy-4-(n)-propylphenyl)ethanamine (2C-P).
         (b)   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELICS/HALLUCINOGENS, despite their labeling,
are commonly identified by being sold in small packets, tubs or vials and are
often in tablet, capsule and liquid form and packaged under various retail
names, sold without a listing of ingredients, and often sold with disclaimers
warning against ingestion and stating they are free of controlled substances.
By virtue of this section, such products are unlawful.
         (c)   SYNTHETIC PSYCHEDELICS/HALLUCINOGENS are commonly marketed under
various commercial trade names, which change often, and contain a common
disclaimer that the products are “not safe for human consumption”, “novelty
item” or similar disclaimer. They may also be marked in a consumable pill form
under various names. Refer to division (E) below for listing of commercial
names commonly used to advertise and portray these substances.
   (C)   Enforcement and civil penalty. The city deems synthetic and
alternative drugs dangerous and detrimental to the citizens, guests and fabric
of the community of the city, it bans the sale, possession, transfer and or
manufacturing of synthetic drugs or alternative drugs.
      (1)   Individuals involved in the sale, transfer or manufacturing. A
civil penalty of each offense will be $500 for the first violation; $1,000
second violation and any violations thereafter shall be charged as a
misdemeanor, with up to 90 days in jail, and subject to the sanctions of the
District Court.
      (2)   Individuals that are in possession. A civil penalty of each
possession offense will be $100 for the first offense; $300 for the second
offense; $500 for the third offense; $800 for the fourth; and every offense
thereafter shall be $1,000.
   (D)   Severability. If any clause, sentence, paragraph, division or part of
this law or the application thereof to any person, individual, corporation,
firm, partnership, entity or circumstance shall be adjudged by any court of
competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unconstitutional, the order or judgment
shall not affect, impair or invalidate the remainder thereof, but shall be
confined in its operation to the clause, sentence, paragraph, division or part
of this law, or in its application to the person, individual, corporation,
firm, partnership, entity or circumstance directly involved in the controversy
in which the order or judgment shall be rendered.
   (E)   Unlawful and synthetic drugs. Substances described in this section and
distributed under the commercial/retail names contained in this division (E)
shall be deemed to be unlawful and synthetic drugs, especially if they are
packaged in a manner that indicates the product is “not for human consumption”
or if it fails to disclose the products ingredients. Products commercially sold
under similar or like names, which have common, proven and lawful uses and
which list their ingredients and directions for use, shall not be deemed
unlawful under this section.
      (1)   8-BALL,251,2c-l;
      (2)   AFGAN BLACK, AM-HI-CO (ALL TYPES), APHRODISIA, ATOMIC BOMB, AZTEC
GOLD, AZTEC MIGHNIGHT WIND TEZCATLIPOC;
      (3)   BACK DRAFT, BAD 2 THE BONE, BANANA CREAM NUKE, BATH SALT, BAYOU
BLASTER, BIGDADDY, BLACK DIAMOND, BLACK MAGIC SALVIA, BLACK MAMBA, BLISS (ALL
TYPES), BLIZZARD, BLUE SILK, BLUEBERRY HAYZE, BLUEBERRY HAZE, BOMBAY BLUE,
BONZAI, BROMO-DRANGONFLY, BUZZ;
      (4)   C3, C4, C4 HERBAL INCENSE, CANEFF, CHARGE PLUS, CHERRY BOMB,
CHILLX, CHRONIC SPICE, CILL OUT, CITRUS, CLOUD 9, COLORADO CHRONIC;
      (5)   DA BLOCK, DARK NIGHT ii, DEMOND, DEVIL EYE, DEX, DIAMOND SPIRIT,
DOVES, DRAGON SPICE, D-RAIL, DREAM, DYNATMITE N-R-G;
      (6)   EARTHQUAKE, ERUPTION SPICE, EUPHORIA, EXOTIC ULTRA, EXSES, EX-SES
PLATINNUM (ALL TYPES), EX-SES GOLD PLUS, EXTREME SPICE;
      (7)   FAKE WEEK, FERTILIZER, FIRE BIRD ULTIMATE STRENGTH CINNAMON, FOREST
HUMUS, FREEDOM, FULLY LOADED, FUNKY MONKEY XXXX;
      (8)   G FOUR, G GREENIES CARAMEL CRUNCH, GENIE (ALL TYPES), GLASS
CLEANER, GEM, GOLD SPIRIT SPICE, GREEN MONKEY CHRONIC SALVIA, GREENIES
STRAWBERRY, GROW;
      (9)   HEAD RUSH ULTRA, HEAVEN IMPROVED, HEAVENSCENT SUAVE, HERBAL
ECSTASY, HIOCTANE, HUMBOLDT GOLD, HURRICANE, HUSH, HYPER X ULTRA;
      (10)   ICE BUD, IVORY (ALL TYPES);
      (11)   JAMAICAN GOLD, JOKER;
      (12)   K ROYAL, Kl (ALL TYPES), K2 (ALL TYPES), K3 (ALL TYPES), K4 (ALL
TYPES), KIND SPICE, SW ORISHA MAX, KRUSH;
      (13)   LEGAL EAGLE (ALL TYPES), LEGAL;
      (14)   MAGIC DRAGO PLATINUM, MAGIC GOLD, MAGIC SILVER, MAGIC SPICE, MAYA
BLUE, MEGA BOMB, MELLOMAN, MELLOW MADNESS 1 A, METHOXETAMINE, MID-ATLANTIC
EXEMPLAR (ALL TYPES), MIDNIGHT CHILL, MIND BLISS, MNGB ALMOND/VANILA, MNGB (ALL
TYPES), MOE JOE FIRE, MOJO (ALL TYPES), MR. SMILEY’S, MTN-787, MYSTERY;
      (15)   NATURAL ECSTASY, NATURAL LSD, NAUGHTY NIGHTS, NEUTRONTUM, NEW
IMPROVED K3 (ALL TYPES), NEW K3 (ALL TYPES) NEW-KRON BOMB, NITRO, NUMBER ONE
CHOICE (ALL TYPES);
      (16)   OCEAN BLUE, OCEAN BURST (ALL TYPES);
      (17)   P.E.P. POTPOURRI (ALL TYPES), PARADISE, PINK LOTUS, PINK TIGER,
PIXIE DUST, PLANT FOOD, POSH, POTPOURRI (ALL TYPES) POW, PULSE, PUMP IT POWDER,
PURE IVORY, PURPLE WAVE;
      (18)   QUICK SILVER;
      (19)   RADIOACTIVE, RASTA CITRUS SPICE, REBEL SPICE, RECHARGE (ALL
TYPES);
      (20)   SENCE, SERENITY (ALL TYPES), SEX INTENSE, SETACY (ALL TYPES),
SHAMANTRANCE, SHANTI SPICE (ALL TYPES), SILENT BLACK, SKINK, SMOKE, SMOKE PLUS,
SNOW LEOPARD, SOLAR STAR GOLD SPACE (ALL TYPES), SPACETRIPS, SPEED FREAK, SPICE
(ALL TYPES), SPICERY (ALL TYPES), SPICEY XXX (ALL TYPES), SPICYLICIOUS, SPICE
99 (ALL TYPES), SPIKE 99 (ALL TYPES), SPIKE (ALL TYPES), STARDUST, STARRY
NIGHT, STINGER, SUMMER SKYY, SUPER KUSH, SUPER SUMMIT, SWAGGER GRAPE, SYN (ALL
TYPES);
      (21)   TEXAS GOLD, TIME WARP, TNT, TRIBAL WARRIOR (ALL TYPES),
TRANQUILITY;
      (22)   ULTRA CLOUD 10, UNKNOWN CIGARETTE, UTOPIA (ALL TYPES);
      (23)   V8, VANILLA SKY, VOO DOO (ALL TYPES);
      (24)   WHITE (ALL TYPES), WHO DAT (ALL TYPES), WICKED X, WILD OPIUM,
WINDER BOOST, WINDOW CLEANER, WOOD STOCK;
      (25)   XTC, X-TRACY ULTRA;
      (26)   YOCANTAN FIRE, YUCANTAN FIRE;
      (27)   ZOMBIE WORLD, ZOOM Z. BLACK DIAMOND;
      (28)   TRIPLE XXX PLURBOM;
      (29)   WTF;
      (30)   ZERO GRAVITY;
      (31)   HAVE YOU SEEN MOLLY; and
      (32)   BIZZARRO.
§ 10.39 RENTAL REGISTRATION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to ensure that all rental units in
the city are decent, safe, sanitary and operated and maintained in a manner
that avoids the creation of a nuisance to the neighborhood, an influence that
fosters blight and deterioration, or creates a disincentive to neighborhood
reinvestment. The Council finds that providing for the public health, safety
and welfare of its citizens occupying rental units requires a program that not
only corrects substandard housing conditions and enforces a minimum
habitability standard for rental units, but that also provides for the quiet
enjoyment of the normal activities of life for occupants of rental properties
and for the neighborhoods in which such rental properties are located.
   (B)   Virginia Property Maintenance and Preservation Code. The City of
Virginia has adopted the Virginia Property Maintenance and Preservation Code as
Ch. 17 of the City Code. Adoption of amendments and new editions to
Ch. 17 of the City Code shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Applicability of section. This section shall apply to all rental
dwellings, rental dwelling units, housekeeping units, rooming units, rental
units, buildings and premises located within the city, except that it shall not
apply to suites and sleeping rooms in hotels, motels, or motor inns which are
let to the public for periods of less than one month and to common areas in
such hotels.
   (D)   Inspections; enforcement; fees.
      (1)    For the purposes of attaining uniform acceptable building and
maintenance standards in the city and enforcing this chapter, the Code Official
is hereby authorized to enter, examine and survey, between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 5:00 p.m. all dwellings, dwelling units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and other building and premises. The Code Official, prior to making such
inspection, shall inform the owner or their agent of the date and time of the
inspection by written notice. After notice has been given, the owner, occupant
or the person in charge of the premises to be inspected, shall give the Code
Official free access to conduct the inspection. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to prohibit the entry of the Code Official:
         (a)   At any time when in the opinion of the Code Official an actual
emergency tending to create an immediate danger to public health and safety
exists; or
         (b)   At any time when such inspection, examination or survey may be
requested by the owner or occupant;
      (2)   When an order to correct as provided in this chapter has been
issued, the Code Official is hereby authorized to enter and re-inspect the
premises. The re-inspection shall be made by the Code Official and any other
public officers as deemed appropriate by the Code Official. The owner, occupant
or the person in charge of the premises shall give free access to the premises
for the re-inspection;
      (3)   Every occupant of a rental dwelling, dwelling unit or housekeeping
unit shall give the owner thereof, or his agent or employee, access to any part
of the premises, at all reasonable times, for the purpose of making repairs or
alterations necessary to effect compliance with the provisions of this chapter
or any lawful order issued pursuant to this chapter.
   (E)   Service of notice and orders.
      (1)   Whenever the Code Official determines that there exists a violation
of any provisions of this chapter, notice of the violation shall be issued to
the owner of record or the owner's agent if known, as hereinafter provided.
Such notice shall:
         (a)   Be written;
         (b)   Identify the violations;
         (c)   Provide a correction deadline. In determining the deadline, the
Code Official shall consider, along with all other pertinent factors, the
nature and extent of the work involved, the season of the year and the
existence of any immediate danger to public health and safety;
         (d)   The notice may be delivered by any reasonable means including,
but not limited to personal delivery, e-mail notification or by United States
mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of the owner or owner's agent,
or by posting the notice in a conspicuous place on or about the premises;
      (2)   Notices served pursuant to this section shall become final orders
unless an appeal is filed as provided in §
10.40(F). All final orders shall be complied with or the premises vacated by
the deadline provided in the order;
      (3)   Whenever the Code Official finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public health and safety, the Code
Official may, without notice or hearing, issue an order declaring the existence
of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as deemed
necessary to meet the emergency notwithstanding the other provisions of this
chapter. Such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such
order is directed shall comply therewith immediately.
   (F)   Appeals. Any property owner aggrieved by an action of the Code
Official against the owner's property in the enforcement of this chapter may
appeal such action to the Building Appeal Board as defined by § 17.12. Any
property owner aggrieved by an action of the Building Appeal Board may appeal
to the City Council.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2023)
§ 10.40 RENTAL LICENSING.
   (A)   Definitions. The definitions contained in §§
17.14 and
17.15, shall apply to this section;
      DWELLING. A single unit providing complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
      MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL BUILDING. A building with any dwelling let for
occupancy joined to another dwelling let for occupancy at one or more sides by
a party wall, floor or ceiling, including boarding houses, sleeping rooms,
apartments, town homes, twin homes, duplexes or quad homes, wherein eating,
cooking and sanitation facilities may or may not be shared in common spaces.
Each private dwelling area for living and sleeping shall constitute a rental
unit when other facilities of eating, cooking or sanitation are shared among
tenants.
      RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling that is occupied by any tenants.
      RESIDENCE. The primary dwelling where an individual lives and usually
sleeps.
      TENANT. Any adult person or emancipated minor who is occupying a dwelling
under any agreement, lease or contract, whether oral or written, and for a
period of seven or more consecutive or non-consecutive days in any month,
whether or not such occupancy requires the payment of rent, the payment of
utilities or the provision of services, for the use of the dwelling;
         (a)   A tenant shall not include any owner of record and an owner's
natural children, adopted children, foster children, spouse, other blood
relations, any significant other and any other dependent minors, residing with
that owner as a family unit; significant other means romantic partner;
         (b)   A tenant shall not include a tenant's natural children, adopted
children, foster children, spouse, other blood relations, any significant other
and any other dependent minors, residing with the tenant as a family unit;
significant other means romantic partner.
   (B)   License required. No owner of any rental unit shall permit the
occupancy of any portion of a unit by any tenant unless that portion is
licensed as required by this section and such license is posted in a
conspicuous place inside the unit for the duration of occupancy.
   (C)   Licenses--application, procedure, type. The City of Virginia shall
begin accepting applications for registration and license immediately after
adoption of this section. Rental properties should begin the process of
inspection and licensure early in the first year the property is subject to
regulation. A provisional license will be issued upon completion of the
application. Initial inspections will be scheduled as inspection staff is
available. The inspection official will issue a certified license upon
successful completion of the initial inspection. After the first year of this
program, the license procedure will be as indicated below without the
provisional license provision. Not having completed the application, inspection
and licensure by the end of the first year a license is applicable shall be a
violation of this section and the rental unit will be considered unlicensed and
subject to penalties, fines or administrative action as contained herein.
      (1)   Applications for rental licenses shall be filed with the Code
Official by the owner or the owner's agent and shall be accompanied by the
required license fee. The Code Official may reject any incomplete application;
         (a)   Applications for license renewals shall be filed at least 90
days prior to license expiration;
         (b)   Upon receipt of a complete application and fees the Code
Official may issue a license if the rental unit is eligible for licensure;
      (2)   Rental units which comply with the State Building Code (Chapter
1305) and have been constructed and certified for occupancy within one year
prior to date of application and are otherwise eligible for licensure shall be
issued a license for the initial licensing period without further inspection;
      (3)   All other rental units shall be inspected. The license fee shall
cover general administration, the initial or renewal inspection, and one re-
inspection, if required. Before a license is issued, a certificate of
compliance from the designated inspector shall be required by the Code
Official. Separate licenses shall be required for each rental unit. No license
shall be issued unless the rental unit complies with the provisions of this
section and all other applicable laws;
      (4)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, any application for
the renewal of an expired license shall be processed as a new license
application and the rental unit must comply with all applicable laws;
      (5)   If a rental license lapses as a result of the failure to comply
with this section, the license may be administratively reissued without regard
to the provisions of divisions (C)(1) through (3) of this section for a period
not to exceed 180 days of expiration, if within 180 days of the expiration of
the license the owner complies with all other requirements of division (C) of
this section;
      (6)   The applicant shall identify a managing agent or contact person who
resides within a 25 miles radius of the city and who has the authority to act
for the owner;
      (7)   Except as otherwise provided, a short-term rental license may be
issued for a period not to exceed 12 consecutive months for any dwelling under
the following circumstances and pursuant to the following conditions:
         (a)   The owner is the occupant of the dwelling unit at the time of
application or the Code Official finds that the owner was the occupant within
30 days before the date of application; and
         (b)   For professional, educational, medical, or military service
reasons the owner intends to reside in another community located at least 50
miles from the city; and
         (c)   The owner provides sufficient evidence of such intention to
temporarily relocate. Such evidence may include, but is not limited to written
offers of employment, employment transfer directives, a letter of acceptance
from an educational institution, or military orders; and
         (d)   The license may not be issued more frequently than once in any
three years;
         (e)   The license shall be applied for in the same manner as other
rental period; and licenses; and
         (f)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the rental unit
shall comply with all applicable rental licensing standards; and
         (g)   A short term license may be extended for additional six month
periods provided that an application for extension is received prior to the
expiration of the short term license or six-month extension and adequate
evidence justifying the extension is submitted.
   (D)   Fees. Fees provided for in this section shall be established by
resolution of the City Council. License fees shall not be prorated,
transferred, or refunded.
   (E)   Term of license. Licenses issued pursuant to this section shall be for
a term of three years. The term shall commence on the license issuance date and
expire three years from that date. All license renewals, including those
authorized before expiration, and those administratively reissued, subject to
division (C)(5) of this section, shall retain the original license issuance
month and day. License fees shall not be prorated.
   (F)   License conditions. All rental units are subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   No license shall be transferred to another rental unit;
      (2)   At the principal exterior entrance to a rental unit an
informational notice shall be posted that complies with the following
requirements:
         (a)   The notice shall be displayed in a conspicuous place;
         (b)   The notice shall indicate the name, e-mail address and telephone
number of the owner or managing agent;
         (c)   The notice shall be of such construction to remain readily
visible for the term of the rental license.
      (3)   If there is a change in ownership of a rental unit, the new owner
shall apply for a transfer of the license within 30 days of the change and pay
the license transfer fee. If the rental unit is sold pursuant to a contract for
deed, the purchaser shall be responsible for applying for the license transfer
and providing a recorded copy of said contract for deed from the St. Louis
County Recorder's office. A new license shall be issued for the remainder of
the license period;
      (4)   If there is a change in managing agent, the new managing agent
shall notify the Code Official in writing and update the notice in division (G)
(2)(a) of this section above within ten days of the change;
      (5)   The owner shall ensure that all required off street parking spaces,
offered during the summer, are kept clear of snow during the winter.
      (6)   Owners are required to provide a minimum as follows. If a property
has more than four bedrooms, one additional parking space for each additional
bedroom is required. Each parking space needs to be a minimum of 9 feet wide by
17 feet long.
         (a)   Parking spaces required for rental licenses:
            1 Bedroom... 1 Space
            2 Bedroom... 1 Space
            3 Bedroom... 2 Spaces
            4 Bedroom... 2 Spaces
         (b)   A Code Official will require the construction of additional
parking if they determine there is space on the rental property to provide or
construct the required off-street parking space(s) in conformance with the
code. If it is determined that adequate off-street parking cannot be provided,
the Council shall establish a non-conforming parking spot fee for each required
space not provided.
   (G)   License conditions - short term rentals. In addition to license
conditions found in division (F) of this section, all short term rental units
are subject to the additional following conditions:
      (1)   The owner must disclose in writing to their renters the following
information:
         (a)   The managing agent or local contact's name, address, and phone
number
         (b)   The maximum number of guests allowed at the property.
         (c)   The maximum number of vehicles, recreational vehicles, and
trailers allowed at the property and where they are to be parked.
         (d)   Property rules related to use of exterior features of the
property, such as decks, patios, grills, recreational fires, pools, hot tubs,
saunas and other outdoor recreational facilities
         (e)   Applicable sections of city ordinances governing noise, parks,
parking and pets.
      (2)   Additional occupancy by use of recreational vehicles, tents,
accessory structures or fish houses is not permitted.
      (3)   The owner or owners agent shall provide a physical visual
demarcation of the property lines.
      (4)   The license holder shall keep a report; detailing use of the short
term rental by recording the full name, address, phone number and vehicle
license number of guests using the rental. A copy of the report shall be
provided to the Planning Department upon request.
      (5)   In-unit posting. The following information shall be posted in a
conspicuous place within the short term rental:
         (a)   Name and contact information for the resident agent in charge of
monitoring the property while renters are present.
         (b)   Street address of the subject property.
         (c)   Floor plan indicating fire exits and escape routes.
   (H)   Inspection procedure.
      (1)   All premises licensed pursuant to this section shall be made
available for inspection by the Code Official at any reasonable time whether
the request for inspection is in conjunction with the licensing of the rental
unit or the result of a complaint. In addition, the Code Official may require
the licensee to produce records and information demonstrating that the rental
unit complies with any applicable licensee duties or mandatory rental agreement
terms described in §
10.40(C). Licensee shall retain all applicable records for the occupant during
the term of occupancy, and for one calendar year thereafter.
      (2)   If during the inspection or other investigation, violations of the
provisions of this section, or other applicable provisions of this code are
identified, or the licensee fails to produce records or information as
requested by the Code Official, written notice shall be mailed to the licensee
at the notification address on file with the Code Official. The notice shall
identify all violations identified and establish a reasonable time, not to
exceed 180 days, in which all violations must be corrected or the rental unit
vacated. At the end of the correction time, the rental unit shall be re-
inspected. If the rental unit is not vacated or the violations are not
corrected, the Code Official may take any of the following actions:
         (a)   Provide for an additional correction period. In no case may the
total amount of correction time provided by the initial period and any
additional period exceed 180 days;
         (b)   Revoke the license and order the vacation of the rental unit of
all persons and property. The Code Official shall provide a reasonable time for
vacation which shall not exceed 30 days;
      (3)   If the Code Official revokes a license; written notice shall be
mailed to the licensee at the notification address on file with the Code
Official and posted in a conspicuous place at the rental unit.
   (I)   Violations, enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this section, and a public
nuisance, to do any of the following:
         (a)   Allow tenant occupancy in any portion of an unlicensed rental
unit;
         (b)   Allow tenant occupancy in any unlicensed portion of a licensed
rental unit;
         (c)   Refuse entry to an inspection official where such entry is
allowed pursuant to division (C) of this section;
         (d)   Fail to comply with any final order of the Code Official;
         (e)   Advertisement by a property owner or owner's representative of
any dwelling or rental unit or any portion thereof as available for rent that
is not licensed for rental at the time the advertisement is made. For purposes
of this section, advertisement includes, but is not limited to, oral or written
notice, such as a poster or a paid announcement in the print, broadcast, or
electronic media, designed to attract public attention or patronage;
         (f)   Advertisement by a property owner or owner's representative of
any dwelling or rental unit or any portion thereof as available for rent
without the rental application license number for the rental unit appearing in
the advertisement. For purposes of this section, advertisement includes, but is
not limited to, oral or written notice, such as a poster or a paid announcement
in the print, broadcast, or electronic media, designed to attract public
attention or patronage;
         (g)   Failure to comply with City Code
Ch. 17.
      (2)   Continuing violations. Each day that a violation occurs or remains
uncorrected after the final order of the Code Official shall constitute a
separate violation.
      (3)   Enforcement. The city has the following enforcement powers:
         (a)   The city may issue an administrative citation pursuant to §
10.37(K) of the City Code;
         (b)   The city may pursue any other civil action in law or equity in
any court of competent jurisdiction, including without limitation a request for
a declaratory judgment, restraining order or a temporary or permanent
injunction;
         (c)   The city may revoke a rental license and issue an order for
vacation of the premises;
      (4)   Penalties. The owner of any property where a violation of this
section occurs, and any person violating this section, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, as provided in §
10.37(K) of the City Code.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2023)
§ 10.41 EMERGENCY REMEDIES IN RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   Statement of purpose; scope. It is the purpose of this section to
protect and promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
Virginia by providing tenants an effective remedy against loss of heat, water,
electricity, gas, security or basic fire and life safety. This section shall
apply to all units enumerated in §
10.40(B) which are rented or held out for rent to another.
   (B)   Emergency conditions, loss of heat, water, electricity, etc.
      (1)   If, contrary to the rental agreement, the landlord fails to provide
heat as required by Virginia Property Maintenance and Preservation Code,
adopted by division (A) above, running hot and cold water, electricity, gas or
operable toilet or bathing facilities as required by law, the tenant may
immediately notify the landlord and the Building Official, either orally or in
writing, of the condition. The Building Official shall, as soon as possible
thereafter, inspect the premises to ascertain whether such violation exists. If
the Building Official finds the violation to exist, the Building Official shall
immediately notify the landlord orally of the condition and cause written
notice of the violation to be sent. If the landlord has not remedied the
situation within 24 hours after receiving notice of the deficiency from the
Building Official, the tenant may then correct the deficiency by paying a
utility bill or causing the necessary repairs or corrections to be made, and
may then deduct the amount of money actually used to correct the deficiency
from future rent. All repairs made shall be made in conformance with applicable
codes by persons who are licensed and permitted to perform the required work.
In cases involving major repair or replacement of a heating plant, electric
service, water service or sewer, where the apparent cost of the work exceeds
$500, the landlord shall have the right to approve the method of repair and to
choose the contractor if, and only if, the landlord supplies temporary heat,
water or electricity to the dwelling unit in accordance with this chapter and
if a written repair contract is signed within seven days after notice is given
by the Building Official;
      (2)   If the landlord fails to provide deadbolt locks or smoke alarms as
required by law, the tenant may notify the landlord and the building official
in accordance with division (B)(1) above and the Building Official shall
inspect and notify the landlord of violations in accordance with said
subsection. If the landlord fails to provide required deadbolt locks or smoke
alarms within five days after receiving notice from the Building Official, the
tenant may cause the corrections to be made and deduct the cost of such
collections from the rent as provided in said division (B)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2023)
§ 10.42 CRIME FREE HOUSING PROGRAM.
Intentionally left blank for future date.
(Ord. passed 4-11-2023)
§ 10.43 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Violation; penalty. Any person who violates the provisions of this
chapter may be charged with a violation thereof and be subject to the penalty
provided in City Code, §
10.37(K), which is a misdemeanor and shall be punished as established in M.S. §
609.02, plus the costs of prosecution in either case.
   (B)   Enforcement alternatives. Enforcement actions provided in this section
shall not be exclusive, and the city may take any action with respect to a
licensee, a tenant, or a rental unit(s) as is authorized by the city code or
state law.
   (C)   Retaliation; waive, prohibited. No licensee or the licensee's agent
shall bar or limit a tenant's right to call for police or emergency assistance
in response to domestic abuse or any other conduct or impose a penalty on a
tenant for calling for police or emergency assistance in response to domestic
abuse or any other conduct. A tenant may not waive and no such licensee or
licensee's agent may require the tenant to waive the tenant's right to call for
police or emergency assistance. Any such waiver contained in a rental agreement
shall be null and void and unenforceable.
(Ord., passed 4-11-2023)
§§ 10.44 THROUGH 10.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 10.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   Generally. Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or
provision of this chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or
declared unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or
declared unlawful, or performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails
to act when the failure is prohibited or declared unlawful by a code adopted by
reference by this chapter and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
   (B)   (1)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of §
10.11 is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense
and shall be punishable under §
10.11.
      (2)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of §
10.11 shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
10.99.
      (3)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §
10.11(B), (G), (M) and (N) of this chapter are petty misdemeanors punishable as
provided in §
10.99.
CHAPTER 11: LAND USE REGULATIONS (ZONING)
Section
   
11.01   Application
   
11.02   Definitions
   
11.03   General provisions
   11.04 through 11.09   Reserved for future expansion
   
11.10   Establishment of districts
   
11.11   Zoning map
   
11.12   District boundary lines
   
11.13   District regulations
   11.14 through 11.29   Reserved for future expansion
   
11.30   Special regulations
   11.31 through 11.39   Reserved for future expansion
   
11.40   Performance standards
   
11.41   Blighting factors prohibited
   11.42 through 11.49   Reserved for future expansion
   
11.50   Administration and enforcement
   
11.51   Establishment of dedicated park area
   11.52 through 11.59   Reserved for future expansion
   
11.60   Planned unit development
   
11.61   Moratorium on the issuance of the sale, production, processing, or
cultivation of cannabis products
   11.62 through 11.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
11.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 11.01 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this chapter is to protect the
public health, safety and general welfare of the community and its people
through the establishment of minimum regulations governing development and use.
This chapter shall divide the city into use districts and establish regulations
in regard to locations, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of structures and land. The regulations are established to protect the use
areas; to promote orderly development and redevelopment; to provide adequate
light, air and convenience of access to property; to prevent congestion in the
public right-of-way; to prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of
structures by regulating land, buildings, yards and density of population; to
provide for compatibility of different land uses; to promote the character and
preserve and enhance the stability of properties and areas within the city; to
protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes and pollution of the
environment; to promote a visually pleasing environment throughout the
community; to provide for administration of this chapter; to provide for
amendments; to prescribe penalties for violation of the regulations; and to
define powers and duties of the city staff, the Board of Appeals, the Planning
and Zoning Commission and the Council in relation to this chapter.
   (B)   Standard requirement. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this chapter are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by other city code provision, rule or regulation of the city, the city
code provision, rule or regulation which imposes the more restrictive
condition, standard or requirements shall prevail.
   (C)   Minimum requirements. The provisions of this chapter shall be held to
be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (D)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person to erect, relocate,
convert, enlarge, reconstruct or alter any structure or use any structure or
land for any purpose or in any manner winch is not in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Uses not provided for within zoning districts. Whenever in any zoning
district a use is neither specifically permitted, nor denied, the use shall be
considered unlawful. In such case, the Council or the Planning and Zoning
Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to
determine if the use is acceptable and, if so, what zoning district would be
most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards relating
to development of the use. The Council, Planning and Zoning Commission or
property owner, upon receipt of the staff study, shall, if appropriate,
initiate an amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under
consideration or shall find that the use is not compatible for development
within the city.
   (F)   Authority. This chapter is enacted pursuant to the authority granted
by the Municipal Planning Act, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.365, as they may be
amended from time to time.
§ 11.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE. A subordinate building, structure or use which is
located on the same lot on which the main building or use is situated and which
is reasonably necessary and incidental to the conduct of the primary use of the
building or main use.
   ALLEY. A public-right-of-way 30 feet or less in width, which affords
secondary access to abutting property.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms which is designed for, intended for or
occupied as a residence by a single family or an individual, and is equipped
with cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and efficiency unit.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning
engines, motor vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body, frame
or fender straightening or repair, overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam
cleaning.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR - MINOR. Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partially underground by having
more than one-half its floor to ceiling height below the average land grade.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where, for compensation by pre
arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and meals are provided to
three or more persons, not of the principal family therein, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply, but not including a
building providing these services for more then ten persons.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any use or occupancy.
   BUILDING AREA. The portion of a lot remaining after required yards have been
provided.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to the
top of a flat roof, to the mean distance of the highest gable on a pitched or
hip roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to the uppermost point on all
other roof types.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or which occupies time, attention, labor and materials, or
where services are offered for compensation.
   CARPORT. A canopy constructed of metal or other materials supported by posts
either ornamental or solid and completely open on three sides.
   CELLAR. The portion of a building having more than one-half of the floor to
ceiling height below the average land grade.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
   CHURCH. A building together with its accessory building and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CLUB or LODGE. A club or lodge is a non-profit association of persons who
are bona fide members paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to
members and their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on
the premises providing adequate dining room space and kitchen facilities are
available. Serving of alcoholic beverages to members and their guests shall be
allowed; providing, the serving is secondary and incidental to the operation of
the dining room for the purpose of serving food and meals; and, providing
further that, the serving of alcoholic beverages is in compliance with the
applicable federal, state and city laws.
   CONDITIONAL USE. An activity or use of the land, which because of special
problems of control intrinsic in the use, requires reasonable but special,
unusual and extraordinary limitations for the protection of the public welfare
and the integrity of the city’s land use plan.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit, issued by the Council in accordance with
the procedures specified in this chapter, as a flexibility device to enable the
Council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
   CONDOMINIUM. A multiple dwelling containing individually owned dwelling
units and jointly owned and shared areas and facilities, which dwelling is
subject to applicable provisions of state statutes.
   CONVENIENCE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment which serves food in or on
disposable or edible containers in individual servings for consumption on or
off the premises.
   DAY CARE CENTER (GROUP). A service provided to the public, in which children
of school or pre-school age are cared for during established business hours. No
overnight accommodations are provided and children are delivered and removed
daily. At least 50 square feet of fenced play area per pupil shall be provided.
   DAY CARE HOME. Restricted to a family dwelling in which foster care,
supervision and training for children of school or pre-school age out of their
own home is provided during part of the day (less than 24 hours) with no
overnight accommodations or facilities and children are delivered and removed
daily. The number to be cared for in one DAY CARE HOME shall not exceed ten,
not including the family’s own children, and all licenses shall be obtained.
   DETOXIFICATION FACILITY (SUB-ACUTE). A short-term health care and evaluation
center designed for the safe, supervised withdrawal from alcohol and drugs, the
evaluation of the patient’s involvement and possible dependency on chemical
substances and to refer patient to appropriate programs.
   DISTRICT. A section or sections of the city for which the regulations and
provisions governing the use of buildings and lands are uniform for each class
of use permitted therein.
   DOG KENNEL. Any place where three dogs or more over six months of age are
commercially board, bred and/or offered for sale, excluding a veterinary
clinic.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment which accommodates the patron’s
automobile from which the occupants may receive a service or in which products
purchased from the establishment may be consumed.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family
dwellings, but not including hotels, motels and boarding houses.
   DWELLING, MANUFACTURED. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation after fabrication on streets or highways on its own wheels or on
a flatbed or other trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be
occupied as a dwelling complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and
incidental unpacking and assembly operations; it shall be located on a
permanent foundation constructed of block, poured concrete or wood in
accordance with the Building Code standards so that the floor of the structure
is no greater than 24 inches above exterior finished grade; and connected to
utilities, and the like. The unit may be built under the state’s Mobile Home
Code. In addition, the housing must have a shingled roof with a pitch of no
less than two and one-half inches to 12 inches and house-type siding including
simulated stucco, aluminum lap siding and simulated wood. No such house shall
have a width of less than 20 feet at its narrowest point.
   DWELLING, MOBILE HOME. A detached residential dwelling unit designed for
transportation on streets or highways on its own wheels or on flatbed or other
trailers, and arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a dwelling
complete and ready for occupancy, except for minor and incidental unpacking and
assembly operations, it shall be located on jacks or other temporary or
permanent foundations and connected to utilities and the like. A travel trailer
is not to be considered as a MOBILE HOME.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE (APARTMENT). A building designed with three or more
dwelling units exclusively for occupancy by three or more families living
independently of each other, but sharing hallways and main entrances and exits.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling unit designed exclusively for
occupancy for one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designated exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a family, but not including, hotels, motels, nursing homes,
seasonal cabins, boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
   EARTH SHELTERED. A building so constructed so that more than 50% of the
exterior surface area of the building, excluding garages or other accessory
buildings, is covered with earth, and all applicable Building Code standards
are satisfied. Partially-completed buildings shall not be considered EARTH
SHELTERED.
   ELECTRONIC SIGNS. A sign, display or device that changes message copy on the
sign by means of light emitting diodes (LED), fiber optics, light bulbs, liquid
crystal display or other illumination devices with the display area.
(Added 4-19-2008)
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Gas, electric, steam, sewer, communication or water
transmission collection, supply, disposal or distribution systems operated by
public utilities, municipal or other governmental agencies.
   FAMILY. One or more persons each related to the other by blood, marriage,
adoption or foster care, or a group of not more than five persons not so
related maintaining a common household and using common cooking and kitchen
facilities.
   FLOOR AREA (BUSINESS-COMMERCIAL). The sum of the gross horizontal areas of
the several floors of the building or portion thereof devoted to a particular
use, including accessory storage areas located within selling or working space
such as counters, racks or closets, and any basement floor area devoted to
retailing activities, to the production or processing of goods or to business
or professional offices.
   GARAGE - PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the
principal building which is intended for and used to store the private
passenger vehicles of the family or families resident upon the premises, and in
which no business or industry is carried on. The space can be rented to non-
residents of the property for private passenger vehicles and/or non-commercial
vehicles, trailers or equipment; provided that, not more than one-half of the
space is rented to persons not resident on the premises; except that, all the
space in a garage of one- or two-car capacity may be so rented. PRIVATE
GARAGES’ parking spaces and carports are to be used for licensed and operable
passenger cars and trucks, not to exceed a gross capacity of 9,000 pounds as
regulated by the off-street parking provisions of this chapter.
   GARAGE - PUBLIC. A building or portion of a building, except any herein
defined as a private garage or as a repair garage used for the storage of motor
vehicles or where any such vehicles are kept for remuneration or hire, and in
which any sale of gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to the
principal use.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished surface of the ground, paving or sidewalk within the area between the
building and the property line, or when the property line is more than five
feet from the building, between the building and a line five feet from the
building.
   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any gainful occupation engaged in by the occupants of a
dwelling at or from the dwelling. The activity shall be clearly incidental and
secondary to the residential use of the premises. Permissible HOME OCCUPATIONS
shall not include the conducting of a retail business other than by mail,
manufacturing business or a repair shop of any kind on the premises, except
television, shoe and small appliance repair, and no stock in trade shall be
kept or sold, except that which is clearly accessory to the principal use. No
other than persons residing on the premises shall be employed and no mechanical
equipment shall be employed that is not customarily found in the home and no
more than one room may be devoted to HOME OCCUPATION use. The HOME OCCUPATION
shall not require internal or external alterations or involve construction
features not customarily found in dwellings. The entrance to the space devoted
to the occupations shall be within the dwelling. There shall be no exterior
display, no exterior signs except as allowed in the sign regulations for the
zoning district in which the HOME OCCUPATION is located. There shall be no
exterior storage of equipment or materials used in the HOME OCCUPATIONS. No
HOME OCCUPATION shall be permitted which results in or generates more traffic
than one car for off-street parking at any one given point in time. Permissible
HOME OCCUPATIONS include, but are not limited to the following: beauty shops;
art studio; dressmaking; special offices of clergyman, lawyer, architect,
engineer, accountant or real estate agent or appraiser, when located in a
dwelling unit occupied by the same; and teaching, with musical, dancing and
other instruction limited to one pupil at a time.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less
temporary abiding place of individuals and containing six or more guest rooms,
used, designated or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or
which are occupied by six or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
   JUNK YARD. Land or buildings where waste, discarded or salvaged materials
are bought, sold, stored, exchanged, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including but not limited to, scrap metals, rags, paper, hides, rubber
products, glass products, lumber products and products resulting from the
wrecking of automobiles or other vehicles.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions
of this zoning regulation, having not less than the minimum area required by
this chapter for a building site in the district in which the lot is situated
and having its principal frontage on a street, or a proposed street approved by
the Council.
   LOT (OF RECORD). A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to the date and which is occupied by or intended for occupancy
by one principal building or principal use together with any accessory
buildings and open spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal
frontage upon a street.
   LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane within the lot lines.
   LOT LINE. A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that, where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the LOT LINE shall be deemed to be the street or alley right-
of-way.
   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side lot lines measured at
the building setback line.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets; or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
single street, the interior angle of which is 135 degrees or less.
   LOT, DEPTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line measured from a 90-degree angle from the street right-of-way
(chord) within the lot boundaries.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. The front of a lot shall be for the purposes of complying
with this chapter, that boundary abutting a public right-of-way having the
least width. The owner of a corner lot may select either street line as the
front lot line; providing, the resulting setbacks will be compatible with the
existing or future setbacks of the adjoining properties subject to approval by
the Building Inspector or Zoning Administrator.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot, other than a corner lot, including through lots.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot fronting on two substantially parallel streets.
   MINING USE. Those uses commonly associated with excavating of natural earth-
bearing ore or non-metallic or metallic metals. Uses subject to state’s
pollution control standards.
   MOBILE HOME, INDEPENDENT. A mobile home which is constructed to utilize a
public water and sewer system, for external source of electric service and an
external source for heating and shall be equipped with a stool, shower or tub,
and laundry facilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK, DEPENDENT. An approved mobile home park which has
underground utility service to each site and also restroom and washing
facilities as specified by the state.
   MOBILE HOME PARK, INDEPENDENT. An approved mobile home park which has
underground utility service to each site and only permits independent mobile
homes.
   MOTEL - MOTOR HOTEL. A building or group of detached, semi-detached or
attached buildings containing guest rooms or units, each of which has a
separate entrance directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, with
garage or parking space conveniently located to each unit, and which is
designed, used or intended to be used primarily for the accommodation of
transient guests traveling by automobile.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL (TRUCK TERMINAL). A building in which freight brought
by motor truck is assembled and sorted for routing in intra-state and
interstate shipment.
   MOTOR FUEL STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in underground
tanks) kerosene, motor oil and lubricants are retailed directly to the public
on premises. MOTOR FUEL STATION may include sale of vehicle related minor
accessories and minor auto repair, but not automobile major repair.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE OR USE. Any structure or use which on the effective
date of this chapter does not, even though lawfully established, conform to the
applicable conditions if the structure or use was to be erected under the
guidance of this chapter.
   NURSING HOME (REST HOME). A building having accommodations where care is
provided for two or more invalids, infirm, aged convalescent or physically
disabled persons that are not of the immediate family; but not including
hospitals, clinics, sanitariums or similar institutions.
   OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from the street, alley or way,
in a building or on the lot for the use of trucks while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. The space shall be of a size as to accommodate one
truck of the type typically used in the particular business.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Any open land used or occupied for the purpose of buying,
selling and/or renting merchandise and for the storing of same prior to sale.
   PARKING RAMP. An accessory structure designed and used for the storage of
motor vehicles at, below and/or above grade.
   PARKING SPACE. An area, enclosed in the main building, in an accessory
building, or unenclosed, sufficient in size to store one automobile, which has
adequate access to a public street or alley and permitted satisfactory ingress
for an automobile.
   PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts; provided, it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards (if any) of the districts.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land developed as a unit rather than as
individual development wherein buildings may be located in relationship to each
other rather than to lot lines or zoning district boundaries. The PLANNED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT must be developed in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
   PRODUCTION PHASE WECS. Professionally designed wind machines that are built
in significant numbers on a continuing basis after testing. Wind machines made
from professionally designed kits will be considered PRODUCTION PHASE WECS.
   PUBLIC USES. Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
   RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. Any facility, public or private, which for gain or
otherwise regularly provides one or more persons with a 24-hour per day
substitute for care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision,
habilitation, rehabilitation and treatment they need, but which for any reason
cannot be furnished in the person’s own home. RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES include,
but are not limited to, state institutions under the control of the
Commissioner of Public Welfare, foster homes, residential treatment centers,
maternity shelters, group homes, residential programs of schools for
handicapped children.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment which serves food in or on non-disposable
dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths within the
building.
   SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING. Multiple dwelling building with open occupancy
generally governed by HRA regulations.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street or
lot line. Distances are to be measured from the most outwardly extended portion
of the structure at ground level.
   SIGN - PORTABLE. A sign that is not solidly affixed to the ground, a
building or any other structure and is capable of being easily and readily
moved whether on wheels, skids or any other type of attachment to facilitate
its movement or having thereon a base or method of bracing to facilitate and
allow the sign to be easily and conveniently moved and displayed with the sign
having no fixed or permanent place and/or location.
   SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. Two single-family dwellings with a zero lot line on
one side sharing a common wall, with the common wall and all jointly owned or
jointly utilized facilities including, but not limited to, decks, utility lines
and driveways being governed under a declaration of covenants and restrictions
approved by the city, and filed with the County Recorder.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of a
floor and upper surface of floor next above; except that, the topmost STORY
shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement or cellar, or unused underfloor space is more than
six feet above grade, as defined herein, for more than 50% of the total
perimeter or is more than 12 feet above grade, as defined herein, at any point,
the basement, cellar or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a STORY.
   STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed or erected, an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character.
   TOWNHOUSES. Structures housing three or more dwelling units of not more than
two stories each and contiguous to each other only by the sharing of one common
wall, the structures to be of the town or row house type as contrasted to
multiple-dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall contain in
excess of eight dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall have separate and
individual front and rear entrances.
   USE. The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of the activity, as defined by
the standards of this chapter or by conditions imposed on particular uses.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
usable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and
their guests. The areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for a
recreational purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute
USABLE OPEN SPACE.
   VARIANCE. The waiving by Council action of the literal provisions of this
chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship
because of physical circumstances unique to the individual property under
consideration.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed
building as a principal use.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device such as a wind charger,
windmill or wind turbine which converts wind energy to a form of usable energy.
   YARD. An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from its
lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a lot line at right angles to the
lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the zoning
district in which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side
lot lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest line of
the principal building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the principal
building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the principal building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear
yard.
§ 11.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Non-conforming buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of
non-conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those
requirements, circumstances and conditions under which non- conforming
buildings, structures and uses will be operated and maintained. This chapter
establishes separate districts, each of which is an appropriate area for the
location of uses which are permitted in that district. It is necessary and
consistent with the establishment of these districts that non-conforming
buildings, structures and uses not be permitted to continue without
restriction. Furthermore, it is the intent of this section that all non-
conforming uses shall be eventually brought into conformity.
      (2)   Any structure or use lawfully existing upon the effective date of
this chapter shall not be enlarged, but may be continued at the size and in the
manner of operation existing upon such date, except as hereinafter specified or
subsequently amended.
      (3)   Nothing within this chapter shall prevent the placing of a
structure in safe condition when the structure is declared unsafe by the
Building Inspector providing the necessary repairs shall not constitute more
than 50% of fair market value of the structure. The value shall be determined
by the City Assessor.
      (4)   No non-conforming building, structure or use shall be moved to
another lot or to any other part of the parcel of land upon which the same was
constructed or was conducted on the effective date of this chapter unless the
movement shall bring the non-conformance into compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
      (5)   When a lawful non-conforming use of any structure or land in any
district has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be
changed to any non-conforming use.
      (6)   A lawful non-conforming use of a structure or parcel of land may be
changed to a similar non-conforming use. Once a structure or parcel of land has
been placed in a more restrictive non- conforming use, it shall not return to a
less restrictive non-conforming use.
      (7)   If at any time a non-conforming building, structure or use shall be
destroyed to the extent of more than 50% of its fair market value, the value to
be determined by the City Assessor, then without further action by the Council,
the building and the land on which the building was located or maintained
shall, from and after the date of the destruction, be subject to all the
regulations specified by these zoning regulations for the district in which the
land and buildings are located. Any building which is damaged to an extent of
less than 50% of its value may be restored to its former extent. Estimate of
the extent of damage or destruction shall be made by the Building Inspector.
      (8)   Whenever a lawful non-conforming use of a structure or land is
discontinued for a period of six months, any future use of the structure or
land shall be made to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
      (9)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful non- conforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and alterations which do not physically extend or intensify
the non-conforming use.
      (10)   Alterations may be made to a building containing lawful non-
conforming residential units when they will improve the livability thereof;
provided, they will not increase the number of dwelling units or size or volume
of the building.
      (11)   Any proposed structure which will, under this chapter, become non-
conforming, but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior to
the effective date of this chapter, may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans; provided, construction is started within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter, is not abandoned for a period of more than 120
days and continued to completion within two years. The structure and use shall
thereafter be a legally non-conforming structure and use.
   (B)   Non-conforming lots of record. A lot of record existing upon the
effective date of this chapter in a residence district, which does not meet the
requirements of this chapter as to area or width may be utilized for single-
family detached dwelling purposes or two-family, duplex dwelling purposes;
provided, adequate zoning currently exists; and, provided, the measurements of
such area or width are within 75% of the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Dwelling unit restriction.
      (1)   No cellar, basement (except multiple-family dwellings and dwellings
that are of earth- sheltered construction as herein defined), garage, tent or
accessory building shall at any time be used as an independent residence or
dwelling unit, temporarily or permanently.
      (2)   Basements may be used as living quarters or rooms as a portion of
residential dwellings in accordance with the state’s Building Code.
      (3)   Tents, play houses or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes.
      (4)   Mobile homes and manufactured housing not built under the Uniform
Building Code shall be permitted only in an “MH” (Mobile Home Park and
Manufactured Housing PUD) District.
   (D)   Platted and unplatted property.
      (1)   Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the
Building Inspector a certificate of survey by a registered land surveyor of the
premises with information on the location and dimensions of existing and
proposed buildings, location of easements crossing the property, encroachments
and any other information which may be necessary to ensure conformance to city
code provisions.
      (2)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct
future streets which may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
      (3)   Except in the case of planned unit development, as provided for in
this chapter, not more than one principal building shall be located on a lot.
The words “principal building” shall be given their common, ordinary meaning;
in case of doubt or on any questions of interpretation, the decision of the
Zoning Administrator shall be final, subject to the right of appeal to the
Planning and Zoning Commission and the Board of Appeals.
      (4)   On a through lot (a lot fronting on two substantially parallel
streets), the rear lot line shall be defined as the arterial streets, where
access is prohibited, and the minimum setback shall be 20 feet for applying the
yard and parking regulations of this chapter.
      (5)   Except in the Central Business District, no building shall be
located closer than 20 feet from any street right-of-way.
      (6)   No lot, yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make the lot, yard or open space less than the minimum
required by this chapter, and if the existing yard or other open space as
existing is less than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No
required open space shall be included as part of any open space required for
other structure.
(Ord. 130, effective 3-1-1988)
§§ 11.04 THROUGH 11.09 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 11.10 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   The following zoning classifications are hereby established.
   (A)   Residential districts.
      (1)   R-1 - Single-Family Residential District; purpose. The purpose of
the “R-1” Single-Family District is to provide for low-density single-family
detached residential dwelling units and directly related, complementary uses.
      (2)   R-2 - One-, Two-, Three- and Four-Family Residential District;
purpose. The purpose of the “R-2” Family Residential District is to provide for
one-, two-, three- and four-density family detached residential dwelling units,
and directly related, complementary uses.
      (3)   R-3 - 5-12 Multi-Family Residential District; purpose. The purpose
of the “R-3” Family Residential District is to provide for 5-12 multi-
residential dwelling units and directly related, complementary uses.
      (4)   R-4 - Townhouse District; purpose. The purpose of the “R-4”
Residential District is to provide for townhouses or one and two unit
dwellings.
      (5)   R-5 - Multi-Family (over 12 units) Residential District; purpose.
The purpose of the “R-5” Residential District is to provide for multiple-family
structures over 12 units and directly related, complementary uses.
   (B)   Business districts.
      (1)   B-1 - Central Business District; purpose. The purpose of the “B-1”
Central Business District is to provide for the development and redevelopment
of high intensity commercial and service activities, gaining economic advantage
from a concentration of complementary uses and drawing from and serving
customers from the entire market area.
      (2)   B-2 - Community Business District; purpose. The purpose of the “B-
2” Community Business District is to provide for medium intensity retail or
service activities on a community and regional market scale and to provide
goods and services to transient motor vehicle traffic. The districts should be
located in areas well served by collectors or arterial street facilities.
   (C)   Industrial districts.
      (1)   I-2 - Light Industrial District; purpose. The purpose of the “I-1”
Light Industrial District is to provide for the establishment of light
industrial and manufacturing development and uses which, because of the nature
of the product or character of activity, requires isolation from residential or
commercial use.
      (2)   I-2 - Heavy Industrial District; purpose. The purpose of the “I-2”
Heavy Industrial District is to provide for the establishment of heavy
industrial and manufacturing development and use which, because of the nature
of the product or character of activity, requires isolation from residential or
commercial use.
   (D)   PUD - Planned Unit Development District; purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the “PUD” Planned Unit Development District is to
provide for the grouping of land parcels for development as an integrated,
coordinated unit as opposed to traditional parcel by parcel, piecemeal,
sporadic and unplanned approaches to development.
      (2)   This district is intended to introduce flexibility of site design
and architecture for the conservation of land and open space through clustering
of buildings and activities through conditional use provisions.
      (3)   It is further intended that planned unit developments are to be
characterized by central management, integrated planning and architecture,
joint or common use of parking, maintenance of open space and other similar
facilities and a harmonious selection and efficient distribution of uses.
   (E)   MH - Mobile Home Park and Manufactured Housing PUD Districts; purpose.
The purpose for the “MH” Mobile Home Park and Manufactured Housing PUD District
is to provide for mobile homes and directly related uses and to provide for
manufactured housing as a planned unit development.
   (F)   M-O - Mining Open Space District; purpose. The Mining Open Space
District is intended to provide a district which will allow suitable areas of
the city to be retained and utilized in open space and/or mining uses.
§ 11.11 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this chapter are
hereby set forth on the Zoning Map entitled “Zoning Map for the City of
Virginia”, dated 10-19-1987, and amended from time to time thereafter. The map,
on file with the Building Inspector and hereinafter referred to as the “Zoning
Map”, which map and all of the notations, references and other information
shown thereon shall have the same force and effect as if fully set forth
herein, is hereby made a part of this chapter by reference.
§ 11.12 DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINES.
   Zoning district boundary lines of this chapter follow lot lines, railroad
right-of-way lines, the center of watercourses or the corporate limit lines,
all as they exist upon the effective date of this chapter.
   (A)   Appeals and questions of doubt concerning the exact location of a
zoning district boundary line shall be heard by the Board of Appeals.
   (B)   When any street, alley or other public right-of-way is vacated by
official action of the city, the zoning district abutting the centerline of the
alley or other public right-of-way shall not be affected by the proceeding.
§ 11.13 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted, accessory and conditional uses. Permitted, accessory and
conditional uses for the R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 Districts, B-1 and B-
2 Districts; and I-1 and I-2 Districts are listed in the following Tables A, B
and C. The letter “P” indicates a permitted use and “C” a conditional use.
Procedures and standards for granting conditional uses are found in §
11.50 of this chapter. All uses are subject to general performance standards as
provided for in §
11.40 of this chapter. Uses listed in the tables are also subject to applicable
regulations in §
11.30 of this chapter. Additional regulations and clarification of selected
uses are also found in §
11.02 of this chapter.
Table A: Residential Districts Uses
P = Permitted Use
C = Conditional Use Permit Required
Uses R-1 R-2 R-3 R-4 R-5
Table A: Residential Districts Uses
P = Permitted Use
C = Conditional Use Permit Required
Uses                                                                    R- R- R- R- R-
                                                                        1  2  3  4  5
3-4 unit multi-family dwelling                                          P  P  P  P  P
Boarding house (no more than 10 persons)                                   P  P  P  P
Boarding or renting of rooms to no more than one person                    P  P
Buildings combining residential and non-residential uses                   C  C  C  C
Cemeteries, mausoleums and crematory                                       C  C  C  C
Club or lodge with food and drink incidental                               C  C  C  C
Conversion of single-family dwelling to no more than 4 units                  P  P  P
Day-care centers (group) (services more than 10)                        C  C  C  C  C
Day-care home (services no more than 10)                                P  P  P  P  P
Essential services                                                      P  P  P  P  P
Funeral homes mortuaries                                                   C  C  C  C
Governmental and public utility buildings and structures                C  C  C  C  C
Group housing - nursing homes (service more than 16)                       C  C  C  C
Home occupations                                                           P  P  C  C
Hospitals, clinics, professional or commercial offices                     C  C  C  C
Multi-family (over 12 units)                                                  P  P  P
Multi-family (over 12 units) 5-12 unit multi-family dwelling                  P  P  P
Non-commercial greenhouse                                                  C  C  C  C
Non-commercial recreation facilities associated with residence          P  P  P  C  C
Off-site parking facilities for adjacent commercial multi-family           C  C  C  C
residential
Off-street loading                                                         C  C  C  C
Private garages, carports and off-street parking (associated with       P  P  P  P  P
residential use)
Public or private educational institutions                              C  C  C  C  C
Public parks and playgrounds                                            P  P  P  P  P
Recreational buildings, community centers, churches and other religious C  C  C  C  C
institutions
Residential facilities                                                     C  P  P  P
Residential planned urban development                                   C  C  C  C  C
Retail sales associated and incidental to hospitals, clinics,
professional offices, or to meet the everyday needs of the building’s    C  C  C  C
tenants or residents (1)
Senior citizen housing                                                        P  P  P
Single-family attached dwelling                                         P  P  P  P  P
Single-family detached dwelling                                         P  P  P  P  P
Storage of recreational vehicle and equipment                           P  P  P  P  P
Tool houses, sheds, storage buildings (non-commercial associated with   P  P  P  C  C
residence)
Townhouse                                                                     C  P  P
Two-family dwelling                                                        P  P  P  P
 
Table B: Business Districts Uses
P = Permitted Use
C = Conditional Use Permit Required
Uses B-1 B-2
Table B: Business Districts Uses
P = Permitted Use
C = Conditional Use Permit Required
Uses                                                                    B-1 B-2
Amusement places (dance halls, roller rinks, arcades, theaters, health  P   P
and recreation clubs, bowling alley and the like)
Auto accessory                                                          P   P
Auto repair                                                             P   P
Automatic teller machines                                               P   P
Automobile dealerships, motor vehicle and recreation equipment and      P   P
accessory garages
Bakery with baking for retail sales on-site                             P   P
Barbershops, beauty parlors                                             P   P
Bicycle sales and repair                                                P   P
Boat and marine sales                                                   P   P
Building materials                                                      P   P
Building, structure or use accessory to principal use                   P   P
Camera and photographic supplies                                        P   P
Car wash                                                                P   P
Clothing sales and tailoring                                            P   P
Clubs, lodges and restaurants                                           P   P
Commercial greenhouse                                                   P   P
Commercial PUD                                                          C   C
Convenience food (on- or off-site consumption such as coffee shops,     P   P
delicatessens, doughnut shops and ice cream parlors)
Convenience grocery stores                                              P   P
Custom manufacturing (optical, arts, crafts, watches, jewelry, dental)  P   P
Department, discount and furniture stores                               P   P
Detached banking facility                                               P   P
Detoxification facility                                                 C   C
Drive-in or drive-through facilities associated with banks, restaurants P   P
Drug store                                                              P   P
Dry cleaning and laundry                                                P   P
Essential services                                                      P   P
Financial institutions                                                  P   P
Florist shop                                                            P   P
Gas stations (principal or incidental)                                  P   P
Government and utility offices                                          P   P
Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores                                      P   P
Hardware store                                                          P   P
Implement sales/service, feed store                                     P   C
Major appliances, sales and repair                                      P   P
Mini-storage facilities                                                 C   C
Motels/hotels                                                           P   P
Multi-family housing                                                    C   C
Off-street loading                                                      P   P
Off-street parking (not including semi-trailer truck)                   P   P
Open and outdoor service, sales and rentals as a principal or accessory
use, including sales in or from motorized vehicles, trailers or wagons  C   C
(5)
Paint and wallpaper sales                                               P   P
Parking ramp                                                            P   C
Personal services                                                       P   P
Plumbing, heating and electrical                                        P   P
Printing, newspaper, communications                                     P   P
Professional and commercial offices (medical, dental, lawyer, real      P   P
estate, insurance, travel agent, accountant and the like)
Public garages                                                          P   P
Retail sales of art, art supplies, school and office supplies, books    P   P
and stationery
Self-service laundromat and dry cleaning pick-up station                P   P
Shopping center                                                         P   C
Small appliances, sales and repair                                      P   P
Taverns and off-sale liquor                                             P   P
Taxi or bus terminal                                                    P   C
Variety, notions, handicraft, jewelry, hobby and craft                  P   P
 
(Amended 11-15-2016)
Table C: Industrial Districts Uses
P = Permitted Use
C = Conditional Use Permit Required
Uses I-1 I-2
Table C: Industrial Districts Uses
P = Permitted Use
C = Conditional Use Permit Required
Uses                                                                    I-1 I-2
Acid manufacturer                                                           C
Blacksmith, welding or other metal shop                                 P   P
Bus, railroad, motor freight or trucking terminals and maintenance      P   P
garage
Commercial and industrial laundry services                              P   P
Commercial building, structure or use accessory to the principal use    P   P
Creosote plant                                                              C
Crude oil, gasoline or other liquid storage tanks incidental to the     P   P
principal use
Essential services                                                      P   P
Fertilizer, fuel briquettes, chemical manufacturing                     C
Foundry casting; lightweight, non-ferrous metals or electric foundry    P   P
not causing noxious fumes or odors
Governmental and public utility buildings & structures                  P   P
Incineration or reduction of waste material other than customarily      C
incidental to a principal use
Junk yard (open storage), similar uses                                  C   C
Kilns or other heat processes fired by means other than electricity         C
Laboratories                                                            P   P
Machine shops                                                           P   P
Manufacture of daily products, cold storage, distribution, bottling     P   P
plant
Manufacture of musical instruments, novelties and molded rubber         P   P
Manufacture of pottery, ceramic products using previously pulverized    P   P
clay and electric or gas kilns
Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, instruments and the   P   P
like
Manufacture/repair electrical signs, advertising devices and the like   P   P
Manufacture/repair light sheet metal products                           P   P
Manufacturing, assembly or treatment of previously prepared products    P   P
(cloth, leather, paper, plastic, metals, stone, wood and the like)
Manufacturing, compounding, assembly, packaging, treatment or storage
of products including: cement, concrete, stone cutting, brick, glass,
batteries, ceramic products, mill working, metal polishing and plating, P
paint, vinegar works, rendering of fats and oils, rubber products,
plastic, asphalt and similar uses
Milling, distillation and similar uses, grain elevators                 C
Motor vehicle minor and/or major repair                                 P   P
Off-street parking (including semi-trailer trucks)                      P   P
Offices associate with principal use                                    P   P
Oil, gasoline, liquid fertilizer or other chemical storage tanks        P   P
(principal or accessory use), storage capacity exceeds 12,000 gallons
Open and outdoor storage                                                P   P
Open or outdoor service sale and rental as an accessory use, and        P   P
including sales in or from motor vehicles, trailers or wagons (2)
Radio and television transmission towers and stations                   P   P
Refuse and garbage disposal                                                 C
Research laboratories                                                   P   P
Storage, utilization or manufacture of materials or products which          C
could decompose by detonation
Trade schools                                                           P   P
Warehouses and wholesaling                                              P   P
 
   (B)   Minimum general requirements.
Residential Districts
     Min. Lot          Min.     Min.     Min.     Max.      Min. Lot
Uses Size     Min. Lot Setback  Setback  Setback  Height    Area per Min. s.f.
     (s.f.)   Width    in Feet  in Feet  in Feet  (Greater) Unit     per Unit
                       (Front)  (Rear)   (Side)
Residential Districts
              Min.         Min.    Min.    Min.                Min.
              Lot    Min.  Setback Setback Setback Max. Height Lot   Min.
Uses          Size   Lot   in Feet in Feet in Feet (Greater)   Area  s.f. per
              (s.f.) Width (Front) (Rear)  (Side)              per   Unit
                                                               Unit
Club or lodge
with food,    20,000 100’30      30      20      35’3
drink
Converted to
multi- family 6,000  50’ 20      25      5       35’3      1,500 750
4 units R-3
Essential
services                                           25’ or 2
government,                30      30      10      stories
public
utilities
Hospitals,    20,000 100’30      30      20      35’
clinics
Multiple
family 3      4,500  100’20      25      20      35’3      1,500 750
units R-4
Multiple
family 4      6,000  100’20      25      20      35’3
units R-4
Multiple
family over   21,000 100’20      25      20      35’3      1,750 500
12 units
Multiple
family to 12  18,000 100’20      25      20      35’3      1,500 500
units R-5
Nursing homes
group housing 20,000 100’30      30      40      35’3
over 16
Professional                                       35’ or 33
or leased     20,000 100’30      30      20      stories
offices
Recreational,                              Lesser
religious,                 30      30      of 1-1/ 35’ or 33
institutional                              2 Xht/  stories
                                           50
Residential
facilities 1- 7,800  65’ 30      301,2           25’
6 served R-
2 R-3
Residential
facilities 1- 9,000  75’ 30      301,2           25’
6 served R-1
Residential
facilities 7- 13,000 100’30      30      40      25’
16 served R-5
Senior
citizen       20,000 100’30      30      20      35’3      1,000 500
housing
Single-family 6,000  50’ 20      25      8       35’       6,000 960
detached R-1
Single-family 5,000  25’ 20      25      5       35’       5,000 960
detached R-2
Single-family 5,000  25’ 20      25      5       35’3      5,000 960
attached R-3
Single-family 4,500  50’ 20      25      5       35’3      1,500 750
3 units
Townhouses R- 5,000  100’20      25      20      35’3      1,500 960
4
Two-family    6,000  50’ 20      25      5       35’3      3,000 750
dwelling R-3
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Side yard abutting a public right-of-way (street) shall be not less than
20 feet from the right-of-way.
(2) In a block where a lot fronts on a side street next to a lot which has
its side facing the same street, the setback on each lot shall be 20 feet
from the side street.
(3) Structures in excess of three stories or 35 feet are permitted as
conditional uses. For each additional story over 3 stories, or for each
additional 10 feet above 35 feet, front and side yard setback requirements
shall be increased 5 feet.
 
Density and Intensity Regulations Business Districts
     Min. Lot    Min. Lot Min. Setback Min. Setback Min. Setback Max. Height
Uses Size (s.f.) Width    in Feet      in Feet      in Feet      (Greater)
                 (s.f.)   (Front)      (Rear)       (Side)1
Density and Intensity Regulations Business Districts
                         Min. Lot Min.       Min.        Min.
Uses        Min. Lot     Width    Setback in Setback in  Setback in Max. Height
            Size (s.f.)  (s.f.)   Feet       Feet (Rear) Feet       (Greater)
                                  (Front)                (Side)1
Accessory
buildings,  Refer to §
uses and    11.30(A)
structures
All other
uses,
permitted                                                           35’ or 33
or          None         100’   30         20          10’2     stories
conditional
in the B-
2 District
All uses,
permitted
or          8,000        75’    30         20          15         25’ or 2
conditional                                                         stories
in the B-
1 District
B-                                                                  35’ or 33
1 District                                                          stories
B-                                                                  25’ or 23
2 District
Motels/     500/unit
hotels
Multiple
family in   2,700/unit   100’   30         20          10’2     35’ or 33
B-                                                                  stories
2 District
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Except in the Business District (B-1), no building shall be located closer
than 20 feet from any street right-of-way.
(2) A side yard that directly abuts a residential use or residential district
shall be increased to 10 additional feet over the minimum stated.
(3) Structures in excess of 3 stories or over 35 feet are permitted as
conditional uses. For each additional story over 3 stories or for each
additional 10 feet above 35 feet, front and side yard setback requirements
shall be increased 5 feet.
(4) A side yard that directly abuts a residential use or residential district
shall be increased 10 additional feet over the minimum stated above, and shall
be screened and landscaped.
(5) If abutting a residential use or residential district, the rear property
line shall be screened and landscaped.
 
 
Density and Intensity Regulations Industrial Districts
                                  Min.       Min.        Min.
Uses        Min. Lot     Min. Lot Setback in Setback in  Setback in Max. Height
            Size (s.f.)  Width    Feet       Feet (Rear) Feet       (Greater)
                                  (Front)                (Side)1
Accessory
buildings,  Refer to §                                             45’ or 3
uses and    11.30(A)                                                stories
structures
All uses,
permitted                                                           45’ or 3
or          None         100’   50         40          30         stories
conditional
in I-1
All uses,
permitted                                                           45’ or 3
or          None         100’   50         50          30         stories
conditional
in I-2
NOTES TO TABLE:
(1) Except in the Central Business District (B-1), no building shall be located
closer than 20 feet from any street right-of-way.
(2) Structures in excess of 3 stories or 45 feet are permitted as conditional
uses. For each additional story over 3 stories or for each additional 10 feet
above the 45 feet, front and side yard setback requirements shall be increased
5 feet, except for public housing for elderly.
 
   (C)   Mobile home park (independent or dependent).
      (1)   General provisions.
         (a)   No mobile home for residential purposes shall be permitted on
any site within the city unless the site is part of an approved mobile home
court or unless it is located on land purchased by the mobile home owner served
by utilities as required by state law, and the land has been, prior to the
effective date of this chapter, specially developed and formally platted for
the placement of mobile homes.
         (b)   Mobile homes shall not be used for residential purposes in the
city if they:
            1.   Do not conform to the requirements of the Vehicle Code of the
state;
            2.   Are in an unsanitary condition or have an exterior in bad
repair;
            3.   Are structurally unsound and do not protect the inhabitants
against all elements; and
            4.   Do not have adequate sewage facilities as required by the
Council in accordance with Pollution Control Agency regulations.
         (c)   All land areas shall be:
            1.   Adequately drained;
            2.   Landscaped to control dust; and
            3.   Clean and free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
         (d)   No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes in a
mobile home park.
         (e)   There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere in a mobile home
park.
         (f)   No public address or loudspeaker system shall be permitted in
the park.
         (g)   Dogs and animals shall not run at large within the mobile home
park.
         (h)   Access to mobile home parks shall be as approved by the city.
         (i)   The operator of every mobile home park shall maintain a registry
of the mobile home showing:
            1.   The name and address of each resident mobile home owner and
automobile;
            2.   The make, type and license number of each mobile home;
            3.   Forwarding address of all mobile units leaving the park; and
            4.   Date of arrival and departure of each mobile home.
         (j)   All structures (storage, cabana or other) shall require a
building permit from the Building Inspector.
         (k)   The area beneath a mobile home coach shall be enclosed; except
that, the enclosure must have access for inspection.
         (l)   No more than 10% of all trailer sites in a dependent mobile park
shall be occupied by transient (less than seven days occupancy) coaches.
         (m)   No building, cabana, carport, awning, storage closet, cupboard
or other structure shall be permitted on a transient trailer site, except
plumbing and electrical service connections.
         (n)   1.   Where the mobile home court is dependent, it shall have an
adequate central community building with the following features:
               a.   Laundry washing machines, drying areas and machines.
               b.   Showers; and
               c.   Public toilets and lavatories.
            2.   The building shall have central heating and be maintained in a
safe, clean and sanitary condition.
         (o)   In parks exceeding 50 lots, an attendant, caretaker or
responsible park employee shall be readily available at all times.
         (p)   A plan for the sheltering or the safe evacuation to a safe place
of shelter of the residents of the park in times of severe weather conditions
shall be developed.
      (2)   Site plan requirements.
         (a)   Legal description and size in acres of the proposed mobile home
court;
         (b)   Location and size of all mobile home sites, dead storage areas,
recreation areas, laundry drying areas, roadways, parking sites and all setback
dimensions (parking spaces and mobile home sites and the like);
         (c)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
         (d)   Location and width of sidewalks;
         (e)   Plan for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service and gas service;
         (f)   Location and size of all streets abutting the mobile home park
and all driveways from the streets to the mobile home park;
         (g)   Road construction plans and specifications;
         (h)   Plans for any and all structures;
         (i)   Other information as required or implied by these mobile home
court standards or requested by public officials;
         (j)   Name and address of developer or developers;
         (k)   Description of method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
         (l)   Detailed prescription of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision; and
         (m)   Details as to whether all of the area will be developed at once
or whether it will be developed a portion at a time.
      (3)   Design standards.
         (a)   Site.
            1.   Each mobile home site shall contain at least 4,000 square feet
of land for the exclusive use of the occupant:
               a.   Width: no less than 40 feet; and
               b.   Depth: no less than 100 feet.
            2.   Each mobile home site shall have frontage on an approved
roadway and the corner of each mobile home site shall be marked and each site
shall be numbered.
            3.   The minimum lot area for a mobile home court shall be 48,000
square feet.
         (b)   Setbacks.
            1.   No unit shall be parked closer than five feet to its side lot
lines, nor closer than 20 feet to its front lot line, nor closer than ten feet
to its rear lot line.
            2.   No unit, off-street parking space or building shall be located
within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of any mobile home court.
         (c)   Parking.
            1.   Each mobile home site shall have off-street parking space for
two automobiles.
            2.   Each mobile home park shall maintain a hard-surfaced off-
street parking lot for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each
five coach sites.
            3.   Access drives off parking spaces and each site shall be hard-
surfaced.
         (d)   Utilities.
            1.   All mobile homes shall be connected to a public water and
sanitary sewer system when they are available or to a private water and sewer
system approved by the state’s Department of Health when public facilities are
not available.
            2.   All installations for disposal of surface storm water must be
approved by the City Engineer.
            3.   All utility connections shall be as approved by the City
Engineer and the Department of Public Utilities.
            4.   The source of fuel for cooking, heating or other purposes at
each mobile home site shall be as approved by the Building Inspector.
            5.   All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no overhead
wires or supporting poles, except those essential for street or other lighting
purposes.
            6.   No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the inspection
of plumbing, electrical facilities and related mobile home equipment.
            7.   The method of garbage, waste and trash disposal must be
approved by the City Engineer.
         (e)   Internal roads and streets.
            1.   Roads shall be hard-surfaced as approved by City Engineer.
            2.   All roads shall have a hard-surfaced (mountable, roll type)
curb and gutter.
            3.   All streets shall be developed with a roadbed of not less than
24 feet in width. If parking is permitted on the streets, then the roadbed
shall be at least 36 feet in width.
         (f)   Recreation. All mobile home courts shall have at least 10% of
the land areas developed for recreational use developed and maintained at the
owner-operator’s expense.
         (g)   Landscaping.
            1.   Each site shall be properly landscaped with trees, hedges,
grass, fences, windbreaks and the like.
            2.   A compact hedge, redwood fence or landscaped area shall be
installed around each mobile home park and be maintained in first class
condition at all times as approved.
            3.   All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with landscaping
plan approved by the Council.
         (h)   Lighting.
            1.   Artificial light shall be maintained during all hours of
darkness in all buildings containing public toilets, laundry equipment and the
like.
            2.   The mobile home park grounds shall be lighted as approved by
the City Engineer from sunset to sunrise.
      (4)   Permitted accessory uses in an MH District.
         (a)   Garages, carports, storage sheds, recreational vehicles and
equipment, home occupations, essential services; and
         (b)   Weather shelter, community center swimming pools and other
recreational facilities which are operated for the exclusive use by residents
and their guests.
(Ord. 130, effective 3-1-1988)
§§ 11.14 THROUGH 11.29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 11.30 SPECIAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Accessory buildings, uses and structures. An accessory building shall
be considered an integral part of the principal building if it is connected to
the principal building by a covered passageway.
      (1)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses in residential districts.
         (a)   No accessory buildings, uses or structures shall be erected or
located in any required yard other than the rear yard; except that:
            1.   Detached private garages may be permitted in side yards,
provided they comply with all other requirements of this section, shall be
eight feet in R-1 District and five feet in R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 District or
more from side lot lines, shall not be located closer than five feet from the
principal structure, and the side yard does not abut a street right-of-way; and
            2.   Accessory buildings or structures may be located in the side
yards of corner lots; provided that, the size of the structure does not exceed
150 square feet and the structure shall be located 20 feet or more from all
public right-of-way.
         (b)   Accessory buildings, uses and structures shall not exceed 50
feet in height, shall have setback requirements as in §
11.11 of this chapter from all lot lines, shall be six feet or more from any
other building or structure on the same lot, and shall not be located within a
utility easement. Private garage structures with vehicular access doors facing
public alleys shall not be located closer than five feet from the alley right-
of-way.
         (c)   For single- and two-family dwellings, a maximum of two accessory
buildings per lot shall be allowed. No accessory structure or structures shall
occupy more than 30% of a rear yard, nor exceed 1,000 square feet of total
floor area.
         (d)   For townhouses, multi-family structures and non-residential
uses, accessory structures shall not occupy more than 30% of the rear lot or
exceed 30% of the gross floor area of the principal use, whichever is the
lesser.
         (e)   No permit shall be issued for the construction of more than one
detached private garage structure for each dwelling. Each applicant for a
building permit to construct any dwelling shall be required to provide off-
street parking space for at least one automobile per family to be housed in
addition to any garage space to be used. Every single-family and two-family
residential structure hereafter erected shall be so located on the lot so that
at least a two-car garage, either attached or detached, can be located on the
lot. Structures such as air conditioning cooling structures or condensers which
generate noise may be located in a side yard, except for side yards abutting
streets where equipment is fully screened from view.
         (f)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, as it
may be amended from time to time, the city opts out of the requirements of M.S.
§ 462.3593, as it may be amended from time to time, which defines and regulates
temporary family health care dwellings.
(Amended 10-25-2016)
      (2)   Accessory structures and uses in commercial and industrial
districts.
         (a)   Accessory building uses and structures shall be six feet or more
from any other building or structure on the same lot, and shall not be located
within a utility easement.
         (b)   Accessory buildings or structures shall not exceed in area 30%
of the gross floor area of the principal use.
            1.   Accessory buildings, uses or structures may exceed in area 30%
of the gross floor area of the principal use as a conditional use:
               a.   Applicable setbacks are met;
               b.   Combined lot coverage of the principal and accessory
structures shall not exceed 50%;
               c.   Location and appearance of the structure is compatible with
the surrounding neighborhood; and
               d.   Accessory buildings, uses or structures shall be erected
located in the rear yard, subject to one-half the side yard setback
requirements and one-half of the rear yard setback requirements of the
applicable zoning district.
            2.   Accessory buildings, uses or structures may be erected or
located in side yards as a conditional use:
               a.   Applicable side yard setbacks are met;
               b.   Accessory buildings, structures or uses shall be located
ten feet behind the front building line of the principal structure, or maintain
a front yard setback of 20 feet; and
               c.   Location and appearance of structures is compatible with
surrounding neighborhood.
   (B)   Yard encroachments, not applicable. The following shall not be
considered as encroachments on yard setback requirements: chimneys; flues; belt
courses; leaders; sills; pilasters; lintels; ornamental features; cornices;
eaves; gutters; steps; stoops; bay windows; and the like; provided, they do not
project more than four feet into a yard.
   (C)   Height limitations, not applicable.
      (1)   The building height limits established in this chapter for
districts shall not apply to the following:
         (a)   Belfries;
         (b)   Chimneys or flues;
         (c)   Church spires, not exceeding 20 feet above roof;
         (d)   Cooling towers;
         (e)   Cupolas and domes which do not contain usable space;
         (f)   Elevator penthouses;
         (g)   Flag poles;
         (h)   Monuments;
         (i)   Parapet walls extending not more than three feet above the
limiting height of the building;
         (j)   Water towers;
         (k)   Poles, towers and other structures for essential services;
         (l)   Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances;
         (m)   Television and radio antennas (not to exceed 75 feet in height
above grade); and
         (n)   Wind energy conversion systems.
      (2)   No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending beyond
the limited height of a building may occupy more than 25% of the area of the
roof nor exceed ten feet unless otherwise noted.
   (D)   Refuse. In all districts, all waste, refuse or garbage shall be kept
in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container designed
for such purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible for keeping
the land free of refuse and weeds. Passenger automobiles, station wagons and
trucks not currently licensed by the state, or which are, because of mechanical
deficiency, incapable of movement under their own power, parked or stored
outside for a period in excess of 30 days, shall be regulated as provided by
the laws of the state.
   (E)   Outside storage. In all residential districts, all personal property
shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to be visible
from adjoining properties and public streets, except for the following: laundry
drying; recreational equipment; construction and landscaping materials;
equipment currently (within a period of 12 months) being used on the premises;
agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or intended for use on
the premises; off-street parking of licensed passenger automobiles and pickup
trucks.
   (F)   Land reclamation. Under this chapter, land reclamation is the
reclaiming of land by depositing of materials so as to elevate the grade. Land
reclamation shall be permitted only by conditional use permit in all districts.
Any lot or parcel upon which 400 cubic yards or more of fill is to be deposited
shall come under the controls of land reclamation. The permit shall include as
a condition thereof a finished grade plan which will not adversely affect the
adjacent land, and as conditions thereof, shall regulate the type of fill
permitted, program for rodent control, plan for fire control and general
maintenance of the site, controls of vehicular ingress and egress and control
of wind-blown material or hauling of material to or from the site.
   (G)   Mining. Except for excavation for construction of a building, the
extraction of sand, gravel or other material from the land in the amount of 400
cubic yards or more and removal thereof from the site without processing shall
be defined as mining. In all districts, except the Mining Open Space District,
the conduct of mining shall be permitted only upon issuance of a conditional
use permit. The permit shall include, as a condition thereof, a plan for a
finished grade which will not adversely affect the surrounding land or the
development of the site on which the mining is being conducted, and the route
of trucks moving to and from the site.
   (H)   Soil processing. The operation of processing sand, gravel or other
material mined from the land shall be permitted only by conditional use permit.
The conditional use permit shall include a site plan where the processing is to
be done, showing the location of the plant, disposal of water, route of trucks
moving to and from the site in removing processed material from the site. The
permit shall be granted for a specified period of time to be determined by the
Planning and Zoning Commission based on the type of project and the criteria
established for the project by the Commission.
(Amended 4-20-1996)
   (I)   Student housing. Any detached dwelling unit utilized on a rental bases
by three or more single high school or college students shall require a
conditional use permit. All student housing shall comply with all state, city,
county or other regulations affecting the health, safety and convenience of
occupants.
   (J)   Bulk storage (liquid, gas, grain and the like). Above and below ground
storage tanks, bins, elevators and the like shall be regulated in accordance
with applicable city, state and federal regulations, including the applicable
Building Codes, State Fire Code and regulations of the Pollution Control
Agency. All necessary federal, state and local permits and approvals shall be
obtained. The Council may require that all existing above ground liquid in free
state storage tanks having a capacity of 300 gallons or more be diked, and
suitably sealed, to hold a leakage capacity equal to 115% of tank capacity, and
also have state’s Fire Marshal approval. Any existing storage tanks either
above or below ground that, in the opinion of the Council, constitutes a hazard
to public safety shall be discontinued.
   (K)   Relocated structures.
      (1)   Before any house or other structure is moved onto a vacant lot, a
conditional use permit must be secured. No such structure shall be moved by
other than a licensed and bonded mover, except for accessory buildings less
than 250 square feet, which may be moved by the owner if approved by the
Building Inspector. Accessory buildings of 500 square feet or less, and less
than 15 feet in height may not require a conditional use permit if, in the
judgment of the Building Inspector, its condition and appearance would be
compatible with the area and intended use. New and sectional dwellings, whether
in whole or in part, may not need a conditional use permit if they comply with
the Building Code or other requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hold a public hearing
according to the provisions of this chapter on each application to move or
relocate a structure to determine its compatibility with the surrounding
structures and area of the proposed site of relocation. The Building Inspector
shall report to the Planning and Zoning Commission concerning structural
soundness of the building; recommended improvements to both the structure and
the site, and restoration of the original site. The Building Inspector shall
also submit for the Planning and Zoning Commission’s review and approval a
schedule of estimated costs for the above.
      (3)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall submit to the Council its
recommendation as to the issuance or denial of the conditional use permit,
together with recommended conditions (if recommendation is for issuance)
including, when applicable, the condition that title to the property and
structure cannot be sold or conveyed until the project has been completed and
approved by the Building Inspector, a date by which the relocation and all
recommended improvements to structure and site, and restoration of original
site shall be accomplished; and a signed agreement from the applicant that the
conditions, recommended improvements and completion date are accepted.
      (4)   (a)   If the Council approves the issuance of a conditional use
permit, the applicant shall, before either the conditional use permit or moving
permit is issued, deposit with the City Clerk as guarantee to the neighborhood
that the recommended improvements will be completed as agreed to by the
applicant, a certified check or cashier’s check payable to the city or in cash
in an amount equal to 20% of the Building Inspector’s estimate of all the costs
of relocation, improvement to structure, improvement to the proposed site and
restoration of the original site, as prescribed by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and concurred with by the Council.
         (b)   Unless the Council grants an extension of the time for
completion of the project, 10% of the original amount deposited shall be
forfeited for each day that the project remains incomplete past the agreed upon
completion date.
         (c)   When the Building Inspector shall certify that the project has
been completed, the City Clerk shall return to the applicant all the moneys
remaining in the deposit.
      (5)   Before the Building Inspector shall issue a permit to move a
structure over any public right-of-way, the applicant shall pay the required
fee and complete the application for building moving permit and moving approval
form. Requirements shall not apply to construction sheds or temporary
construction offices located on the lot for 18 months or less during a
construction project.
   (L)   General fencing, screening and landscaping.
      (1)   All fences or walls to be constructed require a building permit.
      (2)   Fences, walks, trees or other obstructions placed upon utility
easements are subject to removal if required for the maintenance or improvement
of the utility. Trees on utility easements containing overhead wires shall not
exceed ten feet in height.
      (3)   Lot hedges, walls and fences (height):
 
                  Height
Corner lot height 2 (set in 20’)
Front yard        4’ (chain link/see through fencing)
Side or rear yard 6’
 
      (4)   Fences and walls may be erected along property lines; provided
that, adjacent property owners agree and property boundaries can be established
and the type of fence will be such as to not require maintenance on the side
abutting adjacent property.
      (5)   Fences (except chain link/see through fencing) no higher than four
feet above finished grade shall be permitted within required front yards in
residential and commercial districts.
         (a)   Fences (chain link/see through fencing) no higher than four feet
above finished grade shall be permitted within required front yards in
residential and commercial districts.
      (6)   In commercial and residential districts, fences of not higher than
six feet above finished grade and walls 42 inches high or less shall be
permitted within rear yards and that portion of the side yard setback not a
part of the front yard.
      (7)   Both sides of the fence must be maintained in respectable condition
by the owner of the fence.
      (8)   Barbed wire or electric fences shall not be permitted, used or
constructed.
      (9)   Property line fences in any industrial district shall not exceed
eight feet in height; except that:
         (a)   Fences erected along a property line in common with a
residential district shall be subject to the provisions herein described in
residential district fences;
         (b)   Fences in industrial districts which are primarily erected as a
security measure may have arms projecting into the applicant's property on
which barbed wire can be fastened commencing at a point at least seven feet
above the ground; and
         (c)   Such fence shall not be erected within the landscaped portion of
the front yard of any industrial establishment.
   (M)   Planned unit development in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 8-13-2024)
§§ 11.31 THROUGH 11.39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 11.40 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Required fencing, screening and landscaping. The fencing and screening
required by this chapter shall be subject to §
11.30(L) of this chapter and shall consist of either a fence or a green belt
planting strip.
      (1)   A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen ground cover
and shall be of sufficient width and density to provide an effective screen.
This planting strip shall contain no structures or other use. The planting
strip shall not be less than eight feet in height. Earth mounding or berms may
be used, but shall not be used to achieve more than three feet of the required
screen. The planting plan and type of shrub shall require the approval of the
Planning and Zoning Commission based upon recommendations of the Building
Inspector.
      (2)   (a)   A required screening fence shall be constructed of masonry,
brick, wood or steel. The fence shall provide a solid screening effect and
shall not be less than six feet in height.
         (b)   The design and materials used in constructing a required
screening fence shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission
based upon recommendation of the Building Inspector.
      (3)   Screening shall be provided in the following situations.
         (a)   Residential districts.
            1.   Screening from abutting residential uses shall be provided in
the following instances: public utility buildings and structures; all open,
non-residential off-street parking areas of five or more spaces.
            2.   Screening from abutting R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5 Districts
shall be provided in the following instances: professional offices and clinics.
            3.   Side yards can be screened in the following instances: nursing
homes and group housing.
         (b)   Business districts. Screening from abutting residential
districts shall be provided in the following instances: public utility
buildings and structures, convenience food, car wash, motor fuel station, major
auto repair, tire and battery stores and sendee, open and outdoor storage,
service, sales and rentals, greenhouses and all open off-street parking areas
of five or more spaces.
         (c)   Industrial districts. Screening from abusing residential
districts and view from a public right-of-way shall be provided in the
following instances: open and outdoor storage, service, sales and/or rentals;
all open, off-street parking areas of five or more spaces.
   (B)   Explosives. No activities involving the storage, utilization or
manufacture of materials or products such as TNT or dynamite which could
decompose by detonation shall be permitted, except such as are specifically
licensed by the Council.
   (C)   Radiation and electrical emissions.
      (1)   No activities shall be permitted that emit dangerous and
radioactivity beyond enclosed areas.
      (2)   There shall be no electrical disturbance (except from domestic
household appliances) adversely affecting the operation at any point of any
equipment other than that of the creator of the disturbance.
   (D)   Lighting and glare. Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street
parking area, sign or other structure shall be arranged as to deflect light
away from any adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or
sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high temperature
processes such as combustion or welding, shall not be directed into any
adjoining property. The source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in the
manner so as not to light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs
shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or public right-of-way.
Except for street lighting provided by the public utilities, any light or
combination of lights which cast light on a public street shall not exceed one
footcandle (meter reading) as measured from the centerline of the street. Any
light or combination of lights which cast light on residential property shall
not exceed 0.4 footcandles (meter reading) as measured from the property.
   (E)   Smoke. The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the state’s pollution control standards, Minn. Regs. APC 1-15.
   (F)   Dust and other particulate matter. The emission of dust, fly ash or
other particulate matter by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the state’s Pollution Control Standards, Minn. Regs. APC 1-15.
   (G)   Odors. The emission of odor by any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the state’s pollution control standards, Minn. Regs. APC 1-15.
   (H)   Noise. All noise shall be in compliance with and regulated by the
state’s pollution control standards, Minn. Regs. APC 1-15. In instances where
it is determined that a proposed land use may generate a level of noise or
vibration that will impact on surrounding land uses, the Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Council may require that efforts to reduce the potential
noise impact be undertaken. These efforts may include screening, landscaping,
site planning techniques and restrictions on operating hours.
   (I)   Drainage. On request, a drainage plan for the proposed development
shall be submitted to the City Engineer for review and approval.
   (J)   Required license obtained. Proof of the issuance of all necessary
governmental permits and licenses must be filed with the city.
   (K)   Outside sales or storage. In the case of outside storage or sales, the
area must be grassed or surfaced to control dust.
   (L)   Signs.
      (1)   Residential - R-1, R-2, R-3, R-4 and R-5.
         (a)   Type: identification signs only;
         (b)   Number: one per dwelling;
         (c)   Size: one and one-half square feet for residential
identification;
         (d)   Height: six feet above curb level;
         (e)   Projection into set-back area: any sign over one and one-half
square feet shall be set back at least five feet from any property line;
         (f)   Illumination: lighting for illuminated signs must be indirect or
diffused, but not flashing; and
         (g)   LED signs, LCD signs and/or similar technologies are not allowed
in residential district.
      (2)   Business Districts - B-1, B-2, I-1, I-2 and MO.
         (a)   Type: identification, business and outdoor advertising;
         (b)   Number: business sign - one per principal entrance plus one for
whole shopping center or highway business;
         (c)   Size: 64 square feet;
         (d)   Height: signs shall not be higher from roof than seven feet to
top of sign, and the highest point of any pedestal sign measured from the
adjacent ground to the top of the sign shall not exceed 25 feet;
         (e)   Projection: to be within three feet of street right-of-way;
         (f)   Illumination: signs permitted; illuminated and non-flashing; and
         (g)   Electronic signs are allowed with the following standards:
            1.   No scrolling messages allowed in the B-2 District adjacent to
the Highway 53 right-of-way;
            2.   Only lettering portion of sign shall be animated;
            3.   Any image or message or portion thereof displayed on the sign
shall have a minimum duration of 15 seconds and shall be static display.
Transition time must be no longer than two seconds; no black space is allowed
in between message changes;
            4.   Electronic signs such as gas prices, time and temperature will
not be restricted in time change, but must follow all signage regulations set
forth in this chapter;
            5.   Any electronic signs will require the approval of the City
Engineering Department;
            6.   No electronic “billboards” will be allowed in any district;
            7.   The maximum brightness of electronic signs shall not exceed
5,000 nits (candelas per square meter) during daylight hours, or of 500 nits
(candelas per square meter) between dusk to dawn. The sign must have an
automatic dimmer control which produces a distinct illumination change from a
higher allowed illumination level to a lower allowed level for the time period
between one-half hour before sunset and one-half hour after sunrise;
            8.   All approved electronic signs shall be made available for
usage for Amber Alerts and other emergency community notifications as deemed
necessary by the Police Chief;
            9.   All graphics and lettering must meet public decency standards;
            10.   No electronic signs within 200 feet of any railroad crossing;
            11.   Government entities are exempt from ordinance;
            12.   No portable electronic signs;
            13.   Sign cannot project from building face more than 18 inches;
            14.   Electronic signs shall contain a default design that will
freeze the design in one position if a malfunction occurs; and
            15.   Audio speakers or any form of pyrotechnics are prohibited.
      (3)   Performance standards - all districts.
         (a)   Any sign installed within 125 feet of a traffic signal shall be
non-flashing and may not be of red, green or amber illumination. No sign may be
erected that by reason of position, shape or color would interfere with the
proper functioning of a traffic sign or signal.
         (b)   Except for a temporary sign, all signs painted on buildings and
fences shall be refurbished.
         (c)   “For Rent” and “For Sale” signs may be placed in any front yard,
in any district; provided, the signs do not exceed ten square feet in
residential districts and 32 square feet in other districts.
         (d)   Signs advertising new home developments may be constructed in
any district; providing, the sign is not over 300 square feet, is at least 200
feet from any occupied home and is removed within two years.
         (e)   Existing signs that do not comply with these performance
standards shall be considered as non-conforming uses. All signs in the city
shall be conforming when refurbished.
         (f)   No sign shall overhang the public right-of-way, except traffic
control signs.
         (g)   The source of light for any illuminated sign shall not be
directed into any street or property used or zoned for residential purposes.
         (h)   There shall be no use of revolving beacons, zip flashers or
similar device that would so distract automobile traffic as to constitute a
safety hazard.
         (i)   To provide reasonable flexibility in these regulations, the
Building Inspector may, subject to the approval of the Commission, approve an
application for a sign that exceeds the number, size or height, or signs
permitted by these regulations where the exception would not be inconsistent
with the intent of regulations.
         (j)   Any and all portable signs that may be permitted under the
general sign provisions of this chapter shall have a maximum size of four feet
by eight feet and must conform in use and location with any and all other
provisions of this chapter. A portable sign may be permitted and utilized by
any eligible premises and/or occupant for a period not to exceed three weeks
total in any six-month period. Upon the user’s commencement of the utilization
of the portable sign, the user shall notify the city’s Engineering Department
of how long the portable sign is to be utilized and when it will be removed.
Except for these provisions, no portable signing may be utilized within any
district within the city.
(Amended 4-19-2008)
   (M)   Marquees. Marquees shall be permitted according to construction
standards set by the City Engineer.
   (N)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Off-street parking space requirements. Off-street parking space
shall be provided in connection with the erection or increase by units or
dimension of any building or structure in the following amounts:
         (a)   One-family and two-family dwellings: one and one-half parking
space per family dwelling unit;
         (b)   Multi-family dwellings: one and one-half parking space per
family dwelling unit;
         (c)   Hotels: one parking space for each three guests or sleeping
rooms and suites, plus two additional spaces for each five employees, plus
additional space as shall be deemed necessary by the Council because of any
supplementary parking-generating activities of some hotels such as bars,
ballrooms, night club facilities and the like;
         (d)   Tourist homes, cabins or motels: one parking space for each
guest or sleeping room or suite, plus one additional space for the owner or
manager if resident on the premises;
         (e)   Lodging, rooming and boarding houses: one parking space for each
five guests, plus one additional space for the owner or manager if resident on
the premises;
         (f)   Private clubs or lodges: parking spaces equal in number to not
less than 30% of the active membership thereof, plus one additional space for
each two employees;
         (g)   Fraternities, sororities and dormitories: one parking space for
each five active members (attending school), plus one additional space for the
housemother or manager, plus one additional space for each two employees;
         (h)   Hospitals, sanatoriums or convalescent homes: one parking space
for each four patient beds (excluding bassinets), plus one additional space for
each staff or visiting doctor, plus one additional space for each two employees
including nurses. Loading and unloading space for hospital ambulances and
similar vehicles are not included in the spaces required herein;
         (i)   Medical or dental clinics: three parking spaces per doctor
engaged therein, plus one additional space for each two employees;
         (j)   Mortuaries or funeral parlors: one parking space for each
official vehicle, plus one space for each family resident on the premises, plus
additional spaces equal in number to at least 30% of the number of employees
(other than resident on the premises), plus such additional space for business
visitors as shall be considered necessary by the Council;
         (k)   Welfare institutions (homes for the aged, orphanages and the
like): one parking space for each ten staff or visiting doctors, plus
additional spaces equal in number to at least 50% of the number of employees,
plus each additional space for business and social visitors as shall be deemed
necessary by the Council;
         (l)   Community centers, libraries, museums, post offices, civic clubs
and similar uses: parking spaces equal in number to at least 30% of the number
of employees, plus such additional space for members and business or social
visitors as shall be deemed necessary by the Council;
         (m)   Dance halls: three additional spaces for each 36 square feet of
dance floor area, plus additional spaces equal in number to at least 30% of the
number of employees;
         (n)   Bowling alleys: two parking spaces for each alley, plus
additional spaces equal in number to at least 50% of the number of employees;
         (o)   Parks, playgrounds, swimming pools and similar uses: parking
spaces equal in number to at least 50% of the number of employees, plus such
additional space for social and business visitors as shall be deemed necessary
by the Council;
         (p)   Theaters: one parking space for each four seats, plus additional
spaces equal in number to at least 50% of the number of employees;
         (q)   Auditoriums, gymnasiums, stadiums, sports arenas or similar
uses: one parking space for each six seats, plus additional spaces equal in
number to at least 50% of the number of employees. Where individual seats are
not provided, each 20 inches of benches or other similar seating shall be
considered as one seat for the purposes of determining requirements hereunder;
         (r)   Churches: one parking space for each six seats. Where individual
seats are not provided, each 20 inches of benches or other similar seating
shall be considered as one seat for the purposes of determining requirements
hereunder;
         (s)   Schools: one parking space for each two employees including
teachers and administrators, plus sufficient off-street space for the safe and
convenient loading and unloading of students, plus such additional facilities
for student parking as the Council shall deem necessary;
         (t)   Office, professional or public buildings: one parking space for
each separate office or suite of offices of a given tenancy, plus one
additional space for each four employees including all occupants, and such
additional space as the Council shall deem necessary;
         (u)   Railroad passenger stations, bus depots or other passenger
terminal facilities: such parking space as the Council shall deem to be
adequate for employees, for loading and unloading of passengers, and for
spectators, visitors and others;
         (v)   Restaurants, night clubs, tearooms, lunch counters or the like:
one parking space for each four employees, plus such additional space for
patron parking as the Council shall deem necessary;
         (w)   Roadside stands, filling stations, repair shops or other
roadside sendee establishments: one parking space for each two employees, and
such additional space for customer-motorists as the Council shall deem
necessary in order to provide a maximum of safety and a minimum of congestion
on the adjacent roadways;
         (x)   General business, commercial and personal service
establishments: the parking facilities as the Council shall deem necessary on
the basis of the number of employees and the number of business patrons.
Shopping centers shall have five square feet parking space for each one square
foot of total floor area;
         (y)   Industrial or manufacturing establishments: one parking space
for each three employees (based upon the maximum number employed at any one
time), plus additional space as shall be required for all vehicles used
directly or indirectly in the conduct of the enterprise; and
         (z)   For any and all uses or structures not specifically provided for
in the foregoing enumeration: such parking space as the Council shall determine
to be necessary considering all parking generating factors involved.
      (2)   Change in requirements. Whenever after the effective date of this
chapter, there is a change in the number of employees or business visitors, or
in the lawful use of the premises or in any other unit of measurement specified
in division (N)(1) above and, whenever the change creates a need for an
increase or decrease of more than 15% of the number of off-street parking
spaces as determined by the requirements of this division (N), more or less
parking spaces shall be provided within a reasonable time on the basis of the
adjusted needs, as determined by this division (N)(2). In case of unusual
hardship arising out of the requirements of this division (N), recourse may be
had to the Council.
      (3)   Mixed uses. In the case of mixed uses, the parking facilities
required shall be the sum of the requirements for the various individual uses,
computed separately in accordance with this division (N). Parking facilities
for one use shall not be considered as providing the required parking
facilities for any other use.
      (4)   Location of facilities. Special purpose off-street parking
facilities, to the extent required in this division (N), may be provided either
on the same lot or premises with the parking generator or on any lot or
premises a substantial portion of which, at least, is within 800 feet of the
parking generator.
      (5)   Design standards.
         (a)   All off-street parking facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley as well as
maneuvering areas. No driveway or curb cuts in any district shall exceed 28
feet throat width and detailed plans shall be submitted to the proper officials
for approval of all curb cuts or driveway openings before a permit may be
obtained therefor.
         (b)   Parking areas shall be paved with an asphaltic or concrete
surfacing, afford adequate drainage and shall have bumper guards where needed.
         (c)   Parking areas shall be used for vehicle parking only with no
sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling or servicing of any kind.
         (d)   If lighting is provided, it shall be arranged to reflect away
from any residential area and away from any public street or highway.
      (6)   Off-street loading. On the same premises with every building
devoted to retail trade, retail and wholesale food markets, warehouses, supply
houses, wholesale or manufacturing trade, hotels, hospitals, laundries, dry
cleaning establishments or other buildings where large amounts of goods are
received or shipped, erected in any district after the effective date of this
chapter, there shall be provided loading and unloading space to be determined
by the Council.
      (7)   Parking lots in residential districts. When, in its opinion, the
best interests of the community will be served thereby, the Council may permit,
temporarily or permanently, the use of land in a residence district, other than
a one-family district, for a parking lot where the land abuts or is across the
street from a district other than a residence district; provided that:
         (a)   The lot is to be used only for parking of passenger automobiles
of employees, customers or guests of the person or firm controlling and
operating the lots, who shall be responsible for its maintenance;
         (b)   No charge is to be made for parking on the lot;
         (c)   The lot is not to be used for sales, repair work or servicing of
any kind;
         (d)   Entrance to and exit from the lot are to be located so as to do
the least harm to the residential district;
         (e)   No advertising sign or material is to be located on the lot;
         (f)   All parking is to be kept back of the setback building line by
barrier unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Council;
         (g)   The parking lot and that portion of the driveway back of the
setback line is to be adequately screened from the street and from adjoining
property in a residence district by a hedge or sightly fence or wall not less
than six feet high and not more than eight feet high located back of the
setback line. All lighting is to be arranged so that there will be no glare
therefrom annoying to the occupants of adjoining property in a residence
district and surfacing of the parking lot is to be smoothly graded, hard-
surfaced and adequately drained; and
         (h)   Such other conditions as may be deemed necessary by the Council
to protect the character of the residential district.
(Ord. 130, effective 3-1-1988)
§ 11.41 BLIGHTING FACTORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Causes of blight or blighting factors. It is hereby determined that
the uses, structures and activities and causes of blight or blighting factors
described herein, if allowed to exist, will tend to result in blighted and
undesirable neighborhoods so as to be harmful to the public welfare; health and
safety. The purpose of this section is to protect the character and stability
of the properties within the city and to avoid blight and blighted conditions.
The owner and occupant shall comply with the regulations contained herein.
   (B)   Exterior property areas; vacant properties.
      (1)   Sanitation. All exterior property areas and vacant areas shall be
maintained in a clean and sanitary condition, safe and free from any hazard or
dangerous conditions, and free from any accumulation of refuse or garbage.
      (2)   Free from noxious weeds and pests. All exterior property areas and
vacant areas shall be kept free from species of weeds or plant growth, rodents,
vermin or other pests which are noxious or detrimental to the public welfare.
      (3)   Junk automobiles.
         (a)   In any area not zoned for junkyards or salvage yards, the
storage of junk automobiles is prohibited.
         (b)   For the purpose of this section, the term JUNK AUTOMOBILES shall
include any motor vehicle, part of a motor vehicle, or former motor vehicles
stored in the open, which is not currently licensed for use upon the highways
of the state and is either:
             1.   Unusable or inoperable because of lack of, or defects in
component parts;
            2.   Unusable or inoperable because of damage from collision,
deterioration, or having been cannibalized;
            3.    Beyond repair and therefore not intended for future use as a
motor vehicle; or
            4.   Being retained on the property for possible use of salvageable
parts.
         (b)   This regulation is in addition to any zoning regulations.
   (C)   Exterior of structures.
      (1)   The exterior of all structures and accessory structures including
detached garages, shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair.
      (2)   Every exterior wall shall be free of holes, breaks, loose or
rotting boards or timbers, falling or loose stucco or substantial amounts of
peeling paint.
      (3)   All doors and windows shall be maintained in good repair, fit
reasonably well within their frames and be free of open breaks or holes.
   (D)   Interior areas of structures, including residential dwellings.
      (1)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained in clean and
sanitary condition, free of accumulations of garbage and refuse.
      (2)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained free from
infestation of noxious insects, rodents and other pests.
      (3)   All plumbing systems shall be properly installed, connected and
maintained in good working order, and must be kept free from obstructions,
leaks and defects.
      (4)   The storage of excessive or unreasonable amounts of hazardous,
flammable liquids shall be prohibited in areas not zoned for the use.
   (E)   Vacated structures; vacant properties. The owner of any dwelling which
is unfit for human habitation, as determined by the enforcement officer in good
faith, and the owner of any structure which has been vacant for a period of 60
days or more, shall make same safe and secure so that it is not hazardous to
the health, safety and welfare of the public, and does not constitute a public
nuisance. Any such structure open at doors and windows, if unguarded, shall be
deemed to be a hazard to the health, safety and welfare of the public, and a
public nuisance within the meaning of this chapter. The owner of the vacant
property shall make said lands safe and secure by barricading or fencing the
property or the like, or by placing the lands in their natural unimproved
condition and removing all dangerous conditions. Upon failure of the owner to
comply, the city may have the structure or vacant property made safe and secure
or remove the dangerous condition, and assess the cost to the owner by
certifying such cost to the County Auditor as a special assessment against the
property involved.
   (F)   Enforcement officer. The health and safety officer of the city is
appointed as the enforcement officer and it is the enforcement officer’s duty
to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Inspection of structures, vacant properties; generally. The
enforcement officer shall be authorized to make or cause to be made inspections
to determine the condition of structures and premises and vacant properties in
order to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of the public. The
enforcement officer, or his or her designated representatives, shall be
authorized to inspect any vacant areas and the exterior areas of any structures
at any reasonable time for the purpose of performing his or her duties under
this chapter. If the owner, operator or person in possession of the structure
shall refuse to consent to the inspection, and there is probable cause to
believe that a violation exists on that particular premises, a search warrant
may be obtained.
   (H)   Compliance order. Whenever the enforcement officer determines that any
structure or the premises fail to meet the provisions of this chapter, the
enforcement officer may issue a compliance order setting forth the violations
of this chapter and ordering the owner, occupant, operator or agent to correct
the violations. The compliance order shall:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Describe the location and nature of the violations of this chapter;
      (3)   Establish a time for the correction of the violation, which shall
be at least ten days;
      (4)   Notify of ability to appeal to the City Council;
      (5)   Be served upon the violator, either the owner, occupant, operator
or agent. The notice shall be deemed to be properly served upon the violator if
a copy thereof is:
         (a)   Served upon him or her personally; or
         (b)   Sent by registered or certified mail to that person’s address or
to the property address.
   (I)   Variance and appeals. Appeals of interpretation or requests for a
variance shall be made in writing to the City Council, and shall be filed with
the City Clerk’s office within three days after receipt of the compliance
order. The City Council, in its discretion, may elect to hear appeals or
requests for variance when made more than three days after the receipt of the
compliance order, but the action by the City Council is completely
discretionary, and shall not delay or prevent criminal prosecution or other
enforcement actions, unless the City Council grants the appeal or grants the
variance prior to the completion of the enforcement activities. The City
Council may grant variances in instances where the strict enforcement of this
chapter would cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the
individual property under consideration and when it is demonstrated that the
action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of this chapter.
(Amended 6-26-2012)
   (J)   Enforcement and penalties. Violation of any provision of this chapter,
and failure to comply with the notice provided by this chapter within the time
allowed therein shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation is
allowed to exist shall constitute a separate offense. Further, the provisions
of this chapter may be enforced by injunctive relief.
      (1)   Any weeds or grasses growing upon any lot or land within the city
in which the weeds or grasses grow to a height greater than six inches, or
which have gone or are about to go to seed, are a nuisance. The owner and
occupant shall abate or prevent the nuisance on the property, and on the land
outside the traveled portion of any street or alley abutting the property.
      (2)   The accumulation of garbage, refuse or other materials upon any lot
or parcel of land within the city, exclusive of garbage, refuse or other
materials placed in any containers for the purpose of garbage disposal is a
nuisance. The owner and occupant of the property shall abate or prevent the
nuisance upon the property and upon the land outside the traveled portion of
any street or alley abutting the property.
      (3)   In the event that any of the nuisances described within this
section occur within the city, the enforcement officer may give notice to the
owner and occupant requiring the owner/occupant to abate the nuisance within
ten days of receipt of the notice. Notice shall be served upon the owner/
occupant personally, or sent by registered or certified mail to that person’s
address or to the property address. Owners of property may be determined by any
practicable means, including by the records of the County Auditor, which shall
be deemed conclusive. If the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed
as set forth in the notice, unless good cause is shown by the owner or occupant
for an additional period of time, the city may cause the weeds and grasses to
be cut and removed at the expense of the owner and occupant, and may remove any
garbage, refuse or other materials accumulated on the property at the expense
of the owner and occupant and, if not paid, the charge for the work shall be a
special assessment against the property concerned.
(Amended 6-2-1994)
§§ 11.42 THROUGH 11.49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 11.50 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative officer.
      (1)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Building
Inspector who shall be appointed by the Council.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall enforce this chapter through the
proper legal channels and in addition therefore and in furtherance of the
authority, he or she shall:
         (a)   Determine that all building permits comply with the terms of
this chapter;
         (b)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter,
including, but not limited to, all maps, amendments, conditional uses,
variances, appeals and applications therefor;
         (c)   Receive, file and forward all applications for appeal,
variances, conditional uses and other matters to the designated official
bodies;
         (d)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate actions or
proceeding against a violator as provided by law; and
         (e)   Schedule public hearings for the Planning and Zoning Commission.
   (B)   Planning and Zoning Commission. The Planning and Zoning Commission is
hereby established by City Charter, Ch. 6, §§ 29, 30 and 36 and vested with the
administrative authority as is hereinafter provided. The Planning and Zoning
Commission shall have power to recommend to the Council adjustments and
exceptions in and to any of the provisions of this chapter to the extent herein
provided.
   (C)   Board of Appeals.
      (1)   There is hereby established a Board of Appeals which shall consist
of all the members of the Council.
      (2)   The Board shall have the power and duty of hearing and deciding,
appeals or requests in the following cases:
         (a)   Appeals where it is alleged that there is any error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Planning and Zoning
Commission in the enforcement of this chapter; and
         (b)   Requests for variances from the literal provisions of this
chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship
because of circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration.
In granting a variance, the Planning and Zoning Commission and the Council, on
appeal may impose conditions to insure compliance and to protect adjacent
properties.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   Authority. The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from
and review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Planning and Zoning Commission in the enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Procedure.
         (a)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person or
by any officer, department, board or commission of the city affected by a
decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission. The appeal shall be taken
within 45 days of the action complained of by filing with the Planning and
Zoning Commission and with the City Clerk a notice of appeal, specifying the
grounds thereof. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall forthwith transmit to
the Board of Appeals all of the papers constituting the record which the action
appealed from was taken.
         (b)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from, unless the Planning and Zoning Commission certifies to
the Board of Appeals after the notice of appeal has been filed that by reasons
of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would, in their opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board
of Appeals or by a court of record on application on notice to the Planning and
Zoning Commission and on due cause shown.
         (c)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by the
Board of Appeals and it shall render a decision on the appeal.
         (d)   Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
Board of Appeals shall render a decision on the appeal.
   (E)   Amendments.
      (1)   Authority.
         (a)   This chapter and the Zoning District Map may be amended from
time to time by resolution duly enacted by the Council; provided, however,
that, no such amendment shall be enacted, except in accordance with the
procedures of this section, and in compliance with the City Charter.
         (b)   The Zoning District Map is hereby and herewith amended as
follows:
            1.   Lots 13 and 14, College Plaza: I-2 (Heavy Industrial);
            2.   Lots 15 and 16, College Plaza: R-5 (Multi-Family Residential);
            3.   Unplatted lands, east 706 feet of the southeast quarter of the
northwest quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4) of Section 7, Township 58 North, Range 17
West, lying south of the southerly right-of-way of the Great Northern Railroad
right-of-way: I-1 (Light Industrial); and
            4.   Lots 9 and 10, Block 2, Olcott Addition: B-1 (Central Business
District).
      (2)   Initiation. Proposed changes or amendments may be initiated by the
Council, by the Planning and Zoning Commission or by any one or more owners of
real estate in the city so as to effect real estate of the owner or owners.
      (3)   Procedure.
         (a)   When any proposed change or amendment is initiated by the
Council, they shall transmit their proposal to the Planning and Zoning
Commission for a public hearing and report thereon.
         (b)   When any proposed change or amendment is initiated by an owner
or owners of real estate in the city, an application for such amendment,
addressed to the Council, shall be filed in quintuplicate with the City Clerk.
A non-refundable application fee, established from time to time by the Council
to cover administrative costs, shall accompany the application. The application
shall be in a form and contain information as shall be prescribed from time to
time by the Planning and Zoning Commission, but shall, in all instances,
contain the following information:
            1.   The applicant’s name and address;
            2.   The precise wording of any proposed amendment to the text of
this chapter; and
            3.   In the event that the proposed amendment would change the
zoning classification of any property:
               a.   A legal description and street address of the property
proposed to be reclassified;
               b.   The name and address of the owner or owners of the
property;
               c.   The present zoning classification and existing uses of the
property proposed to be reclassified;
               d.   The area of the property proposed to be reclassified,
stated in square feet or acres, or fraction thereof;
               e.   A map drawn to scale, clearly showing the property proposed
to be reclassified and its present zoning classification and existing uses.
               f.   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by
the Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance with division (H) below;
               g.   Within 30 days following the conclusion of the public
hearing, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall transmit to the Council its
recommendation in the form of a written report. The report shall be accompanied
by finding of fact specifying the reasons for the recommendation;
               h.   Within 30 days of the receipt of the report of the Planning
and Zoning Commission, the Council shall refuse, or by ordinance duly enacted,
adopt the proposed amendment; and
               i.   A certified copy of the ordinance amendment shall be filed
with the County Recorder.
   (F)   Conditional use permit.
      (1)   General. An application for a conditional use permit shall be
submitted in duplicate to the City Clerk. A non-refundable fee, as established
from time to time by the Council to cover administrative costs and costs of
hearing, shall accompany each application.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide the
city with a reasonable degree of discretion, in determining the suitability of
a certain designated use upon the general welfare, public health and safety.
      (3)   Standards for granting conditional use permit. In making this
determination, whether or not the conditional use is to be allowed, the city
shall consider:
         (a)   General. If the establishment or operation of the proposed
conditional use will be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
morals, comfort or general welfare;
         (b)   Compatibility with surrounding area. The architectural
appearance and functional plan of the building and site shall reflect the
building character of the area and shall not be so dissimilar to the existing
buildings or area as to cause impairment in property values or constitute a
blighting influence within a reasonable distance of the lot. The proposed
development shall be compatible with existing and planned use of the area and
conflicts should not be created between the proposed use and existing and
intended future uses of the surrounding area;
         (c)   Traffic control. The traffic generated by a use shall be
channelized and controlled in a manner that will avoid congestion on public
streets, safety hazards or excessive traffic generated shall not raise traffic
volumes beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets. Vehicular access points
shall be limited, shall create a minimum of conflict with through traffic
movements and shall be subject to the approval of the City Engineer. Vehicular
drive up ingress lanes shall be large enough to accommodate peak auto use on
the same lot without requiring the stopping or waiting of vehicles on public
right-of- way. Ingress lanes shall be from the least heavily traveled street
whenever possible;
         (d)   Availability and adequacy of public services. Public services
including, but not limited to, sewer, water, gas, electricity, police and fire
protection, should be available at an adequate level and capable of servicing
the proposed land use. In addition, adequate access, drainage and any other
necessary support facilities shall be provided. The Planning and Zoning
Commission and the Council may impose any necessary conditions or restrictions
upon the proposed land use to ensure that an overloading of city systems does
not occur and that inordinate demand on public services does not jeopardize or
limit existing and projected public service demands; and
         (e)   Other. All such other or further factors as the city shall deem
a requisite or consideration in determining the effect of such use on the
general welfare, public health and safety.
      (4)   Justification. The Planning and Zoning Commission may impose
conditions upon the conditional use, if, in its opinion, specific circumstances
of a request justify those additional controls to protect the health, safety
and welfare of the neighborhood and general public.
      (5)   Reconsideration. Whenever an application for a conditional use
permit has been considered and denied by the Planning and Zoning Commission and
the Council, a similar application for a conditional use permit affecting
substantially the same property shall not be considered again by the Planning
and Zoning Commission or the Council for at least six months from the date of
its denial and a subsequent application affecting substantially the same
property shall likewise not be considered again by the Planning Commission or
the Council for an additional six months from the date of the second denial
unless a decision to reconsider the matter is made by vote of the Council.
      (6)   Lapse of conditional use permit by non-use. Whenever, within one
year after granting a conditional use permit, the work has not been
substantially completed, then the permit shall become null and void unless a
petition for extension of time in which to complete the work has been granted
by the Council. The extension shall be requested in writing and filed with the
City Clerk at least 30 days before the expiration of the original conditional
use permit. There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The
request for extension shall state facts showing a good faith attempt to
complete the work permitted in the conditional use permits. The petition shall
be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission for a recommendation and to
the Council for a decision.
      (7)   Procedure.
         (a)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised and conducted by the
Planning and Zoning Commission in accordance with division (H) below.
         (b)   Within 30 days following the close of the public hearing, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall submit its recommendation to the Council
for its official action.
         (c)   The Council shall act on the application within 45 days after
receiving the recommendations of the Planning Commission.
      (8)   Performance bond.
         (a)   Except in the case of non-income producing residential property,
upon approval of a conditional use permit, the city shall be provided with a
surety bond, cash escrow, certificate of deposit, securities or cash deposit
prior to the issuing of building permits or initiation of work on the proposed
improvements or development. The security shall guarantee conformance and
compliance with the conditions of the conditional use permit and the codes of
the city.
         (b)   The security shall be in the amount of the City Engineer’s or
the Building Inspector’s estimated costs of labor and materials for the
proposed improvements or development. The project can be handled upon the
discretion of the City Engineer and Building Inspector.
         (c)   The city shall hold the security until completion of the
proposed improvements or development and a certificate of occupancy indicating
compliance with the conditional use permit and codes of the city has been
issued by the Building Inspector.
         (d)   Failure to comply with the conditions of the conditional use
permit and/or the codes of the city shall result in forfeiture of the security.
      (9)   Certified copy. A certified copy of the conditional use permit
shall be filed with the County Recorder.
   (G)   Variances.
      (1)   Authority. Except as otherwise expressly provided in division (G)
(2) below, the Planning and Zoning Commission may recommend such variances to
the Council from the provisions of this chapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest. Variances may be authorized only in those specific instances
enumerated in this division (G), and then only when the Planning and Zoning
Commission has made findings of fact as hereinafter required.
      (2)   Procedures.
         (a)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Building
Inspector. The application shall contain the following information, as well as
such additional information as may be prescribed by rules of the Planning and
Zoning Commission:
            1.   The particular requirements of this chapter which prevent the
proposed use or construction;
            2.   The characteristics of the subject property which prevent
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
            3.   The minimum reduction of the requirements of this chapter
which would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction; and
            4.   The particular hardship which would result if the particular
requirements of this chapter were applied to the subject property.
         (b)   Within 30 days, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall
recommend granting or denying the variance to the Council. The decision shall
be accompanied by findings of fact and shall refer to any exhibits containing
plans and specifications and shall remain a part of the permanent records of
the Planning and Zoning Commission. The findings of fact shall specify the
reasons for recommending, granting or denying the variance. The terms of relief
recommended shall be specifically set forth in a conclusion or statement
separate from the findings of fact. A decision rendered in accordance with the
terms of this division (N) which recommends granting a variance shall be stayed
until the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Council. During that time,
the Council shall have authority to reverse the decision of the Planning and
Zoning Commission.
(Amended 8-13-1991)
      (3)   Conditions for variance.
         (a)   A variance shall be permitted only if it is established that it
is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this chapter, and that
there are practical difficulties or particular hardships in the way of carrying
out the strict letter of the provisions of this chapter, in its consideration
of the standards of practical difficulties or particular hardship, the Planning
and Zoning Commission shall require evidence that:
            1.   The property in question cannot be put to reasonable use if
used under the conditions allowed by the regulations governing the district in
which it is located;
            2.   The plight of the owner is due to unique circumstances not
applicable to adjacent land holdings within the same district; and
            3.   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential
character of the locality.
         (b)   A variance may be granted only if the evidence, in the judgment
of the Planning and Zoning Commission, sustains each of the three conditions,
enumerated in division (G)(3)(a) above, or if the Planning and Zoning
Commission finds that a variance would be the means of achieving energy
efficiency in new and existing construction, including earth sheltering
techniques or solar energy systems, such a variance may be granted
notwithstanding the provisions of division (G)(3)(a) above. Economic
considerations alone shall not constitute an undue hardship if reasonable use
exists under the terms of this chapter.
         (c)   Variance from the provisions of this chapter shall be
recommended by the Planning and Zoning Commission only in accordance with the
provisions of divisions (G)(3)(a) and (G)(3)(b) above, and may be recommended
only in the following instances, and in no others:
            1.   To vary the applicable lot area, lot width and lot depth
requirements; provided, however, that, the minimum lot area per dwelling unit
requirements for multiple-family dwellings shall not be varied so as to permit
more than one dwelling unit in addition to the number that would be permitted
by strict application of the minimum lot area requirements;
            2.   To vary the applicable bulk regulations, including maximum
height, lot coverage and floor area ratio, and minimum yard requirements;
            3.   To vary the applicable off-street loading requirements;
            4.   To vary the regulations relating to restoration of damaged or
destroyed non- conforming structures; and
            5.   To vary the applicable off-street parking requirements.
         (d)   Specific conditions and safeguards may be imposed upon the
premises benefitted by a variance as considered necessary to prevent injurious
effects upon other property in the neighborhood or upon public facilities and
services. Violations of such conditions and safeguards shall be a violation of
this chapter.
         (e)   No variance permitting the erection or alteration of a building
shall be valid for a period longer than six months, unless a building permit
for the erection or alteration is issued and construction is actually begun
within that period and is thereafter diligently pursued to completion. The
applicant may petition the Planning and Zoning Commission for extension of time
in which to complete the work. The extensions shall be requested in writing and
filed with the City Clerk at least 30 days before the expiration of the
original variance. There shall be no charge for the filing of the petition. The
petition shall be presented to the Planning and Zoning Commission for a
recommendation and to the Council for a decision. The extension shall be valid
for an additional six months.
      (4)   Certified copy. A certified copy of the variance shall be filed
with the County Recorder.
   (H)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Setting of hearing. For all requests brought before the Planning
and Zoning Commission for which a public hearing is required by this chapter,
the body in charge of conducting the hearing shall select a reasonable time and
place for the public hearing on the request. It may direct the City Clerk to
schedule hearings at the next Planning and Zoning Commission meeting if an
application is received at least 15 days before the regular meeting.
      (2)   Notice of hearing.
         (a)   Notice of public hearings shall be given not more than 30 days
and not less than ten days before the hearing by publication at least once in
the official newspaper of the city. The notice shall include the time and place
of the hearing, a description of the contents of the request to be heard, and
the address or location of the property to which the request applies.
         (b)   In addition to the general notice to the public, separate notice
by letter, ten days before the hearing, shall be required for all property
owners residing within 350 feet of the area, where a request concerning
property will be the subject of the hearing. The notices shall be sent by the
City Clerk and addresses taken from current city records shall be deemed
sufficient for the notification.
(Adopted 3-14-1989)
      (3)   Conduct of hearing. Any person may appear and testify at a public
hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney.
   (I)   Administrative fees.
      (1)   To defray administrative costs of processing of requests for
conditional uses’ amendments, variances or appeals, a base fee of $50 per
application shall be paid by all applicants.
      (2)   In order to defray the additional cost of processing applications
(amendments, conditional uses, variances, appeals) for developments, all
applicants shall pay the total cost of staff and/or consulting time spent
exclusively in producing materials for the applicant’s request, and all
materials for the request.
         (a)   “Materials” shall include, but not be limited to, maps, graphs,
charts, drawings and the like and all printing or reproduction of materials.
         (b)   “Staff and/or consulting time” shall include any time spent in
either researching for or actual production of materials.
         (c)   Fees shall be payable at the time applications are filed with
the City Clerk and are not refundable. No application for zoning or subdivision
action or other city permit shall be granted or approved until all fee
statement balances are paid in full.
   (J)   Permit required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to erect, alter, wreck or move any
building and/or sign or part thereof without first securing a building permit
where the cost thereof is more than $500. Hereafter, no permit is valid when:
         (a)   The permit exceeds six months;
         (b)   A neighbor who signs a variance moves prior to fulfillment of
permit;
         (c)   The building is sold before fulfillment of permit; or
         (d)   Charter changes.
      (2)   Application for a building permit shall be made to the City
Engineer. Applications for any kind of building permit, special use permit, or
any other kind of application shall contain information as may be deemed
necessary for the proper enforcement of the city code.
(Amended 11-8-1992) (Ord. 130, effective 3-1-1988)
   (K)   Permit fees.
      (1)   The fee for such permit shall be equivalent to one-half mill
(.0005) of the valuation of the structure, addition or alteration when equal to
or less than $15,000; where the valuation is greater than $15,000, the fee
shall be determined as set forth within, the most current and adopted edition
of the Uniform Building Code building permit fee schedule. There shall be a
minimum fee in the amount of $15. The building permit shall be issued only
after it is determined that the building plans, together with the application,
comply with the terms of this chapter of the city code.
      (2)   In the event that a building permit is desired for a use not
specifically provided for or the conditions governing its construction and use
cannot be clearly ascertained from the provisions of this chapter or the intent
of this chapter is not clear in its application to a particular building or
use, the application shall be referred to the Planning and Zoning Commission
which shall determine whether the permit shall be granted or denied.
      (3)   Plan review fees, inspection fees and other fees shall be charged
and collected as determined by the most current and adopted edition of the
Uniform Building Code.
(Amended 7-15-1991)
§ 11.51 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEDICATED PARK AREA.
   (A)   This section is adopted for the purpose of dedicating the area known
as Southside Park, which includes Pepelnjak Park, the existing park building,
tennis courts, playground equipment and three softball fields.
   (B)   The area to be dedicated is located in a portion of Section 17,
Township 58, Range 17, which includes all areas west of the D.M. & I.R.
Railroad right-of-way, east of Sixth Avenue, north of Highway 53, south of the
existing park and south of Anderson’s Third Addition.
   (C)   There shall be a 66-foot exclusion from the dedicated area on the
southern border for purposes of allowing the city to place a frontage road.
   (D)   The exact boundaries and legal description of this dedicated park area
shall be subject to a survey which shall become a part of this chapter.
(Adopted 3-8-1994)
§§ 11.52 THROUGH 11.59 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 11.60 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This section is adopted for the purposes of:
      (1)   Recognizing the economic and cultural advantages that will accrue
to the residents of a planned community;
      (2)   Providing an optional procedure for an area where designation of a
single use zoning district and/or application of standard zoning requirements
may be too rigid for practical application; and
      (3)   Encouraging the use of contemporary land planning principles and
coordinated community design.
   (B)   Definitions. The language set forth in the text of this section shall
be interpreted in accordance with the following.
      (1)   This section shall have no effect upon other developments or
district requirements as set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   The minimum area required for a planned unit development shall be
one acre.
      (3)   Planned unit developments shall be excluded from requirements of
this chapter and specifically approved as a PUD. The exclusions shall only be
granted for the purpose of creating better overall design and an improved
living environment and not solely for the economic advantage of the developer.
      (4)   The granting of a PUD permit does not alter in any manner the
existing zoning district classification; except that, building permits shall
not be issued which are not in conformity with the approved PUD permit unless
it is amended, cancelled or modified by other provisions of this section.
      (5)   Wherever a question arises concerning the interpretation of any
provision of this section, it shall be the duty of the Planning Commission and
the City Attorney to ascertain all facts and forward a recommendation to the
Council for a determination.
   (C)   Procedure. The procedures for obtaining approval of the preliminary
development plan of a PUD shall be as follows.
      (1)   Preliminary discussion. Prior to filing a petition, any person may
request a meeting with the Planning Commission or City Engineer to discuss the
feasibility of a PUD.
      (2)   Petition. The petition for a PUD shall be on a form provided by the
city and shall include all of the following information:
         (a)   Signature(s) of owner(s) and developer(s);
         (b)   All data normally required by the city for a rezoning
application; and
         (c)   All information and plans comprising a “preliminary development
plan”, as described herein.
      (3)   Processing of petition. The petition for a “preliminary development
plan” of a PUD shall be processed by the city in the same manner in which
rezoning petitions are processed as described in this chapter.
      (4)   Fees. The fee for a PUD shall be the same as the fee charged for a
rezoning.
   (D)   Preliminary development plan. The preliminary development plan of a
PUD shall include the following information:
      (1)   An overall plan indicating the proposed use of all areas of the
site, including the density, type and number of stories of all dwelling units,
size and use of proposed commercial areas, recreation areas, walkway locations,
public streets and similar features;
      (2)   A staging plan indicating the proposed sequence and timing of
development of all areas of the site. This shall include number of dwelling
units, commercial structures, public streets, utilities and recreation areas;
and
      (3)   A detailed plan of first phase development indicating buildings,
parking areas, driveways and similar detail, on a site plan and including
architectural elevation drawings of all buildings.
   (E)   Final development plan.
      (1)   The “final development plan” may be approved in phases along with
the progression of development. The final development plan shall be reviewed by
the Planning Commission with final determination by the Council. A public
hearing shall not be required provided the Final Development plan is in
substantial conformance with the preliminary plan. Any major change as
determined by the Council shall require a public hearing.
      (2)   The final development plan for any phase of development shall
include the following:
         (a)   A final plat, if required, adopted in accordance with this
chapter;
         (b)   A final site plan showing all structures, parking areas,
driveways, recreational improvements, walkways and similar detail on a scaled
and dimensioned drawing;
         (c)   A landscape plan showing the location, species and size of all
plant materials. Landscape information shall be located on a grading plan;
         (d)   A utility plan showing the location and size of all utilities
and easements. The utility plan shall include sanitary sewer, water, storm
sewer and drainage, electricity and gas. Note: may be omitted if plat is
required for PUD;
         (e)   Building plans shall be submitted in detail and in accordance
with the state’s Building Code; and
         (f)   Covenants, agreements or contracts governing the use or
maintenance of the development shall be filed with the city. Where the
information is lacking, the city may require a bond or similar guarantee to
ensure that areas held common by persons residing in the development will be
developed and maintained.
   (F)   General provisions.
      (1)   Residential unit densities shall be determined as a part of the
approval of the PUD. Final determination on density shall be made when the
final development plan for each phase is approved, in determining densities,
the city shall be guided by the city’s Comprehensive Plan, this chapter, the
proposed PUD, the zoning of the property and adjoining area and similar
planning information.
      (2)   Site coverage of all buildings on a PUD site shall not exceed 30%
of the net land area (site area excluding public street).
      (3)   Uses approved and permitted under a PUD shall only include uses
permitted in residential districts in the city and those commercial uses
specifically approved as a part of the approval of a PUD.
      (4)   Upon approval of a preliminary development plan, a PUD may not be
altered, revised or withdrawn without the approval of the Council. The approval
shall have the same effect as the zoning of the property.
      (5)   All approved preliminary development plans shall be so designated
on the zoning map as it is revised from time to time. The map shall be related
by number or other means to an approved preliminary or final development plan
of a PUD on file with the city. The plans shall be available for the general
public to review.
      (6)   Enforcement of the provisions of this section shall be the same as
for other provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 111, effective 6-8-1976)
§ 11.61 MORATORIUM ON THE ISSUANCE OF THE SALE, PRODUCTION, PROCESSING, OR
CULTIVATION OF CANNABIS PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes a moratorium on the issuance of
sale, production, cultivation, and/or processing permits related to cannabis in
response to changes in that state law that would provide for preapproval of
permitting based solely upon the existing zoning laws which did not contemplate
the legalization of the cannabis industry within the State of Minnesota.
   (B)   Restrictions. For a period of one year from July 15, 2024, cannabis
production, cultivation, processing and sales shall be prohibited uses in each
existing zoning classification. During this one-year period, the city shall
develop appropriate zoning regulations to allow permissible cannabis activity
with restrictions appropriate to adequately protect the community standards of
the City of Virginia.
   (C)   Existing activities. The city is aware that there are certain sales
being made of hemp-derived THC edibles. Those businesses that are currently
lawfully engaged in such activities may continue their activities as they
currently exist, but may not expand such sales or operations. Each such
business shall submit to the city such proof as may be requested to verify the
existence and scope of such operations predating the effective date of this
section.
   (D)   Sunset. This section shall sunset and be of no further effect upon the
passage and effective date of the implementation of the zoning provisions
contemplated by divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. passed 6-25-2024)
§§ 11.62 THROUGH 11.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 11.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
CHAPTER 12: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS (PLATTING)
Section
   
12.01   General provisions
   
12.02   Definitions
   
12.03   Determination of streets
   12.04 through 12.09   Reserved for future expansion
   
12.10   Preliminary plan
   12.11 through 12.19   Reserved for future expansion
   
12.20   Final plat
   12.21 through 12.29   Reserved for future expansion
   
12.30   Design standards
   12.31 through 12.39   Reserved for future expansion
   
12.40   Public land
   
12.41   Required improvements
   12.42 through 12.49   Reserved for future expansion
   
12.50   Other provisions
   
12.51   Engineering standards and specifications
   
12.52   Amendments
   12.53 through 12.98   Reserved for future expansion
   
12.99   Violation a misdemeanor
§ 12.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be the minimum requirements adopted for the
protection of the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   Scope. Except in the case of resubdivision, this chapter shall not
apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Recorder prior to the effective date of this chapter. Nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or
interfere with existing provisions of other laws or city code provisions,
except those specifically repealed by, or in conflict with this chapter, or
with private restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant or other
private agreement, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to which
the city is a party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon land
than is imposed or required by the existing provisions of law, city code
provision, contract or deed, the provisions of this chapter shall control.
§ 12.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY PLANS. A set of maps, documents and data on file with the Planning
Commission; the maps, documents and data commonly known as the “Comprehensive
City Plan.”
   COLLECTOR STREET. A street that carries traffic from minor streets to
thoroughfares. It includes the principal entrance streets of a residential
development and principal streets for circulation within the development.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street with only one outlet.
   EASEMENT. A grant by an owner of land for the specific use of the land by
the public generally, or to a person or persons.
   FINAL PLAT. The final map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider's plan
of subdivision is presented to the Council for approval and which, if approved,
will be submitted to the County Recorder.
   LOT. A parcel of land in a subdivision or plat of land, separated from other
parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision or by metes and bounds,
for the purpose of sale or lease or separate use thereof.
   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A service drive or minor street that is parallel and
adjacent to a thoroughfare and which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
the abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood.
   OWNER. Any person having sufficient proprietary interest in the land sought
to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to subdivide the same
under this chapter.
   PRELIMINARY PLAN. The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision.
   SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL ADMINISTRATION. The Minnesota Department of
Transportation program requirements and competitive process for financial
assistance following M.S. § 174.40, as may be amended from time to time,
establishing criteria to evaluate capital improvements of transportation
infrastructure that improves safety and encourages non-motorized transportation
to and from a school.
   SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL INFRASTRUCTURE. A safe and appealing non-motorized
means of transportation to and from a school consistent with the Safe Routes to
School Program and the Safe Routes to School Administration criteria and
guidelines.
   SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM. A federal program under Title I, Section 1404
of Safe, Accountable, Flexible, Efficient Transportation Equity Act: A Legacy
for Users (SAFETEA-LU) OF  2005, Public Law 109-59 and adopted by the State of
Minnesota in M.S. § 174.40, as may be amended from time to time.
   SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL PROGRAM FUNDING. A State of Minnesota account
consisting of state bond proceeds and other funds as appropriated to be
expended on eligible costs of a Safe Routes to School Program project receiving
financial assistance. Assistance may be offered for acquisition of land or
permanent easements, predesign, design, preliminary and final engineering,
environmental analysis, construction and reconstruction of publicly owned
infrastructure with a useful life of at least ten years that provides for non-
motorized to and from a school; preparation of land for which a route to school
is established, including demolition of structures and remediation of any
hazardous conditions on the land; payment for the unpaid principal on debt
issued by a political subdivision for a Safe Route to School project; and for
any other eligible activity described in M.S. § 174.40, as may be amended from
time to time.
   STREET. A way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, lane, place or
however otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to effect a
subdivision of land hereunder for himself, herself or for another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development. The
term includes resubdivision and, when appropriate to the context, shall relate
to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   THOROUGHFARE. A fast or heavy traffic street of considerable continuity and
used primarily as a traffic artery for intercommunication among large areas.
(Ord. passed 2-27-2024)
§ 12.03 DETERMINATION OF STREETS.
   The Council, upon advice from the Planning Commission, shall determine which
streets are minor, collector, marginal access or thoroughfares.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
§§ 12.04 THROUGH 12.09 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 12.10 PRELIMINARY PLAN.
   (A)   Procedure for preliminary plan.
      (1)   Prior to preparation of a preliminary plan, it is suggested that
the subdivider meet with the Planning Commission and the City Engineer
regarding city plans for thoroughfares, parks, utilities and the like in which
the area to be subdivided is located.
      (2)   The subdivider shall have a preliminary plan prepared on the basis
of such city plans and of the design standards and data required by this
chapter.
      (3)   The subdivider shall submit to the City Clerk:
         (a)   Six copies of the preliminary plan;
         (b)   A cash fee of $25, plus $1 for each lot up to a maximum total of
$100. This fee shall be used for the expenses of the city in connection with
approval or disapproval of the preliminary plan; and
         (c)   Application for approval of a plat, made in writing by the owner
or his or her authorized agent. The application shall specify the location and
size of the tract to be platted, the intent as to the character, type and use
of the subdivided property, the deed restrictions and mineral rights proposed
and the extent and character of improvements to be made by the subdivider.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall, upon receipt of the preliminary plan:
         (a)   Ascertain whether the preliminary plan includes the data as
required by this chapter;
         (b)   Set a public hearing on the preliminary plan, the hearing to be
held at the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission, but not earlier
than ten days after submission of the preliminary plan. Notice of the hearing
shall be published in the official city newspaper at least five days prior to
the hearing. The subdivider shall certify that owners of unsubdivided property
adjacent to the area being subdivided have been notified of the hearing by
mail; and
         (c)   Refer the written application and one copy of the preliminary
plan to the Planning Commission and one copy each to the City Engineer, the
School District Superintendent and the Public Utilities Commission.
      (5)   The City Engineer shall submit his or her report to the Planning
Commission on or before the hearing on the preliminary plan. This report shall
be on the feasibility of street location and construction and on any drainage
or other problems that might be encountered.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall study the preliminary plan. The
primary function of the Planning Commission in reviewing a preliminary plan is
to determine whether the plan conforms to the design standards set forth in
this chapter and conforms to other city plans. The Planning Commission may
recommend approval of a preliminary plan subject to certain revisions and may
delegate its staff or one of its members to see that the further revisions
conform to the intent of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
conduct the hearing on the preliminary plan and shall make its report to the
Council within five days after the second regular meeting of the Planning
Commission following referral by the City Clerk.
      (7)   The Council shall act on the preliminary plan within 60 days of the
date on which it was filed with the City Clerk. If the report of the Planning
Commission has not been received in time to meet this requirement, the Council
may act without the report. Approval of a preliminary plan by the Council is
tentative only, involving merely the general acceptability of the layout.
Subsequent approval will be required of the engineering proposals, pertaining
to water supply, storm drainage, sewerage and sewage disposal, gas and electric
service, grading, gradients and roadway widths and the surfacing of streets.
      (8)   If the preliminary plan is not approved by the Council, the reasons
for the action shall be recorded in the proceedings of the Council and
transmitted to the applicant. The Council may require the revisions in the
preliminary plan and final plat as it deems necessary for the health, safety,
general welfare and convenience of the city.
   (B)   Data required for preliminary plan.
      (1)   Scale. One inch to 100 feet, if possible; otherwise, one inch to 50
feet;
      (2)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate or
be alike in pronunciation of the name of any plat heretofore recorded in the
county;
         (b)   Location by section, town, range or by other legal description;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and
designer of the plan. The subdivider shall submit a statement that he or she
has the area being subdivided under ownership or control;
         (d)   Graphic scale;
         (e)   North point; and
         (f)   Date of preparation.
      (3)   Existing conditions in tract and in surrounding area to a distance
of 100 feet.
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly indicated;
         (b)   Any non-residential zoning districts;
         (c)   Total approximate acreage;
         (d)   Platted streets, railroad right-of-way and utility easements;
         (e)   Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining unsubdivided land;
         (f)   Permanent buildings, structures and ownership lines;
         (g)   Sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities;
         (h)   Topography, showing lakes, watercourses, marsh areas and
contours at vertical intervals of not more than two feet. Where contour lines
are more than 100 feet apart, spot elevations must be shown on streets and
sewers to delineate drainage patterns;
         (i)   Wooded areas; and
         (j)   Other information, such as soil tests, if requested by Engineer.
      (4)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths and
names of streets. The name of any street heretofore used in the city or its
environs shall not be used, unless the proposed street is an extension of an
already named street, in which event the name shall be used. The street layout
shall include all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider;
         (b)   Location and widths of proposed pedestrian ways and utility
easements;
         (c)   Layout, numbers and minimum dimensions of lots;
         (d)   Areas, other than streets, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of the area or areas in acres;
         (e)   Proposed use of all parcels, and if zoning change is
contemplated, proposed rezoning;
         (f)   Minimum front and side street building setback lines, indicating
dimensions; and
         (g)   Whenever a portion of a tract is proposed for platting and it is
intended or large enough for future enlargement of the platted portion from
time to time, a tentative plan for the future subdivision of the entire tract
shall be submitted to the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
§§ 12.11 THROUGH 12.19 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 12.20 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Procedure for final plat.
      (1)   Unless an extension of time is requested by the subdivider and
granted by the Council, the subdivider shall within six months following
approval of the preliminary plan, submit to the City Clerk:
         (a)   Eight copies of the final plat. This final plat shall
incorporate all changes required by the Council. Otherwise, it shall conform to
the preliminary plan. The final plat may constitute only that portion of the
preliminary plan which the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the
time. If the final plat is not submitted within six months, the approval of the
preliminary plan shall be considered void; and
         (b)   An up-to-date certified abstract of title or registered property
report and other evidence as the City Attorney may require showing title or
control in the applicant.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall refer one copy of the final plat to the City
Engineer and one copy each to the telephone company, Public Utilities
Commission and the Planning Commission. The Clerk shall refer the abstract of
title or registered property report to the City Attorney for his or her
examination and report.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation concerning the
final plat not later than at its regular meeting after the meeting at which the
final plat is initially considered and not later than 45 days after the initial
consideration. The reports of the City Attorney and City Engineer shall be
submitted to the Council within 30 days after filing of the final plat. The
City Engineer shall state whether the final plat and the proposed improvements
conform to the engineering standards and specifications established in this
chapter; he or she shall also state whether the final plat conforms to the
preliminary plan.
      (4)   The Council shall act on the final plat within 60 days of the date
on which it was filed with the City Clerk. No final plat shall be approved
that:
         (a)   Does not conform to the preliminary plan; and/or
         (b)   Does not meet the design standards and engineering
specifications set forth in this chapter or as required by the Council.
      (5)   If the final plat is approved by the Council, the subdivider shall
record it with the County Recorder within 90 days after the date of approval;
otherwise, the approval shall be considered void.
      (6)   The subdivider shall, immediately upon recording, furnish the City
Clerk with two prints of the final plat showing evidence of the recording.
   (B)   Data required for final flat.
      (1)   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal, drainage and flood
control;
      (2)   Soil borings and samples of subsoil materials as required by the
City Engineer. If private sewage disposal systems are proposed, soil borings
shall be taken as follows: there shall be a minimum of one boring per five
lots. If requested by the City Engineer, soil soundings are required along
centerline of all streets at intervals of 50 feet and to a depth of the invert
elevation of the sanitary sewer or a depth of eight feet below finished street
grade, except when ledge rock is encountered. Where ledge rock is encountered,
trace out rock outlines. Depending on the area developed, the interval of
soundings shall be changed at the discretion of the City Engineer. Location,
depth and material encountered in soundings shall be shown on street and sewer
and water profiles. If necessary, the City Engineer can request samples of
subsoil materials;
      (3)   Plan for solving ground water problems;
      (4)   Any supplementary engineering data required by the City Engineer;
      (5)   Data required under regulation of County Surveyor: accurate angular
and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curvatures used to describe
boundaries, streets, easements, areas to be reserved for public use, and other
important features. Dimensions of lot lines shall be shown in feet and
hundredths;
      (6)   When lots are located on a curve or when side lot lines are at
angles other than 90 degrees, the width of the building setback line shall be
shown;
      (7)   An identification system for all lots and blocks;
      (8)   The size (in square feet) and dimensions of all lots;
      (9)   True angles and distances tied to the nearest established street
lines or official monuments (not less than three) which shall be accurately
described in the plat;
      (10)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to
the lines of the subdivision by distances and angles;
      (11)   Complete curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and
curvatures, tangent bearings and lengths of all arcs;
      (12)   Accurate location of all monuments;
      (13)   Certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect that the
plat represents a survey made by him or her and that monuments and markers
shown thereon exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic details
are correct;
      (14)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas in the form approved by the City Attorney;
      (15)   Certifications showing that all taxes currently due on the
property to be subdivided have been paid in full; and
      (16)   Form for approval: “Approved by the City of Virginia, this      
day of            , 20     ”.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
§§ 12.21 THROUGH 12.29 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 12.30 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   General design. The design of all streets shall be considered in
their relation to: public safety, existing and planned streets, efficient
circulation of traffic; topographical conditions, run-off of storm water; and
proposed uses of the land to be served by the streets. The arrangement of
streets in new subdivision shall make provisions for the appropriate
continuation of existing streets in adjoining areas. Where adjoining areas are
not subdivided, the arrangement of streets in new subdivisions shall make
provision for the proper projection of streets. When a new subdivision adjoins
unsubdivided land susceptible to being divided, then the new streets shall be
carried to the boundaries of the unsubdivided land.
      (2)   Width. All right-of-way widths shall conform to the following
minimum dimensions:
 
Collector streets      70 feet
Cul-de-sacs            66 feet
Marginal access street 66 feet
Minor streets          66 feet
Thoroughfares          80 feet
 
      (3)   Reverse curves. Tangents of at least 50 feet in length shall be
introduced between reverse curves on collector streets.
      (4)   Street grades. All centerline gradients shall be at least 0.5% and
shall not exceed the following:
 
Collector streets 4%
Minor streets     10%
 
      (5)   Minor streets. Minor streets shall be so aligned that their use by
through traffic will be discouraged.
      (6)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125
feet shall be avoided.
      (7)   Safe intersections. It must be evidenced that all street
intersections and confluences encourage safe and efficient traffic flow. As far
as practicable, horizontal and vertical curves shall not occur together.
      (8)   Alleys. Alleys are not permitted in residential areas. Alleys where
provided shall not be less than 30 feet in width.
      (9)   Cul-de-sacs. Maximum length cul-de-sac streets shall be 500 feet
measured along the centerline from the intersection of origin to end of right-
of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at the closed end with a turn-around
having an outside roadway diameter of at least 100 feet and a street property
line diameter at least 120 feet.
      (10)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision and adjoining
unsubdivided areas.
      (11)   Reserve strips. Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
be prohibited, except under conditions approved by the Council.
      (12)   Private streets. Private streets shall not be approved, nor shall
public improvements be approved, for any previously existing private street.
      (13)   Hardship to owners of adjoining property. The street arrangements
shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in
platting their own land providing convenient access to it.
      (14)   Street interval. In general, provisions shall be made at intervals
not exceeding one-half mile for through streets (streets running through the
subdivision in a fairly direct manner).
      (15)   Intersections. In general, streets shall intersect at right
angles. Angles less than 70 degrees shall be avoided.
      (16)   Corners. Property lines at residential street corners shall be
rounded on a radius of not less than ten feet and curb lines on a radius of not
less than 12 feet, although greater radii may be required where deemed
necessary by the Council.
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Utilities. Easements at least ten feet wide, centered on rear and
other lot lines, shall be provided for utilities, where necessary. They shall
have continuity of alignment from block to block. At deflection points,
easements for pole-line anchors shall be provided where necessary. Utilities
shall be placed along rear lot lines where possible.
      (2)   Drainage. Where a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of such
watercourse, together with such further width or construction or both, as will
be adequate for storm water run-off. The easement shall include not only the
stream channel, but also adjoining areas that have been subject to flooding in
years of heavy run-off.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,500 feet and, if possible,
should not be less than 400 feet in length. In commercial and industrial areas,
the block lengths and widths shall be platted as may be determined to be most
suitable for the kind of occupancy intended.
      (2)   Arrangement. A block shall be so designed as to provide two tiers
of lots, unless it adjoins a railroad, limited access highway or subdivision
limit, and unless topographic conditions necessitate a single tier of lots.
      (3)   Pedestrian ways. In blocks over 1,200 feet long, a pedestrian way
or easement may be required in locations deemed necessary to public health,
convenience and necessity. Such an easement shall not be less than ten feet in
width.
   (D)   Lots.
      (1)   Location. All lots shall abut by their full frontage on a publicly
dedicated street.
      (2)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least 15 feet wider
than the minimum lot size required.
      (3)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be substantially at right
angles or radial to the street line.
      (4)   Watercourses. Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way,
channel or stream shall have an additional depth or width, as required, to
assure house sites that are not subject to flooding.
      (5)   Features. In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or
similar conditions, which if preserved will add attractiveness and stability to
the proposed development.
      (6)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below minimum size left over
after subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels. However, outlots may be used if there is
a reasonable likelihood that future subdivision of adjoining land will absorb
these outlots into standard lots.
      (7)   Lots along thoroughfares. There shall be no direct vehicular access
from residential lots to a major thoroughfare, and residential lots shall be
separated from major thoroughfares and railroad rights-of-way by a 25-foot
buffer strip, which may be in the form of added depth or width of lots backing
on or siding on the thoroughfare or railroad right-of-way. A screen planting
easement shall be granted to the city for the 25-foot buffer strip, if it
adjoins a major thoroughfare.
      (8)   Size. Minimum lot size shall be as approved by the Council unless
specifically controlled by the zoning chapter, no lot shall have less area or
width than is required by the zoning regulations applying to the area in which
it is located.
      (9)   Avoidance. Through lots or double-frontage lots shall be avoided.
   (E)   General. The proposed subdivision shall, in all respects, conform to
the city plans, as approved by the Planning Commission and the Council.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
§§ 12.31 THROUGH 12.39 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 12.40 PUBLIC LAND.
   Because a new subdivision creates a need for recreation areas, as well as
for streets, the Council may require the dedication of a part of the
subdivision for recreation or school area. The dedication need not exceed 8% of
the total area of the subdivision plat. In addition, wherever the city plan
shows a proposed public site larger than the area to be dedicated, the
preliminary plan and final plat shall show the projected site and the city
shall have one year in which to purchase the additional area. If the purchase
has not been made within the year, the subdivider may proceed to subdivide the
additional area.
§ 12.41 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   Before the Council approves a final plat, the subdivider shall give
satisfactory assurance of the installation of the following improvements.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shown on the
final plat and as required by the City Engineer. Pipes or steel rods shall be
placed at the corners of each lot and at each intersection of street
centerlines. All U.S., state, county or other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position.
   (B)   Streets. All the streets shall be improved in accordance with the
engineering specifications established by the city. The full right-of-way of
all streets shall be graded. All streets shall be improved with a concrete
surface or equivalent. The subdivider is required to sod all boulevards.
   (C)   Curb and gutter. These shall be provided as approved by the City
Engineer along all streets.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed in pedestrian ways, along one
side of collector streets and along both sides of thoroughfares.
   (E)   Water mains. Where connection with the municipal water system is
feasible, the public water facilities shall be used.
   (F)   Sanitary sewer. To all cases where trunk line sanitary sewer
facilities are available, the subdivider shall be required to install sanitary
sewers and connect the same to the trunk line sewers. If the facilities are not
available, but will become available within a reasonable time, the sewers,
together with all necessary laterals extending from the main sewer to the
street curb, shall be installed and capped. In such event, the subdivider may
also install on-site disposal units; provided, they are so located as to permit
easy and the least expensive connection to the sewer when it becomes usable.
Where the on-site units are installed, the builder shall provide underground
plumbing to extend five feet beyond the footing and plugged. The area around
the stack shall be scored so that the septic tank line can be disconnected and
connection can be made with the city’s sanitary sewer system.
   (G)   Drainage facilities. The facilities and easements shall be installed
as will adequately provide for the drainage of surface waters.
   (H)   Trunk facilities. Where a water main, sanitary sewer or storm drain
facility should, according to utility plans, be constructed at a larger size to
serve areas outside the subdivision, the larger facility should be constructed,
the additional cost to be borne by the city and pro-rated against a future
subdivider who will benefit at the Council’s discretion.
   (I)   Specifications. All of the required improvements shall conform to
engineering standards and specifications as required by the City Engineer and
this chapter.
   (J)   Financing. Before a final plat is approved by the Council, the
subdivider shall submit an agreement and performance bond or cash escrow
agreement to assure the following:
      (1)   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all improvements required
in the subdivision and the subdivision’s share of costs of trunk facilities to
be extended to the subdivision;
      (2)   Guaranteed completion of the required improvements within a two-
year period;
      (3)   Payment by the subdivider for all costs incurred by the city for
review and inspection. This would include preparation and review of plans and
specifications by the City Engineer, costs incurred by the City Attorney, as
well as other costs of a similar nature. This payment would be in addition to
the subdivision fee paid with the submission of the preliminary plan;
      (4)   The city may elect to install any of the required improvements
under the terms of a cash escrow agreement;
      (5)   The performance bond or cash escrow agreement shall be equal to one
and one-half times the City Engineer’s estimated cost of the required
improvements; and
      (6)   If the required improvements are not completed within the two-year
period, all amounts held under the escrow agreement or performance bond shall
be turned over and delivered to the city and applied to the cost of the
required improvements. Any balance remaining after the improvements have been
made shall be returned to the owner or subdivider.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
§§ 12.42 THROUGH 12.49 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 12.50 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Variances and exceptions. Where there are practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships in the way of carrying out the strict letter of the
provisions of this chapter, the Council, upon consultation with the Planning
Commission, shall have the power to vary the requirements of this chapter in
harmony with the general purpose and intent thereof, so that the public health,
safety and general welfare may be secured and substantial justice done. In
particular, small subdivisions (where one lot is divided into two or three
lots, the submission of topographic maps, soil tests, other data and fee) may
not be necessary if the Council, after consultation with the Planning
Commission, so determines. Minor subdivision of larger areas (where a tract of
land over five acres is divided into two parcels) shall be exempted from all
the provisions of this chapter. However, a dimensioned map of such a
subdivision shall be filed with the City Clerk within 30 days after the
subdivision has been made.
   (B)   Building permits. No building permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any building, structure or improvement on any
land henceforth subdivided until all requirements of this chapter have been
fully complied with.
   (C)   Division of land and land development. The provisions of this chapter
shall apply to all methods of land division including the sale of land by metes
and bounds description and registered land surveys. When land parcels are
divided by any means to create two or more smaller parcels for the purpose of
constructing any building, structure or improvement on any such parcel, the
provisions of this chapter shall have been fully complied with prior to
issuance of a building permit.
   (D)   Safe Routes to School applicability. Any subdivision development
authorized by the city on or after February 27, 2024, shall consider and
incorporate Safe Routes to School infrastructure, where applicable.
(Ord. passed 2-27-2024)
§ 12.51 ENGINEERING STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Conformity to all engineering standards and specifications as described
herein shall be required prior to approval of a final plat. At the Council’s
discretion and after consultation with the City Engineer and the Planning
Commission, the engineering standards and specifications may be added to,
altered or otherwise changed where there are practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships in the way of strict compliance with the requirements. In
the interest of the public health, safety, general welfare and convenience, the
Council may change or add to these standards and specifications.
   (A)   Monuments. All lot corner pipes or steel rods shall be one-half inch
in diameter placed flush with the finished lot grade. All quarter corners,
sixteenth corners and section corners if encountered within or adjoining a plat
shall be duly described and tied and placed in a five-foot deep by six-inch
round concrete monument.
   (B)   Street grading. The grades after approval by the City Engineer shall
be graded to full right-of-way width with a six-inch curb, one-half foot rise
above the curb to the property line and a slope of three to one from the
property line to natural ground. A sub-base and base for road or plant mix
surfacing shall be established for a seven-ton minimum load which is equal to a
ten-inch base.
   (C)   Street surfacing. A surfaced road shall be required for all streets
and alleys. The width of the surfaced street shall be determined by the City
Engineer and be in conformity with the city’s Major Street Plan. A hot plant
mix specification as prescribed by the City Engineer and approved by the
Council shall be required. The road mix base shall be a minimum of one inch and
the leveling and wearing courses shall be a minimum of one and one-half inches
each.
   (D)   Curb and gutter. Integral concrete curb and gutter with a six-inch
curb and 24-inch gutter, six inches thick, shall be required. Intersection
radius of curb shall be varied to street curb width.
   (E)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways. Concrete sidewalks shall be five feet
wide and four inches thick placed on a four-inch gravel base. All pedestrian
ways shall be concrete the full width and shall conform to sidewalk
requirements. Sidewalk grades shall coincide with street grades and slope one-
fourth inch per foot from property line. Sidewalks shall be placed in the
street right-of-way at the property line.
   (F)   Water main. A minimum water main of six-inch cast iron pipe or
approved equal shall be required wherever feasible. Mains in size over six
inches shall be installed as indicated on the city’s utility plans. Community
water shall be permitted if at no expense to the city; provided that, the
system is approved by the Council.
   (G)   Sanitary sewer. A sanitary sewer of eight-inch vitrified clay pipe or
approved equal shall be required as minimum size placed at not less than 0.3%
grade, except for a dead end section where a 0.4% minimum grade shall be
required. House service wyes shall be four inches. Root repellent joint
material and yarns are required. Double wyes are not permitted. All sewers must
be inspected by a City Inspector before backfill is displaced.
   (H)   House services. Each house service shall be run from the main to the
property line where a cap or plug shall be placed until the service is extended
to the house. A three-fourths inch copper water service, corporation cock and
curb box and stop and four-inch extra heavy cast iron soil pipe sewer service
shall be minimum requirements and may be placed in a common trench. All
materials used shall be in accordance with specifications as required by the
Plumbing Inspector and all plumbing shall be inspected before gravel backfill
is implaced.
   (I)   Individual wells. An individual well shall produce at least five
gallons per minute and shall be cased or grouted to provide a safe, potable
water supply. A pressure tank equal to ten times the well capacity is required.
   (J)   Individual sewage systems. Each individual system shall include a
septic tank at least 900 gallons in capacity followed by an absorption system
based on Public Health Service minimum standards. All percolation results shall
be filed with the City Clerk showing that a competent soils engineer conducted
the field tests. The minimum lot area required for septic tank use shall be as
determined necessary by the City Engineer. Soil samples shall be provided by
the subdivider.
   (K)   House plumbing. When individual well and septic tanks are used and the
septic tank is placed at the rear of the house, it shall be required that
plumbing be extended from the vent stack of the rear outlet to a point five
feet beyond the basement footing and capped. Inside the basement, the vent
elbow shall be set up to be easily reversed for connection to the capped line.
The basement slab shall be scored for easy removal to include an area three
feet square.
   (L)   Drainage facilities. All surfaces and underground drainage systems
shall be installed to adequately remove all natural drainage that accumulates
on the developed property. Where a master plan or storm sewer district has been
established, the drainage network shall conform to the adopted plan. All piping
shall provide complete removal and a permanent solution for the drainage water.
Open ditches are to be avoided if at all possible.
   (M)   Street signs. All street signs shall be installed by the city.
   (N)   Inspection. All improvements required on site, as described under
“engineering standards”, shall be inspected during construction by the City
Engineer at the expense of the subdivider. This inspection shall include
aggregate samples, bituminous mix samples, concrete samples and visual
inspection of projects during the installation of work.
§ 12.52 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   This chapter may be amended only by a two-thirds vote of the Council
after a public hearing on the amendment has been duly advertised and held.
   (B)   Proceedings for the amendment may be initiated by:
      (1)   The Council; and/or
      (2)   The Planning Commission.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
§§ 12.53 THROUGH 12.98 RESERVED FOR FUTURE EXPANSION.
§ 12.99 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful,
or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor, except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. 85-A, effective 5-21-1966)
CHAPTER 13: REGULATING TREE/SHRUB PLANTING AND MAINTENANCE
Section
   Intent and purpose
   
13.01   Definitions
   
13.02   Establishment of City Tree Board
   
13.03   Street tree species to be planted
   
13.04   Spacing and location of street trees
   
13.05   Public tree care
   
13.06   Tree topping
   
13.07   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property
   
13.08   Interference with City Tree Board
   
13.09   Arborists license and bond
   
13.10   Destruction of trees on public property
   
13.11   Right of review by City Council
   
13.12   Violation a misdemeanor
INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Regulating and planting and maintenance of trees and other woody vegetation
on public and private property and establishing a City Tree Board.
§ 13.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARK TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks and all areas owned by the city or to which the public has free access as
park.
   STREET TREES. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, boulevards
or within city property.
   TREE SIZES.
      (1)   LARGE TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of over
50 feet.
      (2)   MEDIUM TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 50
feet.
      (3)   SMALL TREE. Any plant material that will grow to a height of 30
feet.
§ 13.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Tree Board. The City Park Board is hereby designated as the City Tree
Board.
   (B)   Members. Members of the Park Board shall hold office concurrently with
their terms as Park Board members.
   (C)   Compensation. Members of the City Tree Board shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities. It shall be the responsibility of the
City Tree Board to study, investigate, counsel, develop and administer a
written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal
or disposition of trees and shrubs, in parks, along streets and in other public
areas. The plan shall be presented to the Council and, following the review and
approval by the Council, shall constitute the official comprehensive City Tree
Plan. The Board, when requested by the Council, shall consider, investigate,
make findings, report and recommend upon any special matter of question coming
within the scope of its work.
   (E)   Officers. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules
and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A majority of the
members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. Nothing
in this section shall be deemed to conflict with M.S. §§ 412.501 through
412.531, as they may be amended from time to time, respecting the operation of
a municipal park board.
§ 13.03 STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED.
   (A)   No species may be planted on public property within the city without
the prior written permission of the City Tree Board.
   (B)   Prior to the Tree Board taking action, it shall review all requests
for planting to assure that the species are appropriate.
§ 13.04 SPACING AND LOCATION OF STREET TREES.
   (A)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees shall be in accordance with tree
species size classes provided in this chapter, and no trees may be planted
closer together than as follows: small trees, 30 feet; medium trees, 40 feet;
and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or approved by
the City Forester or Engineer.
   (B)   Location. The distance trees may be planted from curbs or curblines
and sidewalks shall be in accordance with the tree species size classes listed
in §
13.01 of this chapter, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet; medium trees, three feet;
and large trees, four feet; unless approved by the City Forester or Engineer.
   (C)   Corners, fireplugs and driveways. No street tree shall be planted
closer than 35 feet to any street corner, measured from the point of nearest
intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be planted closer than 15
feet to any fireplug, nor five feet from any driveway.
   (D)   Utilities. No street trees other than those defined as “small trees”
in §
13.01 of this chapter may be planted under, or within ten level feet of, any
overhead utility wire; or over or within ten lateral feet of any underground
water line, sewer line, transmission lines or other utility.
§ 13.05 PUBLIC TREE CARE.
   (A)   Care of street trees. The city shall have the right to plant, prune,
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to ensure the
public safety or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of the public
grounds. No other planting may be done without consent of the City Forester or
Engineer.
   (B)   Removal of trees endangering utilities or other public improvements.
The city’s Tree Board may remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or
part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its nature,
is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines or other
public improvement, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or other
pest. Every tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within the city shall
be pruned so that the branches shall not obstruct the light from any street
lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection, and so that there shall
be a clear space of at least eight feet above the street or sidewalk. Dead,
diseased or dangerous trees or broken or decayed limbs or trees which endanger
the safety of the public shall be removed.
   (C)   Trees on private property.
      (1)   The City Tree Board shall have the authority to order the trimming,
treatment and removal of trees, shrubs or plants upon private property when the
action is necessary to public safety or to prevent the spread of disease or
insects to trees, shrubs or plants located on public property. Any tree or
shrub situated upon private property, but so situated as to extend its branches
over the improved portion of a public street or easement, shall be so trimmed
by the owner of the real property upon which the same is located, so that there
is a clear height of at least eight feet over that portion of the easement used
for pedestrian travel; and the persons shall remove the dead or diseased
branches or stubs of trees which are or may become hazardous to the public use
of the easement. Any trees obstructing traffic- control signs or devices from
the view of the pedestrian or motorist shall be pruned at a height established
by the city’s Tree Board to ensure proper safety for motorists or pedestrians.
      (2)   All orders to trim, remove or treat trees, shrubs or plants given
pursuant to this section, shall be in writing and shall be served in person or
by first class mail upon the owner of the property where the trees, shrubs or
plants are located. The orders shall afford the owner of the property not less
than ten days from the date of the mailing of the notice to comply with the
order. It shall be unlawful for any owner of property receiving such an order
to fail to comply with the order in the time specified.
      (3)   If the required action is not taken by the property owner within
the specified time, the city’s Tree Board may cause the trees, shrubs or plants
concerned to be trimmed, removed or treated, with the costs being borne by the
property owner. If not voluntarily paid to the city by the owner, the costs of
the trimming, removal or treatment may be recovered by the city by special
assessment upon the property owner.
§ 13.06 TREE TOPPING.
   It shall be unlawful practice for any person, firm or city department to top
any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property without
authorization from the City Forester or Engineer. TOPPING is defined as the
severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches in diameter
within the tree’s crown, to a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or obstructions where other pruning practices
are impractical may be exempted from this chapter at the determination of the
city’s Tree Board.
§ 13.07 DEAD OR DISEASED TREE REMOVAL ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased
trees on public or private property within the city in accordance with this
chapter.
§ 13.08 INTERFERENCE WITH CITY TREE BOARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city’s Tree Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter.
§ 13.09 ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a license. The license fee shall
be $25 annually in advance; provided, however, that, no license shall be
required of any public utility company, or its agents, or city employee doing
the work in the pursuit of their public service endeavors. Before any license
shall be issued, each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of
liability insurance in the minimum amounts of $50,000 for bodily injury and
$100,000 property damage, indemnifying the city or any person injured, or
damage resulting from the pursuit of such endeavors as herein described.
§ 13.10 DESTRUCTION OF TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, alter or destroy any street
tree or park tree without the prior authorization of the City Council or the
city’s Tree Board.
§ 13.11 RIGHT OF REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by any ruling or order of the city’s Tree Board may
appeal to the City Council, which shall hear the matter and make a final
decision. The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct and
decisions of the city’s Tree Board. The City Council may modify, affirm or
reverse any determination of the city’s Tree Board.
§ 13.12 VIOLATION A MISDEMEANOR.
   Every person who violates a section, division, paragraph or provision of
this chapter when he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or fails to act when the failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful, or performs an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act
when the failure is prohibited or declared unlawful thereof, shall be punished
as for a misdemeanor, except as otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Adopted 2-1-1993)
CHAPTER 14: CREATION OF JOINT POWERS AUTHORITY
BETWEEN VIRGINIA AND EVELETH
Section
   
14.01   Agreement
§ 14.01 AGREEMENT.
   The parties to this agreement are governmental units of the state. This
agreement is made and entered into pursuant to M.S. § 471.59, as it may be
amended from time to time.
“ARTICLE I - GENERAL PURPOSE
   The general purpose of this Agreement is to create an organization by which
the parties may jointly and cooperatively facilitate economic development and
redevelopment in a certain Project Area as defined herein, all pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes, Sections 469.090 to 469.108.
ARTICLE II - DEFINITIONS
   Section 1.   For the purposes of this Agreement the terms defined in Article
II have the meanings given them, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
   Section 2.   “Act” means Minnesota Statutes, Sections 469.090 to 469.108 and
Sections 469.174 to 469.179.
   Section 3.   “Agreement” means this Agreement.
   Section 4.   “Board” means the Board of Commissioners created by Article IV.
   Section 5.   “City” means the City of Virginia, Minnesota and the City of
Eveleth, Minnesota, as the context requires.
   Section 6.   “Council” means the City Council of a City.
   Section 7.   “Commissioner” means a commissioner or alternate commissioner
appointed under Article IV of this Agreement.
   Section 8.   “Governing Body” means the Board of Commissioners of a Member.
   Section 9.   “Member” means a governmental unit which is a party to this
Agreement and is in compliance with and in good standing under this Agreement.
   Section 10.   “Project Area” means the property described in Exhibit A
hereto.
   Section 11.   “Virginia/Eveleth Economic Development Authority (“VEEDA”)
means the organization established by this Agreement.
ARTICLE III - MEMBERSHIP
   The Members of VEEDA are the Virginia Economic Development Authority and the
Eveleth Economic Development Authority.
ARTICLE IV - BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS
   Section 1.   The governing body of VEEDA is its Board of Commissioners,
which consists of seven voting Commissioners. Each Member must appoint three
Commissioners to the Board and three alternates. One of the three Commissioners
must serve on the Council of the Member’s City (and may or may not serve on the
Member’s Governing Body). The other two Commissioners must serve on the
Member’s Governing Body. These six Commissioners shall collectively appoint one
Commissioner and one alternate, hereafter refereed to as the “at large
Commissioner” and the “at large alternate,” respectively. The at large
Commissioner and alternate may be any resident of either City.
   Section. 2.   Alternate Commissioners shall either have the same
qualifications as Commissioners, or (except in the case of the at large
alternate) be employed as staff of a Member or the Member’s City. The alternate
Commissioner may attend meetings of the Board and may vote in the
Commissioner’s absence.
   Section 3.   Commissioners (except the at large Commissioner) are appointed
by resolution of the Governing Body of a Member. The at large Commissioner is
appointed by resolution of the six appointed Commissioners at the
organizational meeting. Appointing resolutions must be filed with the
secretary-treasurer accompanied by each Commissioner’s address for purposes of
notice.
   Section 4.   The executive director of each Member shall serve as a non-
voting ex officio Commissioners. The ex-officio Commissioners may attend
meetings and shall receive all notices and mailings given to voting
Commissioners.
   Section 5.   The term of a Commissioner is one year. The terms of
Commissioners initially appointed expire on December 31, 1994. Commissioners
serve until their respective successors are appointed and qualify.
   Section 6.   A Commissioner may be removed from the Board at any time, with
or without cause, by resolution of the Governing Body making the appointment.
The resolution removing the Commissioner must be filed with the secretary-
treasurer.
   Section 7.   A vacancy on the Board is filled in the same manner that an
appointment of a Commissioner is made.
   Section 8.   Commissioners may not vote by proxy.
   Section 9.   A Commissioner may not vote if the Board determines that the
Member represented by the Commissioner is not in compliance with this Agreement
or if the Commissioner has been removed from the Board.
ARTICLE V - MEETINGS
   Section 1.   The Commissioners must conduct an organizational meeting no
later than 30 days after, the effective date of this Agreement. At the
organizational meeting, or as soon thereafter as is reasonably possible, the
Board must appoint the at large Commissioner, elect its officers and adopt such
by-laws and other procedures governing the conduct of its meetings and its
business as it deems appropriate.
   Section 2.   The Board must conduct an annual meeting at a date and place
specified in its bylaws to elect officers and to undertake such other business
as may properly come before it. The Board may provide for a schedule of regular
meetings. A regular meeting must be held once in each calendar quarter in the
year 1994 and thereafter as provided by the by-laws.
   Section 3.   A special meeting of the Board may be called by the president
or by the secretary-treasurer upon written request of such number of
Commissioners as specified by the by-laws. Notice of a special meeting must be
mailed to Commissioners at least five days prior to the special meeting and in
accordance with law. Business at special meetings is limited to matters
contained in the notice of the special meeting.
   Section 4.   Commissioners serve without compensation from VEEDA or any
Member.
   Section 5.   At least four voting Commissioners constitute a quorum of the
Board. Attendance by a quorum of the Board is necessary for conducting a
meeting of the Board.
ARTICLE VI - OFFICERS; COMMITTEES
   Section 1.   The officers of the Board are a president, vice president and
secretary treasurer elected for a term of one year by the Commissioners at the
organizational meeting and at the annual meeting. The Board may designate
Commissioners to act as officers in the absence of an officer.
   Section 2.   The president presides at meetings of the Board. The secretary-
treasurer is responsible for records of proceedings of the Board, the funds and
financial records of the Board, and such other matters as may be delegated to
the secretary-treasurer by the Board.
   Section 3.   The president and the secretary-treasurer must sign vouchers or
orders disbursing funds of the VEEDA. Disbursement must be made in the method
prescribed by law for economic development authorities.
   Section 4.   The Board may in its by-laws provide for and define the duties
of such other officers as it determines necessary from time to time.
   Section 5.   The Board may in its by-laws provide for such committees as it
determines necessary from time to time. A by-law providing for an executive
committee and defining the powers and duties of an executive committee may be
adopted only by a favorable vote of all Commissioners of the Board.
ARTICLE VII - POWERS AND DUTIES
   Section 1.   The Board has the powers and duties to facilitate and promote
economic development and redevelopment within the Project Area pursuant to the
Act, subject to the following terms and conditions:
   (a)   Exercise of any powers by the Board under the Act is subject to all
terms and conditions applicable to either Member under the enabling resolution
(as defined in the Act ) that established each Member, including but not
limited to any approvals by the Council of each City that may be required for
action by any Member under such enabling resolution.
   (b)   For the purposes of the Act, VEEDA constitutes an “authority” as
defined in the Act, and any action of an authority requiring approval by the
governing body of a city under the Act requires approval of the Councils of
both Member Cities.
   (c)   The Board has no jurisdiction or powers outside the boundaries of the
Project Area, as such area may be amended from time to time.
   (d)   The Board has no power or authority to issue bonds or other
obligations.
   Section 2.   Consistent with this Agreement and the Act, the Board may:
   (a)   Acquire, own, lease, exchange, transfer, sell or otherwise dispose of
real and person property;
   (b)   Enter into contracts necessary to carry out the purposes of VEEDA;
   (c)   Contract to purchase space, goods or services from either Member; and
   (d)   Do all things necessary and convenient to carry out the purposes of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE VIII - FINANCIAL MATTERS
   Section 1.   The fiscal year of VEEDA is the calendar year.
   Section 2.   The Board must adopt an annual budget prior to July 1 of each
year. The Board must give each Member a reasonable opportunity to comment or
object to the proposed budget before adoption. Notice of the adopted budget
must be mailed promptly thereafter to the chief administrative officer of each
Member. The budget is deemed approved by each Member unless a Member gives
written notice to the secretary-treasurer that the Member is withdrawing at the
end of the year as provided in Article X.
   Section 3.   Operational and capital costs are to be shared according to
methods agreed upon by unanimous vote of the Board. Those methods may include
membership dues and fees, charges for services to Members and charges for
capital costs to Members.
   Section 4.   Billings to VEEDA Members are due and payable no later than 30
days after mailing. In the event of a dispute as to the amount of a billing, a
Member must nevertheless make payment as billed to preserve membership status.
The Member may make payment subject to its right to dispute the bill and
exercise any remedies available to it. Failure to pay a billing within 60 days
results in suspension of voting privileges of the Member’s Commissioner.
Failure to pay a billing within 120 days is grounds for termination of
membership, but VEEDA’s rights to the billing are not affected by termination
of membership.
   Section 5.   The Board must provide in the by-laws for the reporting to the
Members of the receipts and disbursements and the financial condition of the
organization at regular intervals not less than quarterly.
ARTICLE IX - WITHDRAWAL
   Section 1.   A Member may withdraw from the VEEDA no later than 30 days
after the adoption of the budget by giving written notice to the secretary-
treasurer. The notice shall be accompanied by a certified copy of a resolution
adopted by the governing body of that Member authorizing its withdrawal from
membership. The withdrawal is effective at the end of the calendar year in
which notice is given.
   Section 2.   The withdrawal of a Member does not affect that Member’s
obligation to pay fees, charges or contractual charges for which it is
obligated under this Agreement.
ARTICLE X - DISSOLUTION; AMENDMENT
   Section 1.   VEEDA may be dissolved by unanimous approval of its Members in
good standing. Dissolution is mandatory when the secretary-treasurer has
received certified copies of resolutions adopted by the Governing Bodies of
both Members and the Councils of both Cities requesting dissolution of the
VEEDA.
   Section 2.   In the event of a dissolution, the Board must determine the
measures necessary to effect the dissolution and must provide for the taking of
such measures as promptly as circumstances permit, subject to the provisions of
this Agreement and law.
   Section 3.   In the event of dissolution and following the payment of all
outstanding obligations, assets of VEEDA will be distributed between the
Members in direct proportion to their cumulative annual membership
contributions. If those obligations exceed the assets of the VEEDA, the net
deficit of the VEEDA will be charged to and paid by the then existing Members
in direct proportion to their cumulative annual membership contributions.
   Section 4.   This Agreement, including the boundaries of the Project Area,
may be amended by mutual written agreement approved by the Governing Body of
both Members and the Council of both Cities. Any such amendment is effective in
accordance with the terms of Article XI.
ARTICLE XI - EFFECTIVE DATE; DURATION
   This Agreement continues in effect indefinitely unless terminated in
accordance with its terms. This Agreement is effective on the day that executed
copies of this Agreement accompanied by the resolutions authorizing its
execution approved by Council of each City and the Governing Body of each
Member are filed by the Members with the City Clerk of the City of Virginia.”
CHAPTER 15: ROTARY PARK
Section
   
15.01   Property description
   
15.02   Use of property
   
15.03   Public dedication
§ 15.01 PROPERTY DESCRIPTION.
   The following described property shall be dedicated as “Rotary Park”: City
of Virginia, Plat of Virginia, Block 34: that part of Lots 5 through 8 lying
southwesterly of 6th Avenue West, all of Lots 9 through 16 and Lot 17, except
the part beginning on southerly line at intersection with southwesterly line of
6th Avenue West; thence northwesterly along 6th Avenue West 50 feet to a point
on the southerly line 110 feet westerly of southwesterly line of 6th Avenue all
of east-west alley lying westerly of 6th Avenue West; all of Oliver Place; and
part of Fairmount Drive adjacent; and City of Virginia, Plat of Virginia, Block
35: Lot 1, except the part beginning on the west line 62.71 feet southerly of
the northwest corner; thence east parallel to the north line 4.91 feet; thence
right 90 degrees due south 59.81 feet to a point on the west line; thence north
four degrees 40 minutes 30 seconds west along the west line 60.01 feet to point
of beginning and part of Lot 2 east of a line assuming east line to run south
four degrees 40 minutes 30 seconds east and beginning at a point on the east
line 122.92 feet southerly on the northeast corner; thence running due south to
end on the north line of Fairmount Drive; and that part of adjacent Fairmount
Drive lying north of Silver Lake.
§ 15.02 USE OF PROPERTY.
   The above property shall be dedicated as a public park to be used as a park
in perpetuity allowing the citizens of the city to have the use of this
property for recreational and social purposes as desired by the community.
§ 15.03 PUBLIC DEDICATION.
   This dedicated area shall be known as “Rotary Park” and shall be forever
dedicated to the citizens of the city.
(Adopted 1-25-2000)
CHAPTER 16: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
16.01   Policy and purpose
   
16.02   Definitions
   
16.03   Establishment of an emergency management organization
   
16.04   Powers and duties of the Coordinator
   
16.05   Local emergencies
   
16.06   Emergency regulations
   
16.07   Emergency management a governmental function
   
16.08   Violations
   
16.09   Effective date
§ 16.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps or catastrophic measure or
emergencies that are technological in nature; and in order to ensure that
preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with the disasters and,
generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the public peace,
health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the people of the
city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between the city and other
political subdivisions of the state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with provisions of M.S. Ch. 12, § 12.25, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of
the state shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in a catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances, which calls for
immediate action to prevent it from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by flood, fire, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps or emergencies that are technological in nature. These functions
include, without limitation, firefighting services, police services, emergency
medical services, engineering, warning services, communications, radiological
and chemical, evacuation, congregate care, emergency transportation, existing
or properly assigned functions of plant protection, temporary restoration of
public utility services and other functions related to civil protection,
together with all other activities necessary or incidental for carrying out of
the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT includes those activities
sometimes referred to as CIVIL DEFENSE functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level, emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This ORGANIZATION
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities, and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF AN EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
    There is hereby created with the city government an emergency management
organization, which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Coordinator, hereinafter called the “Coordinator”. The
Coordinator shall be appointed by the Mayor and City Council for an indefinite
term and may be removed by them at any time. Any salary or expenses will be
determined by the City Council. The Coordinator shall have direct
responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the city’s
emergency management organization, subject to the direction and control of the
Mayor and City Council.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COORDINATOR.
   (A)   The Coordinator, with the consent of the Mayor and City Council, shall
represent the city on any federal, state, regional or local organization or
conference for emergency management.
   (B)   The Coordinator shall prepare an all-hazards, emergency-operations
plan for the delivery of emergency services for the city, and shall present
this plan to the City Council for its action. The plan may be modified in like
manner from time to time. The plan shall be coordinated with such similar plans
of the county and neighboring municipalities. When the City Council has
approved the plan by resolution, it shall be the duty of all city agencies and
all city emergency preparedness forces to perform the duties and functions
assigned by the plan as approved.
   (C)   The Coordinator shall develop mutual aid agreements with other
political subdivisions for reciprocal emergency services, and shall present
these agreements to the Council for its action. Such arrangements shall be
consistent with the duties of the Emergency Management Department to render
assistance in accordance with the provisions of such mutual aid arrangements.
   (D)   The Coordinator may recommend the procurement of supplies and
equipment for the preparation of training programs and public information
programs, and shall conduct practice, drills and other training exercises that
may be necessary to fully train and equip emergency management personnel for
their duties in time of need.
   (E)   The Coordinator may survey the training and education of the work
force of the city, the industries, resources and facilities of the city in
order to ascertain their capability to function in time of emergency.
   (F)   The Coordinator shall institute such training programs, public
information programs and conduct practice warning alerts and emergency
exercises as may be necessary to assure prompt and effective operation of the
city’s emergency operations plan when a disaster occurs.
   (G)   The Coordinator shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. To the maximum extent practicable, the officers
and personnel of all such departments and agencies shall cooperate with and
extend such services and facilities to the city emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency, in cooperation with the Coordinator, shall be responsible for the
planning and programming of such emergency activities as will involve the
utilization of the facilities of that department or agency.
   (H)   The Coordinator shall cooperate with federal, state and local
officials in matters pertaining to the training, equipping and functioning of
efforts and emergency of every kind.
   (I)   The Coordinator shall act as principal aide and advisor to the city
officials responsible for direction and control of all city emergency
operations during an emergency. The Coordinator’s main responsibility is to
assure coordination among the operating departments, non-governmental groups,
and with higher and adjacent governments. Responsibilities of the Coordinator
in meeting the critical emergency functions of the city are further outlined in
the city’s emergency operations plan (EOP).
   (J)   As directed in the city’s emergency operations plan, the Coordinator
shall provide and equip in the city an emergency operations center (EOC), and
if necessary, an auxiliary EOC, to be used during an emergency as headquarters
for the direction and coordination of emergency services. The Director shall
arrange for installation at the EOC of communication systems with heads of
emergency services, the station and operating units of municipal services and
other agencies concerned with emergency services, and for communications with
other communities and control centers within the surrounding area, and with the
federal and state agencies concerned.
   (K)   The Coordinator shall use the services, equipment, supplies and
facilities of existing departments, offices, personnel and agencies of the city
to the maximum extent practicable, and all city employees are directed to
cooperate with the Director in carrying out emergency management functions,
   (L)   The Coordinator shall report to the City Council annually, and as
otherwise required by the Council, on the operation of the Emergency Management
Department.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity, and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator/Clerk-Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or interjurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an interjurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
   (D)   Every officer and agency of the city shall cooperate with the federal
and state authority, and with authorized agencies engaged in emergency
management, to the fullest extent possible consistent with the performance of
their duties. The provisions of this chapter, and of all regulations made
hereunder, shall be subject to all applicable and controlling provisions of
federal and state laws and regulations, and orders issued hereunder, and shall
be deemed to be suspended and inoperative so far as they may be in conflict
therewith.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)    Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the City
Council, the Council may, by resolution, promulgate regulations, consistent
with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the conduct of
persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair, maintenance and
safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health, fire and safety
regulation, drills or practice periods required for preliminary training, and
all other matters required to protect public safety, health and welfare in
declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited; and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator, which copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of the regulation and its availability for inspection
at the City Administrator’s office shall be conspicuously posted at the front
of City Hall or other headquarters of the city, or at places in the affected
area as the City Council shall designate in the resolution. By like resolution,
the City Council may modify or rescind any regulation.
   (C)   The City Council may rescind any such regulation by resolution at any
time. If not sooner rescinded, every such regulation shall expire at the end of
30 days after its effective date, or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent
with an emergency regulation promulgated by the City Council shall be suspended
during the period of time and to the extent the conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§12.37, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property, and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster, without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
    All functions authorized and carried out hereunder, and all other
activities relating to emergency management, are declared to be governmental
functions. Except in cases of willful conduct, the city, its officers, agents
and employees, while engaged in authorized emergency management activities,
shall not be liable for an injury or death of any person or damage to property
as a result of such activity. The provisions of this chapter shall not affect
the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise
be entitled under this chapter, under the worker’s compensation law, or under
any pension law, any loan, benefit or compensation resulting from an Act of
Congress, the State of Minnesota or other governmental agency.
(Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.08 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter, or a regulation
adopted hereunder, relating to acts, omissions or conduct other than official
acts of city officers, employees or volunteers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
§ 16.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This chapter becomes effective upon its passage and publication according
to law.
(Adopted 1-8-2002; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-2018)
CHAPTER 17: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND PRESERVATION CODE
Section
   
17.01   Authority and purpose
   
17.02   General
   
17.03   Applicability
   
17.04   Department of Property Maintenance Inspection
   
17.05   Duties and powers of the Code Official
   
17.06   Approval
   
17.07   Violations
   
17.08   Notices and orders
   
17.09   Unsafe structures and equipment
   
17.10   Emergency measures
   
17.11   Demolition
   
17.12   Means of appeal
   
17.13   Stop work order
   
17.14   Terminology
   
17.15   General definitions
   
17.16   General requirements
   
17.17   Exterior property areas
   
17.18   Swimming pools, spas and hot tubs
   
17.19   Exterior structure
   
17.20   Interior structure
   
17.21   Component serviceability
   
17.22   Handrails and guardrails
   
17.23   Rubbish and garbage
   
17.24   Pest elimination
   
17.25   Light, ventilation and occupancy limitations
   
17.26   Light
   
17.27   Ventilation
   
17.28   Occupancy limitations
   
17.29   Plumbing facilities and fixture requirements
   
17.30   Required facilities
   
17.31   Toilet rooms
   
17.32   Plumbing systems and fixtures
   
17.33   Water system
   
17.34   Sanitary drainage system
   
17.35   Storm drainage
   
17.36   Mechanical and electrical requirements
   
17.37   Heating facilities
   
17.38   Mechanical equipment
   
17.39   Electrical facilities
   
17.40   Electrical equipment
   
17.41   Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters
   
17.42   Duct systems
   
17.43   Fire safety requirements
   
17.44   Means of egress
   
17.45   Fire resistance ratings
   
17.46   Fire protection systems
   
Appendix A: Boarding standard
§ 17.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in City Clerk’s office,
being marked and designed as the Property Maintenance and Preservation Code of
the City of Virginia, Minnesota, 2016 edition, is hereby incorporated by
reference as the “PROPERTY MAINTENANCE AND PRESERVATION CODE OF THE CITY OF
VIRGINIA, MINNESOTA” for regulating and governing the conditions and
maintenance of all existing property, buildings and structures; by providing
the standards for supplied utilities and facilities and other physical things
and conditions essential to ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit
for occupation and use; and the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit
for human occupancy and use, and the demolition of the existing structures in
the city; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of the Property Maintenance and Code on file in the office
of the City Clerk are hereby referred to, incorporated and made a part thereof,
as if fully set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, as the same may be amended from time to time,
prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   When any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter upon the
use of land or buildings or upon the bulk of buildings is either more
restrictive or less restrictive than similar conditions imposed by the
provisions of this chapter or other city code provisions, the more restrictive
condition shall prevail.
   (C)   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this
legislation is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, the decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter. The City
Council hereby declares that it would have passed this law, and each section,
division, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared
unconstitutional.
   (D)   Nothing in this legislation or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as
cited in division (C) above; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by this legislation.
   (E)   The City Clerk is hereby ordered and directed to cause this
legislation to be published.
   (F)   This law and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements, orders
and matters established and adopted hereby shall take effect 15 days after the
date of publication and be enforced beginning 1-1-2017.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.02 GENERAL.
   (A)   Title. These regulations shall be known as “Property Maintenance and
Preservation Code of the City of Virginia, Minnesota”, hereinafter referred to
as “this code” or “this chapter”.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to all existing
residential and non-residential structures and all existing premises and
constitute minimum requirements and standards for premises, structures,
equipment and facilities for light, ventilation, space, heating, sanitation,
protection from the elements, life safety, safety from fire and other hazards,
and for safe and sanitary maintenance; the responsibility of owners, operators
and occupants; the occupancy of existing structures and premises; and for
administration, enforcement and penalties.
   (C)   Intent. This code shall be construed to secure its expressed intent,
which is to ensure public health, safety and welfare insofar as they are
affected by the continued occupancy and maintenance of structures and premises.
Existing structures and premises that do not comply with these provisions shall
be altered or repaired to provide a minimum level of health and safety as
required herein.
   (D)   Severability. If a section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of
this code is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, the decision shall
not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this code.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   General. Where there is a conflict between a general requirement and a
specific requirement, the specific requirement shall govern. Where differences
occur between provisions of this code and the referenced standards, the
provisions of this code shall apply. Where, in a specific case, different
sections of this code specify different requirements, the most restrictive
shall govern.
   (B)   Maintenance. Equipment, systems, devices and safeguards required by
this code or a previous regulation or code under which the structure or
premises was constructed, altered or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No owner, operator or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for the temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are in
progress. The requirements of this code are not intended to provide the basis
for removal or abrogation of fire protection and safety systems and devices in
existing structures. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or the
owner’s designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings,
structures and premises.
   (C)   Application of other codes. Repairs, additions or alterations to a
structure, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the state’s Building Code, the state’s Energy
Conservation Code, the state’s Fire Code, the state’s Fuel Gas Code, the
state’s Mechanical Code, the state’s Residential Code, the state’s Plumbing
Code and NFPA 70. Nothing in this code shall be construed to cancel, modify or
set aside any provision of the Property Maintenance and Preservation Code of
the city.
   (D)   Existing remedies. The provisions in this code shall not be construed
to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its officers or
agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any structure which is
dangerous, unsafe and insanitary.
   (E)   Workmanship. Repairs, maintenance work, alterations or installations
which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this code shall
be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and installed in accordance
with the manufacturer’s instructions.
   (F)   Historic buildings. The provisions of this code shall not be mandatory
for existing buildings or structures designated as historic building that are
designated by State or Federal Governments when the buildings or structures are
judged by the Code Official to be safe and in the public interest of health,
safety and welfare.
   (G)   Referenced codes and standards.
      (1)   General. The codes and standards referenced in this code shall be
those that are listed in division (C) above and considered part of the
requirements of this code to the prescribed extent of each reference and as
further regulated in §
17.08 of this chapter.
      (2)   Exceptions. Where enforcement of a code provision would violate the
conditions of the listing of the equipment or appliance, the conditions of the
listing shall apply.
      (3)   Conflicts. Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code
and the referenced standards, the provisions of this code shall apply.
      (4)   Provisions in referenced codes and standards. Where the extent of
the reference to a referenced code or standard includes subject matter that is
within the scope of this code, the provisions of this code, as applicable,
shall take precedence over the provisions in the referenced code or standard.
   (H)   Requirements not covered by code. Requirements necessary for the
strength, stability or proper operation of an existing fixture, structure or
equipment, or for the public safety, health and general welfare, not
specifically covered by this code, shall be determined by the Code Official.
   (I)   Application of references. References to chapter or section numbers,
or to provisions not specifically identified by number, shall be construed to
refer to the chapter, section or provision of this code.
   (J)   Other laws. The provisions of this code shall not be deemed to nullify
any provisions of local, state or federal law.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.04 DEPARTMENT OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. The Department of Property Maintenance Inspection is hereby
created and the executive official in charge thereof shall be known as the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Appointment.
      (1)   General. The Code Official shall be appointed by the City
Administrator; authority of the jurisdiction.
      (2)   Liability. The Code Official, member of the Board of Appeals or
employee charged with the enforcement of this code, while acting for the
jurisdiction, in good faith and without malice in the discharge of the duties
required by this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby be
rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal liability
for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act or by
reason of an act or omission in the discharge of official duties. Any suit
instituted against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that
officer or employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions
of this code shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction
until the final termination of the proceedings. The Code Official or any
subordinate shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit or proceeding that
is instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this code.
   (C)   Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the Department
in carrying out its responsibilities under this code and any administrative
fines applicable shall be determined by the City Council and adopted by
resolution.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.05 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   General. The Code Official is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this code. The Code Official shall have the authority
to render interpretations of this code and to adopt policies and procedures in
order to clarify the application of its provisions. The interpretations,
policies and procedures shall be in compliance with the intent and purpose of
this code. The policies and procedures shall not have the effect of waiving
requirements specifically provided for in this code.
   (B)   Inspections. The Code Official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of the inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of the approved agency or by the responsible
individual. The Code Official is authorized to engage the expert opinion as
deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise, subject to
the approval of the appointing authority.
   (C)   Right of entry. Where it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce
the provisions of this code, or whenever the Code Official has reasonable cause
to believe that there exists in a structure or upon a premises a condition in
violation of this code, the Code Official is authorized to enter the structure
or premises at reasonable times to inspect or perform the duties imposed by
this code; provided that, if the structure or premises is occupied the Code
Official shall present credentials to the occupant and request entry. If the
structure or premises is unoccupied, the Code Official shall first make a
reasonable effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control
of the structure or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the Code
Official shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure entry.
   (D)   Identification. The Code Official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting structures or premises in the performance of duties under this
code.
   (E)   Notices and orders. The Code Official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this code.
   (F)   Department records. The Code Official shall keep official records of
all business and activities of the Department specified in the provisions of
this code. The records shall be retained in the official records for the period
required for retention of public records.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.06 APPROVAL.
   (A)   Modifications. Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in
carrying out the provisions of this code, the Code Official shall have the
authority to grant modifications for individual cases upon application of the
owner or owner’s representative; provided, the Code Official shall first find
that special individual reason makes the strict letter of this code impractical
and the modification is in compliance with the intent and purpose of this code
and that the modification does not lessen health, life and fire safety
requirements. The details of action granting modifications shall be recorded
and entered in the Department files.
   (B)   Alternative materials, methods and equipment. The provisions of this
code are not intended to prevent the installation of any material or to
prohibit any method of construction not specifically prescribed by this code;
provided that, any such alternative has been approved. An alternative material
or method of construction shall be approved where the Code Official finds that
the proposed design is satisfactory and complies with the intent of the
provisions of this code, and that the material, method or work offered is, for
the purpose intended, at least the equivalent of that prescribed in this code
in quality, strength, effectiveness, fire resistance, durability and safety.
   (C)   Required testing. Whenever there is insufficient evidence of
compliance with the provisions of this code, or evidence that a material or
method does not conform to the requirements of this code, or in order to
substantiate claims for alternative materials or methods, the Code Official
shall have the authority to require tests to be made as evidence of compliance
at no expense to the jurisdiction.
      (1)   Test methods. Test methods shall be as specified in this code or by
other recognized test standards. In the absence of recognized and accepted test
methods, the Code Official shall be permitted to approve appropriate testing
procedures performed by an approved agency.
      (2)   Reports. Reports of tests shall be retained by the Code Official
for the period required for retention of public records.
   (D)   Used material and equipment. The use of used materials which meet the
requirements of this code for new materials is permitted. Materials, equipment
and devices shall not be reused unless the elements are in good repair or have
been reconditioned and tested when necessary, placed in good and proper working
condition and approved by the Code Official.
   (E)   Approved materials and equipment. Materials, equipment and devices
approved by the Code Official shall be constructed and installed in accordance
with the approval.
   (F)   Research reports. Supporting data, where necessary to assist in the
approval of materials or assemblies not specifically provided for in this code,
shall consist of valid research reports from approved sources.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.07 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for a person, firm or corporation
to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of this code.
   (B)   Notice of violation. The Code Official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with §
17.08 of this chapter.
   (C)   Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with §
17.08 of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor or civil
infraction punishable by an administrative fine as determined by the City
Council, with the fee set by resolution, and the violation shall be determined
to be a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied
with, the Code Official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in
equity to restrain, correct or abate the violation, or to require the removal
or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in violation of the
provisions of this code or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto. Any
action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on the premises shall be
charged against the real estate upon which the structure is located and shall
be a lien upon the real estate.
   (D)   Violation penalties. Any person, who shall violate a provision of this
code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the requirements thereof,
shall be prosecuted within the limits provided by state or local laws. Each day
that a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (E)   Abatement of violation. The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the jurisdiction from
instituting appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation, or to
prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises, or to stop an
illegal act, conduct, business or utilization of the building, structure or
premises.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.08 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice to person responsible. Whenever the Code Official determines
that there has been a violation of this code or has grounds to believe that a
violation has occurred, notice shall be given in the manner prescribed in
divisions (B) and (C) below to the person responsible for the violation as
specified in this code. Notices for condemnation procedures shall also comply
with §
17.09(C) of this chapter.
   (B)   Form. The notice prescribed in division (A) shall be in accordance
with all of the following:
      (1)   Be in writing;
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued;
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or structure into
compliance with the provisions of this code;
      (5)   Inform the property owner of the right to appeal; and
      (6)   Include a statement of the right to file a lien in accordance with
§
17.07(C) of this chapter.
   (C)   Method of service. The notice shall be deemed to be properly served if
a copy thereof is:
      (1)   Delivered personally;
      (2)   Sent by certified or first class mail addressed to the last known
address;
      (3)   If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by the notice; or
      (4)   Notice placed in city’s official designated newspaper.
   (D)   Unauthorized tampering. Signs, tags or seals posted or affixed by the
Code Official shall not be mutilated, destroyed or tampered with, or removed
without authorization from the Code Official.
   (E)   Penalties. Penalties for non-compliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in §
17.07(C) of this chapter.
   (F)   Transfer of ownership. It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or
otherwise dispose of the dwelling unit or structure to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until the owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee
or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation issued by
the Code Official and shall furnish to the Code Official a signed and notarized
statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee, acknowledging the
receipt of the compliance order or notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making the corrections or repairs required
by the compliance order or notice of violation.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.09 UNSAFE STRUCTURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   General. When a structure or equipment is found by the Code Official
to be unsafe, or when a structure is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, the structure shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this code.
      (1)   Unsafe structures. An unsafe structure is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property or safety of the public or the
occupants of the structure by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because the structure contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe or of the
faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete collapse
is possible.
      (2)   Unsafe equipment. Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers or other equipment on the premises or within the structure
which is in the disrepair or condition that the equipment is a hazard to life,
health, property or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
structure.
      (3)   Structure unfit for human occupancy. A structure is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code Official finds that the structure is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the structure is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is insanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities or other essential equipment required by this code, or because the
location of the structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
structure or to the public.
      (4)   Unlawful structure. An unlawful structure is one found in whole or
in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this code, or was
erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
      (5)   Dangerous structure or premises. For the purpose of this code, any
structure or premises that have any or all of the conditions or defects
described below shall be considered dangerous:
         (a)   Any door, aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or other means of
egress that does not conform to the approved Building or Fire Code of the
jurisdiction as related to the requirements for existing buildings;
         (b)   The walking surface of any aisle, passageway, stairway, exit or
other means of egress is so warped, worn loose, torn or otherwise unsafe as to
not provide safe and adequate means of egress;
         (c)   Any portion of a building, structure or appurtenance that has
been damaged by fire, earthquake, wind, flood, deterioration, neglect,
abandonment, vandalism or by any other cause to such an extent that it is
likely to partially or completely collapse or to become detached or dislodged;
         (d)   Any portion of a building, or any member, appurtenance or
ornamentation on the exterior thereof that is not of sufficient strength or
stability, or is not so anchored attached or fastened in place so as to be
capable of resisting natural or artificial loads of one and one-half the
original designed value;
         (e)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, the removal
or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or for any
other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some portion of
the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is likely to fail
or give way;
         (f)   The building or structure, or any portion thereof, is clearly
unsafe for its use and occupancy;
         (g)   The building or structure is neglected, damaged, dilapidated,
unsecured or abandoned so as to become an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, becomes a harbor for
vagrants, criminals or enables persons to resort to the building or structure
for committing a nuisance or an unlawful act;
         (h)   Any building or structure has been constructed, exists or is
maintained in violation of any specific requirement or prohibition applicable
to the building or structure provided by the approved Building or Fire Code of
the jurisdiction, or of any law or ordinance to such an extent as to present
either a substantial risk of fire, building collapse or any other threat to
life and safety;
         (i)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, inadequate light, ventilation,
mechanical or plumbing system, or otherwise, is determined by the Code Official
to be unsanitary, unfit for human habitation or in such a condition that is
likely to cause sickness or disease;
         (j)   Any building or structure, because of a lack of sufficient or
proper fire-resistance rated construction, fire protection systems, electrical
system, fuel connections, mechanical system, plumbing system or other cause, is
determined by the Code Official to be a threat to life or health; and/or
         (k)   Any portion of a building remains on a site after the demolition
or destruction of the building or structure or whenever any building or
structure is abandoned so as to constitute the building or portion thereof as
an attractive nuisance or hazard to the public.
   (B)   Closing of vacant structures.
      (1)   If the structure is vacant and unfit for human habitation and
occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse, the Code Official is
authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the premises and order the
structure closed up so as not to be an attractive nuisance. Upon failure of the
owner to close up the premises within the time specified in the order, the Code
Official shall cause the premises to be closed and secured through any
available public agency or by contract or arrangement by private persons and
the cost thereof shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon the real estate and may be
collected by any other legal resource.
      (2)   Authority to disconnect service utilities. The Code Official shall
have the authority to authorize disconnection of utility service to the
building, structure or system regulated by this code and the referenced codes
and standards set forth in this section in case of emergency where necessary to
eliminate an immediate hazard to life or property or when the utility
connection has been made without approval. The Code Official shall notify the
serving utility and, whenever possible, the owner and occupant of the building,
structure or service system of the decision to disconnect prior to taking the
action. If not notified prior to disconnection, the owner or occupant of the
building structure or service system shall be notified in writing as soon as
practical thereafter.
   (C)   Notice. Whenever the Code Official has condemned a structure or
equipment under the provisions of this section, notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place in or about the structure affected by the notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the structure or
equipment in accordance with §
17.08 of this chapter. If the notice pertains to equipment, it shall also be
placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall be in the form prescribed
in §
17.08 of this chapter.
   (D)   Placarding.
      (1)   General. Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to comply
with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code Official shall post
on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
“CONDEMNED” and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment or removing the placard.
      (2)   Placard removal. The Code Official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code Official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this code.
   (E)   Prohibited occupancy. Any occupied structure condemned and placarded
by the Code Official shall be vacated as ordered by the Code Official. Any
person who shall occupy placarded premises or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be
liable for the penalties provided by this code.
   (F)   Abatement methods. The owner, operator or occupant of a building,
premises or equipment deemed unsafe by the Code Official shall abate or cause
to be abated or corrected the unsafe conditions either by repair,
rehabilitation, demolition or other approved corrective action.
   (G)   Record. The Code Official shall cause a report to be filed on an
unsafe condition. The report shall state the occupancy of the structure and the
nature of the unsafe condition.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.10 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   (A)   Imminent danger. When, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any structure or part of a structure has fallen and
life is endangered by the occupation of the structure, or when there is actual
or potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
structure because of explosives, explosive fumes or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the Code Official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The Code Official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to the structure a notice reading as
follows: “This Structure Is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official”. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter the structure,
except for the purpose of securing the structure, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition or of demolishing the same.
   (B)   Temporary safeguards. Notwithstanding other provisions of this code,
whenever, in the opinion of the Code Official, there is imminent danger due to
an unsafe condition, the Code Official shall order the necessary work to be
done, including the boarding up of openings, to render the structure
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause such other action to be taken as the Code Official
deems necessary to meet the emergency.
   (C)   Closing streets. When necessary for public safety, the Code Official
shall temporarily close structures and close, or order the authority having
jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places adjacent to
unsafe structures, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
   (D)   Emergency repairs. For the purposes of this section, the Code Official
shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required work as
expeditiously as possible.
   (E)   Costs of emergency repairs. Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe structure is or was located for the recovery of the
costs.
   (F)   Hearing. Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with the order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the Appeals Board, be afforded a hearing as described in this code.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.11 DEMOLITION.
   (A)   General. The Code Official shall order the owner of any premises upon
which is located any structure, which, in the Code Official’s judgment after
review, is so deteriorated or dilapidated or has become so out of repair as to
be dangerous, unsafe, insanitary or otherwise unfit for human habitation or
occupancy, and such that it is unreasonable to repair the structure, to
demolish and remove the structure; or, if the structure is capable of being
made safe by repairs, to repair and make safe and sanitary, or to board up and
hold for future repair or to demolish and remove at the owner’s option; or
where there has been a cessation of normal construction of any structure for a
period of more than nine months, the Code Official shall order the owner to
demolish and remove the structure, or board up until future repair. Boarding
the building up for future repair shall not extend beyond six months, unless
approved by the Building Official.
   (B)   Notices and orders. All notices and orders shall comply with §
17.08 of this chapter.
   (C)   Failure to comply. If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Code Official shall cause the
structure to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of the
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
structure is located and shall be a lien upon the real estate.
   (D)   Salvage materials. When any structure has been ordered demolished and
removed, the governing body or other designated officer under the contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of the sale, after
deducting the expenses of the demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of the sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted, for the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the reply shall so state.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.12 MEANS OF APPEAL.
   (A)   Application for appeal. Any person directly affected by a decision of
the Code Official or a notice or order issued under this code shall have the
right to appeal to the Board of Appeals, provided that a written application
for appeal is filed within 20 days after the day the decision, notice or order
was served. An application for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true
intent of this code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have been
incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of this code do not fully apply or the
requirements of this code are adequately satisfied by other means. Decisions of
the Board of Appeals may be appealed to the City Council, in writing, within 20
days after the day of the decision and the appeal shall be based on a claim
that the true intent of the code or the rules legally adopted thereunder have
been incorrectly interpreted by the Board of Appeals, the provisions of this
code do not fully apply, or the requirements of this code are adequately
satisfied by other means.
   (B)   Membership of Board. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city is
hereby named as the Board of Appeals of the Property Maintenance Code. All
requirements and actions taken by the Board are subject to the Planning and
Zoning Board structure. The Board of Appeals shall consist of a minimum of
three members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on matters
pertaining to property maintenance and who are not employees of the
jurisdiction. The Code Official shall be an ex officio member, but shall have
no vote on any matter before the board. The Board shall be appointed by the
chief appointing authority and shall serve staggered and overlapping terms.
   (C)   Notice of meeting. The Board shall meet on the first Monday of each
month or upon notice from the Chairperson, subject to legal requirements in
regard to notice of public hearings.
   (D)   Open hearing.
      (1)   General. All hearings before the Board shall be open to the public.
The appellant, the appellant’s representative, the Code Official and any person
whose interests are affected shall be given an opportunity to be heard. A
quorum shall consist of a minimum of two-thirds of the Board membership.
      (2)   Procedure. The Board shall adopt and make available to the public
through the Secretary procedures under which a hearing will be conducted. The
procedures shall not require compliance with strict rules of evidence, but
shall mandate that only relevant information be received.
   (E)   Postponed hearing. When the full Board is not present to hear an
appeal, either the appellant or the appellant’s representative shall have the
right to request a postponement of the hearing.
   (F)   Board decision. The Board shall modify or reverse the decision of the
Code Official only by a concurring vote of a majority of the total number of
appointed Board members.
      (1)   Records and copies. The decision of the Board shall be recorded.
Copies shall be furnished to the appellant, Code Official and City Council.
      (2)   Administration. The Code Official shall take immediate action in
accordance with the decision of the Board or City Council if further appealed.
   (G)   Court review. Any person, whether or not a previous party of the
appeal, shall have the right to apply to the appropriate court for a writ of
certiorari to correct errors of law. Application for review shall be made in
the manner and time required by law following the filing of the decision in the
office of the chief administrative officer.
   (H)   Stays of enforcement. Appeals of notice and orders (other than
imminent danger and emergency measures notices) shall stay the enforcement of
the notice and order until the appeal is heard by the Appeals Board.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.13 STOP WORK ORDER.
   (A)   Authority. Whenever the Code Official finds any work regulated by this
code being performed in a manner contrary to the provisions of this code or in
a dangerous or unsafe manner, the Code Official is authorized to issue a stop
work order.
   (B)   Issuance. A stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to
the owner of the property, to the owner’s agent or to the person doing the
work. Upon issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately
cease. The stop work order shall state the reason for the order and the
conditions under which the cited work is authorized to resume.
   (C)   Emergencies. Where an emergency exists, the Code Official shall not be
required to give a written notice prior to stopping the work.
   (D)   Failure to comply. Any person who shall continue any work after having
been served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed
to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine
of not less than a charge of misdemeanor and charged as per §
17.07 of this chapter.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.14 TERMINOLOGY.
   (A)   Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this code, have the meanings shown in this chapter.
      (1)   Board of Appeals. The Planning and Zoning Commission of the city is
hereby named as the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   Code Official. The official who is charged with the administration
and enforcement of this code or any duly authorized representative.
      (3)   Reasonable cause. Cause substantiated by documented complaint,
evidence that is in public view or discovery by Code Official or designees
during the course of their regular duties.
   (B)   Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural, the singular.
   (C)   Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not defined in this code
and are defined in the city’s Minnesota Code, the Minnesota Code, the state’s
Building Code, the state’s Existing Building Code, the state’s Fire Code, the
state’s Fuel Gas Code, the state’s Mechanical Code, the state’s Plumbing Code,
the state’s Residential Code, the state’s Zoning Code or NFPA 70, the terms
shall have the meanings ascribed to them as stated in those codes.
   (D)   Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, the terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
   (E)   Parts. Whenever the words “dwelling unit”, “dwelling”, “premises”,
“building”, “rooming house”, “rooming unit”, “housekeeping unit” or “story” are
stated in this code, they shall be construed as though they were followed by
the words “or any part thereof”.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.15 GENERAL DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCHORED. Secured in a manner that provides positive connection.
   APPROVED. Approved by the Code Official.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
   BATHROOM. A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
   BEDROOM. Any room or space used or intended to be used for sleeping purposes
in either a dwelling or sleeping unit.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Board of Appeals shall be the city’s Planning and
Zoning Commission.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The City of Virginia Code Official shall be appointed by the
City Administrator; authority of the jurisdiction. The appointee is charged
with the administration and enforcement of this code or any duly authorized
representative.
   CONDEMN. To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
   DEPARTMENT OF PROPERTY INSPECTION. The Department of Property Inspection
shall be the city’s Engineering Department.
   DETACHED. When a structural element is physically disconnected from another
and that connection is necessary to provide a positive connection.
   DETERIORATION. To weaken, disintegrate, corrode, rust or decay and lose
effectiveness.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EASEMENT. The portion of land or property reserved for present or future use
by a person or agency other than the legal fee owner(s) of the property. The
EASEMENT shall be permitted to be for use under, on or above a lot or lots.
   EQUIPMENT SUPPORT. Those structural members or assemblies of members or
manufactured elements, including braces, frames, lugs, snuggers, hangers or
saddles, that transmit gravity load, lateral load and operating load between
the equipment and the structure.
   EXTERIOR PROPERTY. The open space on the premises and on adjoining property
under the control of owners or operators of the premises.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   GUARD. A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking. Bathrooms, toilet rooms, closets, halls, storage or utility spaces and
similar areas are not considered HABITABLE SPACES.
   HOUSEKEEPING UNIT. A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable space
equipped and intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating which
does not contain, within such a unit, a toilet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
   IMMINENT DANGER. A condition which could cause serious or life threatening
injury or death at any time.
   INFESTATION. The presence, within or contiguous to, a structure or premises
of insects, rats, vermin or other pests.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A vehicle which cannot be driven upon the public
streets for reason including, but not limited to, being unlicensed, wrecked,
abandoned, in a state of disrepair or incapable of being moved under its own
power.
   LABELED. Equipment, materials or products to which have been affixed a
label, seal, symbol or other identifying mark of a nationally recognized
testing laboratory, inspection agency or other organization concerned with
product evaluation that maintains periodic inspection of the production of the
above labeled items and whose labeling indicates either that the equipment,
material or product meets identified standards or has been tested and found
suitable for a specified purpose.
   LET FOR OCCUPANCY or LET. To permit, provide or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
   NEGLECT. The lack of proper maintenance for a building or structure.
   OCCUPANCY. The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
   OCCUPANT. Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
   OPENABLE AREA. The part of a window, skylight or door which is available for
unobstructed ventilation and which opens directly to the outdoors.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of the person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership or any other group acting as
a unit.
   PEST ELIMINATION. The control and elimination of insects, rodents or other
pests by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serves as their food or water; by other approved pest
elimination methods.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, easement or public way, including
any structures thereon.
   PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky, which is deeded, dedicated or
otherwise permanently appropriated to the public for public use.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A building arranged or occupied for lodging, with or without
meals, for compensation and not occupied as a one- or two-family dwelling.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and non-combustible waste materials, except garbage;
the term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke and
other combustible materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior,
rubber, leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral
matter, glass, crockery and dust and other similar materials.
   SLEEPING UNIT. A room or space in which people sleep, which can also include
permanent provisions for living, eating and either sanitation or kitchen
facilities, but not both. Such rooms and spaces that are also part of a
dwelling unit are not SLEEPING UNITS.
   STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE. An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case. It
is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was prohibited,
or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to do.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, corporation, partnership or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal, but not a bathtub
or shower.
   ULTIMATE DEFORMATION. The deformation at which failure occurs and which
shall be deemed to occur if the sustainable load reduces to 80% or less of the
maximum strength.
   VENTILATION. The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
   WORKMANLIKE. Executed in a skilled manner (e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, inline, undamaged and without maiming adjacent work).
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a structure.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.16 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and the responsibilities of persons for maintenance of structures,
equipment and exterior property.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures and exterior property in compliance with these requirements, except
as otherwise provided for in this code. A person shall not occupy as owner
occupant or permit another person to occupy premises which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter. Occupants of a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit
are responsible for keeping in a clean, sanitary and safe condition that part
of the dwelling unit, rooming unit, housekeeping unit or premises which they
occupy and control.
   (C)   Vacant structures and land. All vacant structures and premises thereof
or vacant land shall be maintained in a clean, safe, secure and sanitary
condition as provided herein so as not to cause a blighting problem or
adversely affect the public health or safety.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.17 EXTERIOR PROPERTY AREAS.
   (A)   Sanitation. All exterior property and premises shall be maintained in
a clean, safe and sanitary condition. The occupant shall keep that part of the
exterior property which such occupant occupies or controls in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (B)   Grading and drainage.
      (1)   General. All premises shall be graded and maintained to prevent the
erosion of soil and to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon, or
within any structure located thereon.
      (2)   Exception. Approved retention areas and reservoirs.
   (C)   Sidewalks and driveways. All sidewalks, walkways, stairs, driveways,
parking spaces and similar areas shall be kept in a proper state of repair and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
   (D)   Weeds. All premises and exterior property shall be maintained free
from weeds or plant growth in excess of six inches. All noxious weeds shall be
prohibited. WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants and
vegetation, other than trees or shrubs; provided, however, this term shall not
include cultivated flowers and gardens.
      (1)   Notification. Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a
property to cut and destroy weeds after service of a notice of violation, they
shall be subject to prosecution in accordance with §
17.07 of this chapter and as prescribed by the authority having jurisdiction.
      (2)   Abatement. Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any
duly authorized employee of the jurisdiction or contractor hired by the
jurisdiction shall be authorized to enter upon the property in violation and
cut and destroy the weeds growing thereon, and the costs of the removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
   (E)   Rodent harborage. All structures and exterior property shall be kept
free from rodent harborage and infestation. Where rodents are found, they shall
be promptly exterminated by approved processes which will not be injurious to
human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to
eliminate rodent harborage and prevent re-infestation.
   (F)   Exhaust vents. Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
   (G)   Accessory structures. All accessory structures, including detached
garages, fences and walls, shall be maintained structurally sound and in good
repair. Wood material, other than decay resistance varieties, must be protected
against decay by use of paint or other preservations.
   (H)   Motor vehicles.
      (1)   General. Except as provided for in other regulations, no
inoperative or unlicensed motor vehicle shall be parked, kept or stored on any
premises, and no vehicle shall at any time be in a state of major disassembly,
disrepair or in the process of being stripped or dismantled for more than ten
days. Spray painting of vehicles is prohibited unless conducted inside an
approved spray booth.
      (2)   Exception. A vehicle of any type is permitted to undergo major
overhaul lasting more than ten days, including body work; provided that, the
work is performed inside a structure or similarly enclosed area designed and
approved for such purposes.
   (I)   Defacement of property. No person shall willfully or wantonly damage,
mutilate or deface any exterior surface of any structure or building on any
private or public property by placing thereon any marking, carving or graffiti.
It shall be the responsibility of the owner to restore the surface to an
approved state of maintenance and repair.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.18 SWIMMING POOLS, SPAS AND HOT TUBS.
   (A)   Swimming pools. Swimming pools shall be maintained in a clean and
sanitary condition and in good repair.
   (B)   Enclosures.
      (1)   General. Private swimming pools, hot tubs and spas, containing
water more than 24 inches (610 mm) in depth shall be completely surrounded by a
fence or barrier at least 48 inches (1,219 mm) in height above the finished
ground level measured on the side of the barrier away from the pool. Gates and
doors in such barriers shall be self-closing and self-latching. Where the self-
latching device is a minimum of 54 inches (1,372 mm) above the bottom of the
gate, the release mechanism shall be located on the pool side of the gate.
Self-closing and self-latching gates shall be maintained such that the gate
will positively close and latch when released from an open position of six
inches (152 mm) from the gatepost. No existing pool enclosure shall be removed,
replaced or changed in a manner that reduces its effectiveness as a safety
barrier.
      (2)   Exception. Spas or hot tubs with a safety cover that complies with
ASTM F 1346 shall be exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.19 EXTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good
repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the
public health, safety or welfare.
      (1)   Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the currently adopted
Building Code in the city as required for existing buildings:
         (a)   The nominal strength of any structural member is exceeded by
nominal loads, the load effects or the required strength;
         (b)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of
walls and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads
or load effects;
         (c)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
         (d)   Siding and masonry joints including joints between the building
envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights are not maintained,
weather-resistant or water-tight;
         (e)   Structural members that have evidence of deterioration or that
are not capable of safely supporting all nominal loads and load effects;
         (f)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings,
are not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored
or are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
         (g)   Exterior walls that are not anchored to supporting and supported
elements or are not plumb and free of holes, cracks or breaks and loose or
rotting materials, are not properly anchored or are not capable of supporting
all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
         (h)   Roofing or roofing components that have defects that admit rain,
roof surfaces with inadequate drainage, or any portion of the roof framing that
is not in good repair with signs of deterioration, fatigue or without proper
anchorage and incapable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
         (i)   Flooring and flooring components with defects that affect
serviceability or flooring components that show signs of deterioration or
fatigue, are not properly anchored or are incapable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects;
         (j)   Veneer, cornices, belt courses, corbels, trim, wall facings and
similar decorative features not properly anchored or that are anchored with
connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load
effects;
         (k)   Overhang extensions or projections including, but not limited
to, trash chutes, canopies, marquees, signs, awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects;
         (l)   Exterior stairs, decks, porches, balconies and all similar
appurtenances attached thereto, including guards and handrails, are not
structurally sound, not properly anchored or that are anchored with connections
not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects; or
         (m)   Chimneys, cooling towers, smokestacks and similar appurtenances
not structurally sound or not properly anchored, or those that are anchored
with connections not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all
load effects.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   When substantiated otherwise by an approved method; and/or
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved
by the Code Official.
   (B)   Protective treatment. All exterior surfaces, including, but not
limited to, doors, door and window flames, cornices, porches, trim, balconies,
decks and fences, shall be maintained in good condition. Exterior wood
surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall be protected from the
elements and decay by painting or other protective covering or treatment.
Peeling, flaking and chipped paint shall be eliminated and surfaces repainted.
All siding and masonry joints, as well as those between the building envelope
and the perimeter of windows, doors and skylights, shall be maintained weather-
resistant and water-tight. All metal surfaces subject to rust or corrosion
shall be coated to inhibit the rust and corrosion, and all surfaces with rust
or corrosion shall be stabilized and coated to inhibit future rust and
corrosion. Oxidation stains shall be removed from exterior surfaces. Surfaces
designed for stabilization by oxidation are exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   Premises identification. To ensure proper identification by emergency
and other city staff, buildings shall have approved address numbers placed in a
position to be plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the
property. These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers
shall be Arabic numerals or alphabet letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of
four inches (102 mm) in height with one-half inch stroke.
   (D)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
   (E)   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents and other pests.
   (F)   Exterior walls. All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks
and loose or rotting materials; and maintained weather-proof and properly
surface coated where required to prevent deterioration. Without limiting the
generality of this section, a protective surface of a building shall be deemed
to be out of repair if:
      (1)   The protective surface is paint which is blistered or peeling to an
extent of more than 25% of the area of any plane or wall or other area
including window trim, cornice members, porch railings and other such areas;
and
      (2)   More than 25% of the finish coat of a stucco wall is worn through
or chipped away.
   (G)   Roofs and drainage. The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the structure.
Roof drains, gutters and downspouts shall be maintained in good repair and free
from obstructions. Roof water shall not be discharged in a manner that creates
a public nuisance.
   (H)   Decorative features. All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
   (I)   Overhang extensions. All overhang extensions including, but not
limited to, canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, fire escapes, standpipes
and exhaust ducts shall be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored
so as to be kept in a sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
   (J)   Stairways, decks, porches and balconies. Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (K)   Chimneys and towers. All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks, and
similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and in
good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from the
elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather coating
materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
   (L)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (M)   Window, skylight and door frames. Every window, skylight, door and
frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair and weather-tight.
      (1)   Glazing. All glazing materials shall be maintained free from cracks
and holes.
      (2)   Openable windows. Every window, other than a fixed window, shall be
easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
   (N)   Insect screens.
      (1)   General. During the period from April 1 to November 1, every door,
window and other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms,
food preparation areas, food service areas or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged or stored shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens of
minimum 16 mesh per inch (16 mesh per 25 mm), and every screen door used for
insect control shall have a self- closing device in good working condition.
      (2)   Exception. Screens shall not be required where other approved
means, such as air curtains or insect repellent fans, are employed.
   (O)   Doors. All exterior doors, door assemblies, operator systems, if
provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Locks at all
entrances to dwelling units and sleeping units shall tightly secure the door.
Locks on means of egress doors shall be in accordance with §
17.44(C) of this chapter.
   (P)   Basement hatchways. Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain and surface drainage water.
   (Q)   Guards for basement windows. Every basement window that is able of
opening shall be supplied with rodent shields, storm windows, screens or other
approved devices and protection against the entry of rodents.
   (R)   Building security. Doors, windows or hatchways for dwelling units,
room units or housekeeping units shall be provided with devices designed to
provide security for the occupants and property within.
      (1)   Doors. Doors providing access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or
housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let shall be equipped with a
deadbolt lock designed to be readily openable from the side from which egress
is to be made without the need for keys, special knowledge or effort and shall
have a minimum lock throw of one inch (25 mm). Such deadbolt locks shall be
installed according to the manufacturer’s specifications and maintained in good
working order. For the purpose of this section, a sliding bolt shall not be
considered an acceptable deadbolt lock.
      (2)   Windows. Operable windows located in whole or in part within six
feet (1,828 mm) above ground level or a walking surface below that provide
access to a dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented,
leased or let shall be equipped with a window sash locking device.
      (3)   Basement hatchways. Basement hatchways that provide access to a
dwelling unit, rooming unit or housekeeping unit that is rented, leased or let
shall be equipped with devices that secure the units from unauthorized entry.
      (4)   Gates. All exterior gates, gate assemblies, operator systems, if
provided, and hardware shall be maintained in good condition. Latches at all
entrances shall tightly secure the gates.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.20 INTERIOR STRUCTURE.
   (A)   General. The interior of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
Occupants shall keep that part of the structure which they occupy or control in
a clean and sanitary condition. Every owner of a structure containing a rooming
house, housekeeping units, a hotel, a dormitory, two or more dwelling units or
two or more non- residential occupancies shall maintain, in a clean and
sanitary condition, the shared or public areas of the structure and exterior
property.
      (1)   Unsafe conditions. The following conditions shall be determined as
unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the state’s Building
Code or the state’s Existing Building Code as required for existing buildings:
         (a)   The anchorage of the floor or roof to walls or columns, and of
walls and columns to foundations is not capable of resisting all nominal loads
or load effects;
         (b)   Structures or components thereof that have reached their limit
state;
         (c)   Structural members are incapable of supporting nominal loads and
load effects;
         (d)   Stairs, landings, balconies and all similar walking surfaces,
including guards and handrails, are not structurally sound, not properly
anchored or are anchored with connections not capable of supporting all nominal
loads and resisting all load effects; and
         (e)   Foundation systems that are not firmly supported by footings are
not plumb and free from open cracks and breaks, are not properly anchored or
are not capable of supporting all nominal loads and resisting all load effects.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   When substantiated otherwise by an approved method; and
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved
by the Code Official.
   (B)   Structural members. All structural members shall be maintained
structurally sound, and be capable of supporting the imposed loads.
   (C)   Interior surfaces. All interior surfaces, including windows and doors,
shall be maintained in good, clean and sanitary condition. Peeling, chipping,
flaking or abraded paint shall be repaired, removed or covered. Cracked or
loose plaster, decayed wood and other defective surface conditions shall be
corrected.
   (D)   Stairs and walking surfaces. Every stair, ramp, landing, balcony,
porch, deck or other walking surface shall be maintained in sound condition and
good repair.
   (E)   Handrails and guards. Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
   (F)   Interior doors. Every interior door shall fit reasonably well within
its frame and shall be capable of being opened and closed by being properly and
securely attached to jambs, headers or tracks as intended by the manufacturer
of the attachment hardware.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.21 COMPONENT SERVICEABILITY.
   (A)   General. The components of a structure and equipment therein shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   Unsafe conditions. Where any of the following conditions cause the
component or system to be beyond its limit state, the component or system shall
be determined as unsafe and shall be repaired or replaced to comply with the
state’s Building Code as required for existing buildings.
         (a)   Soils that have been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
            1.   Collapse of footing or foundation system;
            2.   Damage to footing, foundation, concrete or other structural
element due to soil expansion;
            3.   Adverse effects to the design strength of footing, foundation,
concrete or other structural element due to a chemical reaction from the soil;
            4.   Inadequate soil as determined by a geotechnical investigation;
            5.   Where the allowable bearing capacity of the soil is in doubt;
or
            6.   Adverse effects to the footing, foundation, concrete or other
structural element due to the ground water table.
         (b)   Concrete that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
            1.   Deterioration;
            2.   Ultimate deformation;
            3.   Fractures;
            4.   Fissures;
            5.   Spalling;
            6.   Exposed reinforcement; or
            7.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
         (c)   Aluminum that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
            1.   Deterioration;
            2.   Corrosion;
            3.   Elastic deformation;
            4.   Ultimate deformation;
            5.   Stress or strain cracks;
            6.   Joint fatigue; or
            7.   Detached dislodged or failing connections.
         (d)   Masonry that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
            1.   Deterioration;
            2.   Ultimate deformation;
            3.   Fractures in masonry or mortar joints;
            4.   Fissures in masonry or mortar joints;
            5.   Spalling;
            6.   Exposed reinforcement; or
            7.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
         (e)   Steel that has been subjected to any of the following
conditions:
            1.   Deterioration;
            2.   Elastic deformation;
            3.   Ultimate deformation;
            4.   Metal fatigue; or
            5.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections.
         (f)   Wood that has been subjected to any of the following conditions:
            1.   Ultimate deformation;
            2.   Deterioration;
            3.   Damage from insects, rodents and other vermin;
            4.   Fire damage beyond charring;
            5.   Significant splits and checks;
            6.   Horizontal shear cracks;
            7.   Vertical shear cracks;
            8.   Inadequate support;
            9.   Detached, dislodged or failing connections; or
            10.   Excessive cutting and notching.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   When substantiated otherwise by an approved method; and
         (b)   Demolition of unsafe conditions shall be permitted when approved
by the Code Official.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.22 HANDRAILS AND GUARDRAILS.
   (A)   General. Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than
four risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open
portion of a stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking
surface which is more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below
shall have guards. Handrails shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) in
height or more than 42 inches (1,067 mm) in height measured vertically above
the nosing of the tread or above the finished floor of the landing or walking
surfaces. Guards shall not be less than 36 inches (762 mm) in height above the
floor of the landing, balcony, porch, deck or ramp or other walking surface.
   (B)   Exception. Guards shall not be required where exempted by the adopted
Building Code.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.23 RUBBISH AND GARBAGE.
   (A)   Accumulation of rubbish or garbage. All exterior property and premises
and the interior of every structure shall be free from any accumulation of
rubbish or garbage.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish.
      (1)   General. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of all rubbish
in a clean and sanitary manner by placing the rubbish in approved containers.
      (2)   Rubbish storage facilities. The owner of every occupied premises
shall supply approved covered containers for rubbish, and the owner of the
premises shall be responsible for the removal of rubbish.
      (3)   Refrigerators. Refrigerators and similar equipment not in operation
shall not be discarded, abandoned or stored on premises without first removing
the doors.
   (C)   Disposal of garbage.
      (1)   General. Every occupant of a structure shall dispose of garbage in
a clean and sanitary manner by placing such garbage in an approved garbage
disposal facility or approved garbage containers.
      (2)   Containers. The operator of every establishment that produces
garbage shall provide, and at all times cause to be utilized, approved leak-
proof containers provided with close-fitting covers for the storage of the
materials until removed from the premises for disposal.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.24 PEST ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Infestation. All structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent
infestation. All structures in which insects or rodents are found shall be
promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious to human
health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to prevent
re-infestation.
   (B)   Owner. The owner of any structure shall be responsible for pest
elimination within the structure prior to renting or leasing the structure.
   (C)   Single occupant. The occupant of a one-family dwelling or of a single
tenant non-residential structure shall be responsible for pest elimination on
the premises.
   (D)   Multiple occupancy. The owner of a structure containing two or more
dwelling units, a multiple occupancy, a rooming house or a non-residential
structure shall be responsible for pest elimination in the public or shared
areas of the structure and exterior property. If infestation is caused by
failure of an occupant to prevent the infestation in the area occupied, the
occupant and owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
   (E)   Occupant. The occupant of any structure shall be responsible for the
continued rodent and pest free condition of the structure.
   (F)   Exception. Where the infestations are caused by defects in the
structure, the owner shall be responsible for pest elimination.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.25 LIGHT, VENTILATION AND OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this section shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for light, ventilation and space for occupying a
structure.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with these requirements.
A person shall not occupy as owner occupant, or permit another person to
occupy, any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Alternative devices. In lieu of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, artificial light or mechanical ventilation
complying with the state’s Building Code shall be permitted.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.26 LIGHT.
   (A)   Habitable spaces.
      (1)   Every habitable space shall have at least one window of approved
size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum total glazed
area for every habitable space shall be 8% of the floor area of the room.
      (2)   Wherever walls or other portions of a structure face a window of
any room and the obstructions are located less than three feet (914 mm) from
the window and extend to a level above that of the ceiling of the room, the
window shall not be deemed to face directly to the outdoors, nor to a court,
and shall not be included as contributing to the required minimum total window
area for the room.
   (B)   Exception. Where natural light for rooms or spaces without exterior
glazing areas is provided through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening
to the adjoining room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior
room or space, but a minimum of 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The exterior glazing
area shall be based on the total floor area being served.
   (C)   Common halls and stairways. Every common hall and stairway in
residential occupancies, other than in one- and two-family dwellings, shall be
lighted at all times with at least a 60-watt standard incandescent light bulb
for each 200 square feet (19 m2) of floor area or equivalent illumination;
provided that, the spacing between lights shall not be greater than 30 feet
(9,144 mm). In other than residential occupancies, means of egress, including
exterior means of egress, stairways shall be illuminated at all times the
building space served by the means of egress is occupied with a minimum of one
foot candle (11 lux) at floors, landings and treads.
   (D)   Other spaces. All other spaces shall be provided with natural or
artificial light sufficient to permit the maintenance of sanitary conditions,
and the safe occupancy of the space and utilization of the appliances,
equipment and fixtures.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.27 VENTILATION.
   (A)   Habitable spaces. Every habitable space shall have at least one
openable window. The total openable area of the window in every room shall be
equal to at least 45% of the minimum glazed area required in §
17.26(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Exception. Where rooms and spaces without openings to the outdoors are
ventilated through an adjoining room, the unobstructed opening to the adjoining
room shall be at least 8% of the floor area of the interior room or space, but
a minimum of 25 square feet (2.33 m2). The ventilation openings to the outdoors
shall be based on a total floor area being ventilated.
   (C)   Bathrooms and toilet rooms. Every bathroom and toilet room shall
comply with the ventilation requirements for habitable spaces as required by
this section; except that, a window shall not be required in such spaces
equipped with a mechanical ventilation system. Air exhausted by a mechanical
ventilation system from a bathroom or toilet room shall discharge to the
outdoors and shall not be recirculated.
   (D)   Cooking facilities. Unless approved through the certificate of
occupancy, cooking shall not be permitted in any rooming unit or dormitory
unit, and a cooking facility or appliance shall not be permitted to be present
in the rooming unit or dormitory unit.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Where specifically approved in writing by the Code Official; and
      (2)   Devices such as coffee pots and microwave ovens shall not be
considered cooking appliances.
   (F)   Process ventilation. Where injurious, toxic, irritating or noxious
fumes, gases, dusts or mists are generated, a local exhaust ventilation system
shall be provided to remove the contaminating agent at the source. Air shall be
exhausted to the exterior and not be re-circulated to any space.
   (G)   Clothes dryer exhaust. Clothes dryer exhaust systems shall be
independent of all other systems; UL approved, and shall be exhausted outside
the structure in accordance with the state’s Mechanical Code and manufacturer’s
instructions.
   (H)   Exception. Listed and labeled condensing (ductless) clothes dryers.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.28 OCCUPANCY LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Privacy. Dwelling units, hotel units, housekeeping units, rooming
units and dormitory units shall be arranged to provide privacy and be separate
from other adjoining spaces.
   (B)   Minimum room widths. A habitable room, other than a kitchen, shall be
a minimum of seven feet (2134 mm) in any plan dimension. Kitchens shall have a
minimum clear passageway of three feet (914 mm) between counter fronts and
appliances or counter fronts and walls.
   (C)   Minimum ceiling heights. Habitable spaces, hallways, corridors,
laundry areas, bathrooms, toilet rooms and habitable basement areas shall have
a minimum clear ceiling height of seven feet (2,134 mm).
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   In one- and two-family dwellings, beams or girders spaced a minimum
of four feet (1,219 mm) on center and projecting a maximum of six inches (152
mm) below the required ceiling height.
      (2)   Basement rooms in one- and two-family dwellings occupied
exclusively for laundry, study or recreation purposes, having a minimum ceiling
height of six feet eight inches (2,033 mm) with a minimum clear height of six
feet four inches (1,932 mm) under beams, girders, ducts and similar
obstructions.
      (3)   Rooms occupied exclusively for sleeping, study or similar purposes
and having a sloped ceiling over all or part of the room, with a minimum clear
ceiling height of seven feet (2,134 mm) over a minimum of one-third of the
required minimum floor area. In calculating the floor area of such rooms, only
those portions of the floor area with a minimum clear ceiling height of five
feet (1,524 mm) shall be included.
   (E)   Bedroom and living room requirements. Every bedroom and living room
shall comply with the requirements of divisions (F) through (K) below.
   (F)   Room area. Every living room shall contain at least 120 square feet
(11.2 m2) and every bedroom shall contain a minimum of 70 square feet (6.5 m2)
and every bedroom occupied by more than one person shall contain a minimum of
50 square feet (4.6 m2) of floor area for each occupant thereof.
   (G)   Access from bedrooms. Bedrooms shall not constitute the only means of
access to other bedrooms or habitable spaces and shall not serve as the only
means of egress from other habitable spaces.
   (H)   Exception. Units that contain fewer than two bedrooms.
   (I)   Water closet accessibility. Every bedroom shall have access to at
least one water closet and one lavatory without passing through another
bedroom. Every bedroom in a dwelling unit shall have access to at least one
water closet and lavatory located in the same story as the bedroom or an
adjacent story.
   (J)   Prohibited occupancy. Kitchens and non-habitable spaces shall not be
used for sleeping purposes.
   (K)   Other requirements. Bedrooms shall comply with the applicable
provisions of this code including, but not limited to, the light, ventilation,
room area, ceiling height and room width requirements of this chapter; the
plumbing facilities and water heating facilities requirements; the heating
facilities and electrical receptacle requirements; and the smoke detector and
emergency escape requirements of this chapter.
   (L)   Overcrowding. Dwelling units shall not be occupied by more occupants
than permitted by the minimum area requirements of division (M) below.
      (1)   Sleeping area. The minimum occupancy area required by Table A in
division (M) below shall not be included as a sleeping area in determining the
minimum occupancy area for sleeping purposes. All sleeping areas shall comply
with divisions (E) through (K) above.
      (2)   Combined spaces. Combined living room and dining room spaces shall
comply with the requirements of division (M) below if the total area is equal
to that required for separate rooms and if the space is located so as to
function as a combination living room/dining room.
   (M)   Minimum area requirements.
 
Table A: Minimum Area in Square Feet
             1-2 Occupants  3-5 Occupants 6 or More Occupants
Bedrooms     Shall comply with §
             17.28(E)(1) through (E)(6)
Dining roomb No requirement 80            100
Living rooma 120            120           150
NOTES TO TABLE:
For SI: 1 square foot = 0.093 m1
a See §
17.28(L)(2) for combined living room/dining room spaces.
b See §
17.28(L)(1) for limitations on determining the minimum occupancy area for
sleeping purposes.
 
   (N)   Efficiency unit. Nothing in this section shall prohibit an efficiency
living unit from meeting the following requirements.
      (1)   A unit occupied by not more than one occupant shall have a minimum
clear floor area of 120 square feet (11.2 m2). A unit occupied by not more than
two occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area of 220 square feet (20.4
m2). A unit occupied by three occupants shall have a minimum clear floor area
of 320 square feet (29.7 m2). These required areas shall be exclusive of the
areas required by items listed herein.
      (2)   The unit shall be provided with a kitchen sink, cooking appliance
and refrigeration facilities, each having a minimum clear working space of 30
inches (762 mm) in front. Light and ventilation conforming to this code shall
be provided.
      (3)   The unit shall be provided with a separate bathroom containing a
water closet, lavatory and bathtub or shower.
      (4)   The maximum number of occupants shall be three.
   (O)   Food preparation. All spaces to be occupied for food preparation
purposes shall contain suitable space and equipment to store, prepare and serve
foods in a sanitary manner. There shall be adequate facilities and services for
the sanitary disposal of food wastes and refuse, including facilities for
temporary storage.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.29 PLUMBING FACILITIES AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
plumbing systems, facilities and plumbing fixtures to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
such plumbing facilities and plumbing fixtures in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner occupant or permit another
person to occupy any structure or premises which does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.30 REQUIRED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Dwelling units. Every dwelling unit shall contain its own bathtub or
shower, lavatory, water closet and kitchen sink which shall be maintained in a
sanitary, safe working condition. The lavatory shall be placed in the same room
as the water closet or located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which the water closet is located. A kitchen sink shall not be
used as a substitute for the required lavatory.
   (B)   Rooming houses. At least one water closet, lavatory and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied for each four rooming units.
   (C)   Hotels. Where private water closets, lavatories and baths are not
provided, one water closet, one lavatory and one bathtub or shower having
access from a public hallway shall be provided for each ten occupants.
   (D)   Employees’ facilities.
      (1)   General. A minimum of one water closet, one lavatory and one
drinking facility shall be available to employees.
      (2)   Drinking facilities. Drinking facilities shall be a drinking
fountain, water cooler, bottled water cooler or disposable cups next to a sink
or water dispenser. Drinking facilities shall not be located in toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
   (E)   Public toilet facilities. Public toilet facilities shall be maintained
in a safe sanitary and working condition in accordance with the state’s
Plumbing Code. Except for periodic maintenance or cleaning, public access and
use shall be provided to the toilet facilities at all times during occupancy of
the premises.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.31 TOILET ROOMS.
   (A)   Privacy. Toilet rooms and bathrooms shall provide privacy and shall
not constitute the only passageway to a hall or other space, or to the
exterior. A door and interior locking device shall be provided for all common
or shared bathrooms and toilet rooms in a multiple dwelling.
   (B)   Access. Toilet rooms and bathrooms serving hotel units, rooming units
or dormitory units or housekeeping units, shall have access by traversing a
maximum of one flight of stairs and shall have access from a common hall or
passageway.
   (C)   Location of employee toilet facilities. Toilet facilities shall have
access from within the employees’ working area. The required toilet facilities
shall be located a maximum of one story above or below the employees’ working
area and the path of travel to the facilities shall not exceed a distance of
500 feet (152 m). Employee facilities shall either be separate facilities or
combined employee and public facilities.
   (D)   Exception. Facilities that are required for employees in storage
structures or kiosks, which are located in adjacent structures under the same
ownership, lease or control, shall not exceed a travel distance of 500 feet
(152 m) from the employees’ regular working area to the facilities.
   (E)   Floor surface. In other than dwelling units, every toilet room floor
shall be maintained to be a smooth, hard, non-absorbent surface to permit such
floor to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.32 PLUMBING SYSTEMS AND FIXTURES.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly installed and
maintained in working order, and shall be kept free from obstructions, leaks
and defects and be capable of performing the function for which the plumbing
fixtures are designed. All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe,
sanitary and functional condition.
   (B)   Fixture clearances. Plumbing fixtures shall have adequate clearances
for usage and cleaning.
   (C)   Plumbing system hazards. Where it is found that a plumbing system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by reason of
inadequate service, inadequate venting, cross connection, back siphonage,
improper installation, deterioration or damage or for similar reasons, the Code
Official shall require the defects to be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.33 WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub or shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other plumbing fixture shall be properly connected to either a
public water system or to an approved private water system. All kitchen sinks,
lavatories, laundry facilities, bathtubs and showers shall be supplied with hot
or tempered and cold running water in accordance with the state’s Plumbing
Code.
   (B)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the flood level rim of the fixture. Shampoo basin faucets, janitor sink
faucets and other hose bibs or faucets to which hoses are attached and left in
place, shall be protected by an approved atmospheric type vacuum breaker or an
approved permanently attached hose connection vacuum breaker.
   (C)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained to
provide a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and appurtenances in
sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable the fixtures to function
properly, safely and free from defects and leaks.
   (D)   Water heating facilities.
      (1)   Water heating facilities shall be properly installed, maintained
and capable of providing an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every
required sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower and laundry facility at a minimum
temperature of 110°F (43°C). A gas burning water heater shall not be located in
any bathroom, toilet room, bedroom or other occupied room normally kept closed,
unless adequate combustion as is provided.
      (2)   An approved combination temperature and pressure relief valve and
relief valve discharge pipe shall be properly installed and maintained on water
heaters.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.34 SANITARY DRAINAGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   General. All plumbing fixtures shall be properly connected to either a
public sewer system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
   (B)   Maintenance. Every plumbing stack, vent, waste and sewer line shall
function properly and be kept free from obstructions, leaks and defects.
   (C)   Grease interceptors. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be maintained in accordance with this code and the manufacturer’s
installation instructions. Grease interceptors and automatic grease removal
devices shall be regularly serviced and cleaned to prevent the discharge of
oil, grease and other substances harmful or hazardous to the building drainage
system, the public sewer, the private sewage disposal system or the sewage
treatment plant or processes. All records of maintenance, cleaning and repairs
shall be available for inspection by the Code Official.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.35 STORM DRAINAGE.
   Drainage of roofs and paved areas, yards and courts, and other open areas on
the premises shall not be discharged in a manner that creates a public
nuisance.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.36 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the structure shall provide and maintain
mechanical and electrical facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises which does not comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.37 HEATING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Heating facilities shall be provided in
structures as required by this section.
   (B)   Residential occupancies. Dwellings shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all
habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms based on the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality indicated in the state’s Plumbing Code. Cooking
appliances shall not be used, nor shall portable unvented fuel burning space
heaters be used, as a means to provide required heating.
   (C)   Exception. In areas where the average monthly temperature is above
30°F (-1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (D)   Heat supply. Every owner and operator of any building who rents,
leases or lets one or more dwelling units or sleeping units on terms, either
expressed or implied, to furnish heat to the occupants thereof shall supply
heat during the period from September 1 to June 1 to maintain a minimum
temperature of 68°F (20°C) in all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   When the outdoor temperature is below the winter outdoor design
temperature for the locality, maintenance of the minimum room temperature shall
not be required provided that the heating system is operating at its full
design capacity. The winter outdoor design temperature for the locality shall
be as indicated in the state’s Plumbing Code.
      (2)   In areas where the average monthly temperature is above 30°F (-
1°C), a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) shall be maintained.
   (F)   Occupiable work spaces. Indoor occupiable work spaces shall be
supplied with a heat source during the period from September 1 to June 1 that
is capable of maintaining a minimum temperature of 65°F (18°C) during the
period the spaces are occupied.
   (G)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Processing, storage and operation areas that require cooling or
special temperature conditions; and
      (2)   Areas in which persons are primarily engaged in vigorous physical
activities.
   (H)   Room temperature measurement. The required room temperatures shall be
measured three feet (914 mm) above the floor near the center of the room and
two feet (610 mm) inward from the center of each exterior wall.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.38 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Mechanical appliances. All mechanical appliances, fireplaces, solid
fuel burning appliances, cooking appliances and water heating appliances shall
be properly installed and maintained in a safe working condition, and shall be
capable of performing the intended function.
   (B)   Removal of combustion products. All fuel burning equipment and
appliances shall be connected to an approved chimney or vent.
   (C)   Effective operation. Fuel burning equipment and appliances which are
labeled for unvented operation.
   (D)   Clearances. All required clearances to combustible materials shall be
maintained.
   (E)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel burning equipment shall
be maintained.
   (F)   Combustion air. A supply of air for complete combustion of the fuel
and for ventilation of the space containing the fuel burning equipment shall be
provided for the fuel burning equipment.
   (G)   Energy conservation devices. Devices intended to reduce fuel
consumption by attachment to a fuel burning appliance, to the fuel supply line
thereto, or to the vent outlet or vent piping therefrom, shall not be installed
unless labeled for such purpose and the installation is specifically approved.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.39 ELECTRICAL FACILITIES.
   (A)   Facilities required. Every occupied building shall be provided with an
electrical system in compliance with the requirements of this section and §
17.40 of this chapter.
   (B)   Service. The size and usage of appliances and equipment shall serve as
a basis for determining the need for additional facilities in accordance with
NFPA 70. Dwelling units shall be served by a three- wire, 120/240-volt, single-
phase electrical service having a minimum rating of 60 amperes.
   (C)   Electrical system hazards. Where it is found that the electrical
system in a structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or the structure by
reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient receptacle and
lighting outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or
for similar reasons, the Code Official shall require the defects to be
corrected to eliminate the hazard.
      (1)   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with water exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to water.
      (2)   Electrical equipment. Electrical distribution equipment, motor
circuits, power equipment, transformers, wire, cable, flexible cords, wiring
devices, ground fault circuit interrupters, surge protectors, molded case
circuit breakers, low voltage fuses, luminaires, ballasts, motors and
electronic control, signaling and communication equipment that have been
exposed to water shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of the
state’s Building Code.
      (3)   Exception. The following equipment shall be allowed to be repaired
where an inspection report from the equipment manufacturer or approved
manufacturer’s representative indicates that the equipment has not sustained
damage that requires replacement:
         (a)   Enclosed switches, rated a maximum of 600 volts or less;
         (b)   Busway, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
         (c)   Panelboards, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
         (d)   Switchboards, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
         (e)   Fire pump controllers, rated a maximum of 600 volts;
         (f)   Manual and magnetic motor controllers;
         (g)   Motor control centers;
         (h)   Alternating current high voltage circuit breakers;
         (i)   Low voltage power circuit breakers;
         (j)   Protective relays, meters and current transformers;
         (k)   Low and medium voltage switchgear;
         (l)   Liquid filled transformers;
         (m)   Cast resin transformers:
         (n)   Wire or cable that is suitable for wet locations and whose ends
have not been exposed to water;
         (o)   Wire or cable, not containing fillers, that is suitable for wet
locations and whose ends have not been exposed to water;
         (p)   Luminaires that are listed as submersible;
         (q)   Motors; and
         (r)   Electronic control, signaling and communication equipment.
   (D)   Abatement of electrical hazards associated with fire exposure. The
provisions of this section shall govern the repair and replacement of
electrical systems and equipment that have been exposed to fire.
   (E)   Electrical equipment. Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures,
including furnace, water heating, security system and power distribution
circuits that have been exposed to fire, shall be replaced in accordance with
the provisions of the state’s Building Code.
   (F)   Exception. Electrical switches, receptacles and fixtures that shall be
allowed to be repaired where an inspection report from the equipment
manufacturer or approved manufacturer’s representative indicates that the
equipment has not sustained damage that requires replacement.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.40 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Installation. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be
properly installed and maintained in a safe and approved manner.
   (B)   Receptacles. Every habitable space in a dwelling shall contain at
least two separate and remote receptacle outlets. Every laundry area shall
contain at least one grounded type receptacle or a receptacle with a ground
fault circuit interrupter. Every bathroom shall contain at least one
receptacle. Any new bathroom receptacle outlet shall have ground fault circuit
interrupter protection. All receptacle outlets shall have the appropriate
faceplate cover for the location.
   (C)   Luminaires. Every public hall, interior stairway, toilet room,
kitchen, bathroom, laundry room, boiler room and furnace room shall contain at
least one electric luminaire. Pool and spa luminaries over 15V shall have
ground fault circuit interrupter protection
   (D)   Wiring. Flexible cords shall not be used for permanent wiring, or for
running through doors, windows or cabinets, or concealed within walls, floors
or ceilings.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.41 ELEVATORS, ESCALATORS AND DUMBWAITERS.
   (A)   General. Elevators, dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained in
compliance with ASME A17.1. The most current certificate of inspection shall be
on display at all times within the elevator of attached to the escalator or
dumbwaiter, be available for public inspection in the office of the building
operator or be posted in a publicly conspicuous location approved by the Code
Official. The inspection and tests shall be performed at not less than the
periodic intervals listed in ASME A17.1/CSA B44-2007, except where otherwise
specified by the authority having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Elevators. In buildings equipped with passenger elevators, at least
one elevator shall be maintained in operation at all times when the building is
occupied.
   (C)   Exception. Buildings equipped with only one elevator shall be
permitted to have the elevator temporarily out of service for testing or
servicing.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.42 DUCT SYSTEMS.
   Duct systems shall be maintained free of obstructions and shall be capable
of performing the required function.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.43 FIRE SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope. The provisions of this chapter shall govern the minimum
conditions and standards for fire safety relating to structures and exterior
premises, including fire safety facilities and equipment to be provided.
   (B)   Responsibility. The owner of the premises shall provide and maintain
such fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with these
requirements. A person shall not occupy as owner occupant or permit another
person to occupy any premises that do not comply with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.44 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   (A)   General. A safe, continuous and unobstructed path of travel shall be
provided from any point in a building or structure to the public way. Means of
egress shall comply with the state’s Fire Code.
   (B)   Aisles. The required width of aisles in accordance with the state’s
Fire Code shall be unobstructed.
   (C)   Locked doors. All means of egress doors shall be readily openable from
the side from which egress is to be made without the need for keys, special
knowledge or effort, except where the door hardware conforms to that permitted
by the state’s Building Code.
   (D)   Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall be
maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction,
and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars,
grilles, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency
escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies
with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and such devices
shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool
or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape
and rescue opening.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.45 FIRE RESISTANCE RATINGS.
   (A)   Fire resistance rated assemblies. The required fire resistance rating
of fire-resistance rated walls, fire stops, shaft enclosures, partitions and
floors shall be maintained.
   (B)   Opening protectives. Required opening protectives shall be maintained
in an operative condition. All fire and smoke stop doors shall be maintained in
operable condition. Fire doors and smoke barrier doors shall not be blocked or
obstructed or otherwise made inoperable.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
§ 17.46 FIRE PROTECTION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General. All systems, devices and equipment to detect a fire, actuate
an alarm, or suppress or control a fire or any combination thereof shall be
maintained in an operable condition at all times in accordance with the state’s
Fire Code.
   (B)   Automatic sprinkler systems. Inspection, testing and maintenance of
automatic sprinkler systems shall be in accordance with NFPA 25.
   (C)   Smoke alarms. Single or multiple station smoke alarms shall be
installed and maintained in Groups R2, R3, R4 and in dwellings not regulated in
Group R occupancies, regardless of occupant load at all of the following
locations:
      (1)   On the ceiling or wall outside of each separate sleeping area in
the immediate vicinity of
bedrooms;
      (2)   In each room used for sleeping purposes; and
      (3)   In each story within a dwelling unit, including basements and
cellars but not including crawl spaces and uninhabitable attics. In dwellings
or dwelling units with split levels and without an intervening door between the
adjacent levels, a smoke alarm installed on the upper level shall suffice for
the adjacent lower level; provided that, the lower level is less than one full
story below the upper level.
   (D)   Installation. Single or multiple station smoke alarms shall be
installed in other groups in accordance with the state’s Fire Code.
   (E)   Power source. In Group R occupancies and in dwellings not regulated as
Group R occupancies, single station smoke alarms shall receive their primary
power from the building wiring provided that such wiring is served from a
commercial source and shall be equipped with a battery backup. Smoke alarms
shall emit a signal when the batteries are low. Wiring shall be permanent and
without a disconnecting switch other than as required for overcurrent
protection.
   (F)   Exception. Smoke alarms are permitted to be solely battery operated in
buildings where no construction is taking place, buildings that are not served
from a commercial power source and in existing areas of buildings undergoing
alterations or repairs that do not result in the removal of interior wall or
ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an attic, crawl space
or basement available which could provide access for building wiring without
the removal of interior finishes. Where smoke or carbon monoxide alarms are
permitted to be solely battery operated in any single rental unit or multiple
residential building, they shall be tamper resistant with a ten-year sealed
lithium non-removable battery, with the expiration date permanently marked and
clearly legible on the outside visible from floor level.
   (G)   Interconnection. Where more than one smoke alarm is required to be
installed within an individual dwelling unit in Group R2, R3, R4, and in
dwellings not regulated as Group R occupancies, the smoke alarms shall be
interconnected in such a manner that the activation of one alarm will activate
all of the alarms in the individual unit. The alarm shall be clearly audible in
all bedrooms over background noise levels with all intervening doors closed.
   (H)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Interconnection is not required in buildings which are not
undergoing alterations, repairs or construction of any kind.
      (2)   Smoke alarms in existing areas are not required to be
interconnected where alterations or repairs do not result in the removal of
interior wall or ceiling finishes exposing the structure, unless there is an
attic, crawl space or basement available which could provide access for
interconnection without the removal of interior finishes.
(Adopted 10-11-2016)
APPENDIX A: BOARDING STANDARD
   The provisions contained in this appendix are not mandatory unless
specifically referenced in this chapter.
   (A)   General. All windows and doors shall be boarded in an approved manner
to prevent entry by unauthorized persons and shall be painted to correspond to
the color of the existing structure.
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Boarding sheet material. Boarding sheet material shall be minimum
one-half inch (12.7 mm) thick wood structural panels complying with the state’s
Building Code.
      (2)   Boarding framing material. Boarding framing material shall be
minimum nominal two-inch by four-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) solid sawn lumber
complying with the state’s Building Code.
      (3)   Boarding fasteners. Boarding fasteners shall be minimum three-
eighths inch (9.5 mm) diameter carriage bolts of such a length as required to
penetrate the assembly and as required to adequately attach the washers and
nuts. Washers and nuts shall comply with the state’s Building Code.
   (C)   Installation.
      (1)   Boarding installation. The boarding installation shall be in
accordance with Figures A 103.1(1) and A 103.1(2) and division (B) above and
this division (C).
      (2)   Boarding sheet material. The boarding sheet material shall be cut
to fit the door or window opening neatly or shall be cut to provide an equal
overlap at the perimeter of the door or window.
      (3)   Windows. The window shall be opened to allow the carriage bolt to
pass through or the window sash shall be removed and stored. The two-inch by
four-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) strong back framing material shall be cut minimum
two inches (51 mm) wider than the window opening and shall be placed on the
inside of the window opening six inches minimum above the bottom and below the
top of the window opening. The framing and boarding shall be pre-drilled. The
assembly shall be aligned and the bolts, washers and nuts shall be installed
and secured.
      (4)   Door walls. The door opening shall be framed with minimum two-inch
by four-inch (51 mm by 102 mm) framing material secured at the entire perimeter
and vertical members at a maximum of 24 inches (610 mm) on center. Blocking
shall also be secured at a maximum of 48 inches (1,219 mm) on center
vertically. Boarding sheet material shall be secured with screws and nails
alternating every six inches (152 mm) on center.
      (5)   Doors. Doors shall be secured by the same method as for windows or
door openings. One door to the structure shall be available for authorized
entry and shall be secured and locked in an approved manner.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6222ef57f89b26df90b91fa2c5273a30eedb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-949.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/70e6222ef57f89b26df90b91fa2c5273a30eedb1/
IMAGES/0-0-0-951.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 18: VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION
Section
   
18.01   Purpose and findings
   
18.02   Definitions
   
18.03   Vacant building registration requirement
   
18.04   Change of ownership
   
18.05   Inspections
   
18.06   Maintenance of vacant buildings
   
18.07   No occupancy or trespass
   
18.08   Vandalism or removal of items prohibited
   
18.09   Appeal
   
18.99   Penalties
§ 18.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council is enacting this chapter to help protect the public
health, safety and welfare by establishing a program for the identification and
regulation of vacant buildings within the city. This chapter also determines
the responsibilities of owners of vacant buildings and provides for
administration, enforcement, and penalties associated with same.
   (B)   The City Council finds that vacant buildings are a major cause and
source of blight in residential and nonresidential neighborhoods, especially
when the owner or responsible party of the building fails to actively maintain
and manage the building to ensure it does not become a liability to the
neighborhood. Neglect of vacant buildings, as well as use of vacant buildings
by transients and squatters, creates a risk of fire, explosion or flooding for
the vacant building and adjacent properties.
   (C)   Pursuant to authority provided in M.S. § 463.26, permitting cities to
enact and enforce ordinances on hazardous buildings, and in order to enhance
the livability and preserve the tax base and property values of buildings
within the city, and because of the need to assure that buildings which are
capable of rehabilitation are promptly rehabilitated and buildings which are
not capable of rehabilitation be promptly demolished, the city hereby declared
that it is the policy of the city to promote rehabilitation of vacant and
unoccupied buildings, and to assure a prompt process for demolition of
hazardous buildings through a procedure fixing appropriate responsibility in
accordance with due process requirements.
   (D)   Vacant properties often are used as dumping grounds for junk and
debris and often are overgrown with weeds and grass. Vacant buildings that are
boarded to prevent entry by transients and other long-term vacancies discourage
economic development and retard appreciation of property values. There is a
substantial cost to the city for monitoring vacant buildings whether or not
those buildings are boarded. This cost should not be borne by the general
taxpayers of the community; but, rather, these costs should be borne by those
who choose to leave their buildings vacant.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Property that the owner has surrendered, voluntarily
relinquished, disclaimed, or ceded all right, title, claim, and possession,
with the intention of not reclaiming it.
   BUILDING. Any roofed structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
any use or occupancy.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICIAL. City Administrator and the City Administrator’s
designated agents authorized to administer and enforce this chapter.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of record according to St. Louis County property
tax records; those identified as owner or owners on a vacant building
registration form, a holder of an unrecorded contract for deed, a mortgagee or
vendee in possession, a mortgagor or vendor in possession, an assignee of
rents, a receiver, an executor, a trustee, a lessee, other person, firm or
corporation in control of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate
therein. An owner also means any person, partnership, association, corporation
or fiduciary having a legal or equitable title or any interest in the property
or building. This includes any partner, officer or director of any partnership,
corporation, association or other legally constituted business entity. All
owners shall have joint and several obligations for compliance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. An owner, entity or person acting as an agent for the
owner who has direct or indirect control or authority over the building or real
property upon which the building is located; any party having a legal or
equitable interest in the property. Responsible party may include but is not
limited to a realtor, service provider, mortgagor, leasing agent, management
company or similar person or entity.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building is vacant if no person or persons actually and
currently conducts a lawful business or lawfully resides or lives in any part
of the building on a permanent, non-transient basis in accordance with City of
Virginia zoning regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.03 VACANT BUILDING REGISTRATION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Application. The owner or responsible party shall register a vacant
building with the city no later than 30 days after the building becomes vacant.
The registration shall be submitted on a form provided by the city and shall
include the following information supplied by the owner:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number and email address, if
applicable, of each owner and each owner’s representative;
      (2)   The names, addresses, telephone numbers and email addresses, if
applicable, of all known lien holders and all other parties with any legal
interest in the building;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number and email address, if
applicable, of a local agent or person responsible for managing or maintaining
the property;
      (4)   The tax parcel identification number and street address of the
premises on which the building is situated;
      (5)   The date the building became vacant, the period of time the
building is expected to remain vacant, and a property plan and timetable for
returning the building to appropriate occupancy or use and correcting code
violations and nuisances, or for demolition of the building; and
      (6)   The status of water, sewer, natural gas and electric utilities.
      (7)   The owner shall notify the Compliance Official within 30 days of
changes in any of the information supplied as part of the vacant building
registration.
   (B)   Property plan. The property plan identified above in division (A)(5),
shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   General provisions. The plan shall comply with all applicable
regulations and meet the approval of the Compliance Official. It shall contain
a timetable regarding use or demolition of the property. The plan shall be
completed within 30 days after the building is registered.
      (2)   Maintenance of building. The plan shall identify the means and
timetable for addressing all maintenance and nuisance-related items identified
in the application. Any repairs, improvements or alterations to the property
shall comply with building code provisions and applicable city regulations.
      (3)   Plan changes. If the property plan or timetable for the vacant
building is revised in any way for any purpose, the revisions shall meet the
approval of the Compliance Official.
      (4)   Demolition required. If a building has remained vacant for a period
of 365 consecutive days, and the Compliance Official has not approved an
alternative schedule in the property plan, the city may declare the building to
be a nuisance and direct the owner to demolish the building and restore the
grounds. If the owner does not demolish the building and thereby eliminate the
nuisance conditions, the city may commence abatement and cost recovery
proceedings for the abatement of the violation in accordance with §
17.11 of this code and M.S. § 429.101.
   (C)   Non-compliance and notification. If the owner does not comply with the
property plan, or maintain or correct nuisance violations, the city may
commence abatement and recover its costs for correction of those items in
accordance with § 425.25 of this code and M.S. § 429.101. In the case of an
absent owner and ongoing nuisance issues, the city need not provide notice of
each abatement act to the owner. A single notice by the city to the owner is
determined to be sufficient notice that it intends to provide ongoing abatement
until the owner corrects the violations.
   (D)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Fire damage. A building that has suffered fire damage is exempt
from the registration requirement for a period of 90 days after the date of the
fire if the owner submits a request for exemption in writing to the Compliance
Official. An exemption request for review by the Compliance Official shall
include the following information supplied by the owner:
         (a)   A description of the premises;
         (b)   The name and address of owner or owners;
         (c)   A statement of intent to repair and reoccupy the building in an
expeditious manner and the time frame for completion; and
         (d)   Actions the owner will take to ensure the property does not
become a nuisance for the neighborhood.
      (2)   Snowbirds. Those persons who leave their residential buildings on a
temporary basis for vacation purposes or to reside elsewhere during the winter
season and have the intent to return are exempt from the registration
requirement. Requests for “snowbird” exemption will be considered annually with
proper verification.
   (E)   Fees. The owner shall pay an annual registration fee. The registration
fee will be in an amount adopted by resolution by the City Council. The amount
of the registration fee shall be reasonably related to the administrative costs
for registering and processing the registration form and for the costs of the
city in monitoring the vacant building site. The fee shall be paid in full
prior to the issuance of any building permits or licenses, with the exception
of a demolition permit.
   (F)   Waiver of fees. The city may waive the registration fee if the owner
or responsible party has paid all past due registration fees and all other
financial obligations and debts owed to the city that are associated with the
vacant property and demonstrates, to the satisfaction of the Compliance
Official that:
      (1)   The property is re-occupied, with the exception of demolition,
within a period of time deemed reasonable to the Compliance Official; and
either
      (2)   (a)   The owner or responsible party is in the process of
demolition, rehabilitation, or other substantial repair of the vacant building;
or
         (b)   The owner or responsible party has a plan for the demolition,
rehabilitation, or other substantial repair of the vacant building in a period
of time that is deemed reasonable to the Compliance Official.
   (G)   Assessment. If the registration fee or any portion is not paid within
60 days after billing or within 60 days after any appeal becomes final, the
City Council may certify the unpaid fees against the property in accordance
with M.S. § 429.101.
   (H)   Issuance of registration. Upon completion of the registration process
and payment of the fee, the city will issue a vacant building registration to
the owner. The owner shall securely post the registration on the vacant
building on a side entrance door, where possible, that is not generally visible
from the public street. If no side entrance door is available, the registration
shall be securely posted on another available entrance door.
   (I)   Failure to register. If the property is abandoned or the owner or
responsible party fails to complete the registration process, the property will
be administratively registered as a vacant property.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.04 CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   A new owner(s) shall register or re-register a vacant building in
accordance with §
18.03 within 15 days of any transfer of an ownership interest in a vacant
building.
   (B)   The new owner(s) shall comply with the approved property plan and
timetable submitted by the previous owner or shall submit any changes proposed
to the property plan to the Compliance Official for review and approval as
required by §
18.03 of this chapter.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, a new owner is an “owner” as defined
in §
18.02 who has purchased the vacant building since its registration by the
previous owner and has succeeded to all rights of that previous owner.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Compliance Official may inspect any vacant building in the city
for the purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance with this section and
other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Upon the request of the Compliance Official, an owner or responsible
party shall provide access to all interior portions of the building and the
exterior of the property in order to complete an inspection.
   (C)   If the owner or responsible party is not available, is unresponsive,
or refuses to provide access to the interior of the building, the city may use
any legal means to gain entrance to the building for inspection purposes.
   (D)   Prior to any reoccupancy, the owner or responsible party shall request
an inspection of the vacant building by the Compliance Official to determine
compliance with Chapter 17 of this code and all other applicable regulations.
   (E)   All application and reinspection fees also shall be paid prior to
building occupancy.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.06 MAINTENANCE OF VACANT BUILDINGS. 
   The owner shall comply with and address the following items in the property
plan, as described in § 435.05, subd. 2:
   (A)   Appearance. All vacant buildings shall be so maintained and kept that
they appear to be occupied.
   (B)   Securing. All vacant buildings shall be secured from outside entry by
unauthorized persons or pests. Security shall be ensured by normal building
amenities such as windows and doors having adequate strength to resist
intrusion. All doors and windows shall remain locked. There shall be at least
one operable door into every building and into each dwelling unit. Exterior
walls and roofs shall remain intact without holes.
      (1)   Architectural (cosmetic) structural panels. Architectural
structural panels may be used to secure windows, doors and other openings
provided they are cut to fit the opening and match the characteristics of the
building. Architectural panels may be of exterior grade-finished plywood or
Medium Density Overlaid plywood (MDO) that is painted to match the building
exterior or covered with a reflective material such as plexi-glass to simulate
windows.
      (2)   Temporary securing. Untreated, exterior grade (CDX) plywood or
similar structural panels may be used to secure windows, doors and other
openings for a maximum period of 90 days. See
Chapter 17, Appendix A, for boarding specifications.
      (3)   “Artistic” board-up. With prior approval of the Compliance
Official, artistic options may be utilized to secure a vacant building.
      (4)   Emergency securing. The Compliance Official may take immediate
steps to secure a vacant building at their discretion in emergency
circumstances
   (C)   Fire safety.
      (1)   Fire protection systems. Owners of nonresidential vacant buildings
shall maintain all fire protection systems, appliances and assemblies in
operating condition and maintain Underwriter Laboratories (UL) monitoring of
all systems.
      (2)   Removal of hazardous and combustible materials. The owner of any
vacant building, or vacant portion thereof, shall remove all hazardous material
and hazardous refuse that could constitute a fire hazard or contribute to the
spread of fire.
   (D)   Plumbing fixtures. Plumbing fixtures connected to an approved water
system, an approved sewage system, or an approved natural gas utility system
shall be installed in accordance with applicable codes and be maintained in
sound condition and good repair or removed and the service terminated in the
manner prescribed by applicable codes. The building’s water systems shall be
protected from freezing.
   (E)   Electrical. Electrical service lines, wiring, outlets or fixtures not
installed or maintained in accordance with applicable codes shall be repaired,
removed or the electrical services terminated to the building in accordance
with applicable codes.
   (F)   Lighting. All exterior lighting fixtures shall be maintained in good
repair, and illumination shall be provided to the building and all walkways in
the same manner as provided at the time the building was last occupied or as
otherwise provided in the approved vacant building plan.
   (G)   Heating. Heating facilities or heating equipment in vacant buildings
shall be removed, rendered inoperable, or maintained in accordance with
applicable codes.
   (H)   Termination of utilities. The Compliance Official may require that
water, sewer, electricity, or gas service to the vacant building be terminated
or disconnected. Prior to the termination of any utility service, the city will
provide written notice to the owner. No utility may be restored until consent
is given by the Compliance Official. Utilities may be discontinued at the
request of the owner or responsible party as part of the approved vacant
building property plan. The Compliance Official may authorize immediate
termination of utilities at their discretion in emergency circumstances and
provide subsequent notice to the owner or responsible party.
   (I)   Signs. Obsolete or unused exterior signs and installation hardware
shall be removed. Holes and penetrations shall be properly patched and painted
to match the building. Surfaces beneath the signs that do not match the
building shall be repaired, resurfaced, painted or otherwise altered to be
compatible with the building surfaces. All signs shall be maintained in good
condition and comply with the provisions of § 18X of this code.
   (J)   Exterior maintenance. The owner shall comply with all applicable
property maintenance regulations and city codes including, but not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Nuisances. The owner shall eliminate any activity on the property
that constitutes a nuisance as defined by
Chapter 10 and
Chapter 17 of this code.
      (2)   Grass and weeds. Any weeds or grass shall be maintained at a height
of no greater than six inches and in accordance with
Chapter 10 of this code.
   (K)   Exterior structure maintenance. The owner shall maintain the vacant
building in compliance with §
17.17 as determined to be necessary by the Code Official.
   (L)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The owner shall keep the property free of
unlicensed, inoperable, abandoned or junked vehicles as per §
17.17. The city may cause such vehicles to be removed.
   (M)   Storage and disposal of refuse. The storage and disposal of refuse
shall comply with the requirements of §
10.01 of this code.
   (N)   Animals. The owner shall ensure that all animals, including domestic,
exotic and feral, are removed from the property and handled in a humane manner
as per §
10.10 of this code.
   (O)   Diseased, dead or hazardous trees. The owner shall remove diseased,
dead or hazardous trees or branches from the property in accordance with §
17.17 of this code.
   (P)   Graffiti. The owner shall remove all graffiti from the property in
accordance with §
17.17 of this code.
   (Q)   Abandoned pools. Swimming pools shall be covered and secured to
prevent accidental entry, treated to prevent pest harborage, and properly
drained and winterized as per §
17.17 of this code.
   (R)   Removal of garbage and refuse. The owner of any vacant building or
vacant portion thereof shall keep the building and property free of all
garbage, refuse, litter, rubbish, swill, filth, or other materials identified
in §§
10.30 and
11.41 of this code.
   (S)   Police protection systems. All alarm systems in any vacant building or
portion thereof shall be maintained in operating condition.
   (T)   Loitering, criminal activities. Loitering or engaging in criminal
activities is prohibited in the vacant building or on the real property upon
which the vacant building is located. The owner or responsible party shall not
allow these activities and shall take immediate actions to eliminate these
conditions upon notification by the city or upon discovery.
   (U)   Emergency abatement. The Compliance Official may authorize immediate
abatement of any public nuisance or correction of any maintenance item if the
Compliance Official determines that conditions exist that present an imminent
threat to the public health and safety in accordance with §
17.17 of this code,
   (V)   Other codes. The property owner or responsible party shall comply with
all other city codes and applicable regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.07 NO OCCUPANCY OR TRESPASS.
   No person may trespass, occupy or reside, on a temporary or permanent basis,
in any vacant building, registered or not, without the owner’s consent.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.08 VANDALISM OR REMOVAL OF ITEMS PROHIBITED.
   No person may vandalize or remove items from a vacant building or the
property upon which it is located, including, but not limited to, appliances,
fixtures, electrical wiring, copper, or other similar items without the owner’s
consent.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.09 APPEAL.
   Any person or responsible party aggrieved by a decision rendered under this
chapter may appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall made be in writing,
shall specify the grounds for the appeal, and shall be submitted to the City
Administrator within ten business days of the decision that is basis of the
appeal.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
§ 18.99 PENALTIES.
   Any person or responsible party who violates the provisions of this chapter
is subject to penalty as provided under §
17.07 of this code. Nothing in this chapter, however, is deemed to impair other
remedies or civil penalties available to the city under this code or state law,
including, but not limited to, M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.261.
(Ord. passed 10-22-2019)
CHAPTER 19: RESERVED
CHAPTER 20: MISCELLANEOUS ORDINANCES
Section
   
I.   Listing of Uncodified Ordinances in Effect
   
II.   Grant of Railroad Rights-of-Way
   
III.   Naming and Renaming Streets
   
IV.   East Mesaba Sanitary Disposal Authority
   
V.   Biosolids Disposal Site Authority Ordinance of the Cities of Virginia,
Eveleth, Mountain Iron and Gilbert
   
VI.   Charter Amendments
   
VII.   Grant of Cable TV Franchise
I. LISTING OF UNCODIFIED ORDINANCES IN EFFECT.
   (A)   All ordinances described in this chapter remain in effect after
adoption of the city code. They are of a permanent and continuing nature as
authority for a specific act which has been performed. These ordinances are of
two types, that generally distinguish them from other provisions of the city
code, either:
      (1)   Their texts have no continuing reference value; or
      (2)   They are in the nature of a contract and of only occasional
reference value.
   (B)   For these reasons, it appears justified to list and describe them here
only to facilitate finding them in the event this becomes necessary.
II. GRANT OF RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
Ord. No. Date of Adoption Grantee
Ord. No. Date of Adoption Grantee
35       2-7-1905         Eastern Railway Company
36       6-20-1911        Duluth, Winnipeg & Pacific Railroad Company (formerly
                          Ord. 120)
37       3-19-1929        Duluth, Winnipeg & Pacific Railroad Company
38       10-8-1918        Duluth, Winnipeg & Pacific Railroad Company
39       4-5-1921         Duluth, Winnipeg & Pacific Railroad Company
40       6-13-1922        Duluth, Winnipeg & Pacific Railroad Company
41       3-25-1907        Duluth, Missabe & Northern Railroad Company
42       7-20-1909        Duluth, Missabe & Northern Railroad Company
 
III. NAMING AND RENAMING STREETS.
 
Ord. No. Date of Adoption Change
47       5-16-1916        Changes the names and numbers of streets and avenues
                          in the city
84       1-11-1955        Names Second and One-Half Street
 
IV. EAST MESABA SANITARY DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   Ord. 103, adopted 4-16-1971, created a joint sanitary disposal authority to
be known as the East Mesaba Sanitary Disposal Authority by the city and other
communities.
V. BIOSOLIDS DISPOSAL SITE AUTHORITY ORDINANCE OF THE CITIES OF VIRGINIA,
EVELETH, MOUNTAIN IRON AND GILBERT.
“CITY OF VIRGINIA
ORDINANCE NO. 103A
An Ordinance Providing for the Creation of the Biosolids Disposal Site
Authority by the City of Virginia and Other Communities and Providing for the
Maintenance, Operation and Regulation of a Sanitary Disposal System for Said
Communities
The City Council of the City of Virginia does ordain as:
SECTION 20.01 BIOSOLIDS DISPOSAL SITE AUTHORITY. There is hereby created,
pursuant to provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Section 471.58 and Acts
amendatory thereof, a joint sanitary disposal authority to be known as the
Biosolids Disposal Site Authority. The Authority shall be composed of one
member representing each of the participating municipalities, which member
shall be appointed by a majority vote of the governing body. The members of the
Authority shall serve without compensation except for the Secretary-Treasurer.
SECTION 20.02 TERM OF OFFICE. The members of the first Authority shall be
appointed as follows:
   One member shall be appointed by the governing body of the City of Mt. Iron
for a term expiring on the first Monday in January, 1991;
   One member shall be appointed by the governing body of the City of Eveleth
for a term expiring on the first Monday in January, 1992;
   One member shall be appointed by the governing body of the City of Gilbert
for a term expiring on the first Monday in January, 1993; and
   One member shall be appointed by the governing body of the City of Virginia
for a term expiring on the first Monday in January, 1994.
   Thereafter, each community wherein a vacancy exists shall appoint one member
for a term of four (4) years. All members shall serve until their successors
are appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy, the municipality
wherein such vacancy occurs shall appoint a replacement who shall serve for the
balance of the term of the replaced member.
   Each municipality may appoint an alternate member who may attend all
meetings of the Authority. He may participate in all discussions and may vote
only in the absence of the regular member from his municipality.
   All members currently on the East Mesaba Sanitary Disposal Authority shall
be members of the Biosolids Disposal Site Authority until the Council of the
community appoints a new member.
SECTION 20.03 OFFICERS. The Joint Authority shall elect one of its members to
be Chairman of the Authority, one member to be Vice Chairman and shall appoint
a Secretary-Treasurer who may, but need not be, a member of the Authority. Each
such appointee shall hold office for the term of one year and until his
successor is appointed and qualified.
SECTION 20.04 DUTIES AND POWERS. The Authority shall have full authority and
responsibility for the establishment, maintenance and regulation of the
Biosolids Disposal Site Authority. In carrying out such authority, it shall
have all of the powers and authority vested in the municipalities under the
laws of the State of Minnesota relating to the establishment, operation and
regulation of a sanitary disposal system.
   Without limiting its general powers vested in it by law, it shall have the
following powers:
      (a)   To acquire, by purchase, lease, gift or otherwise, property for,
and to establish, construct, enlarge, improve, maintain, equip, operate and
regulate a biosolids site, and to accomplish these purposes to apply for and
receive federal and state grants;
      (b)   To gather information on the problem of collection and disposal of
biosolids insofar as the members are concerned and on the best means of meeting
said problem and to disseminate such information;
      (c)   To employ qualified engineers or other experts to prepare and
submit studies and reports on said problem and proposed solutions thereof;
      (d)   To employ legal counsel and administrative and clerical personnel
as necessary;
      (e)   To secure appraisals of real property;
      (f)   To expend monies and incur liabilities for such purposes;
      (g)   To define its procedure, including the appointment of committees of
less than all the members;
      (h)   To submit findings and recommendations to the member
municipalities;
      (i)   To award contracts upon proper bid for the performance of any of
the authorized services of the Authority;
      (j)   To adopt such rules and regulations for the operation of the sludge
disposal site as they shall, in their discretion, deem necessary and advisable,
and to establish a penalty for violation thereof;
      (k)   To establish the procedures for new communities to join the
Authority.
SECTION 20.05 CONTRIBUTIONS TO CAPITAL AND OPERATION COST. Costs incurred in
the establishment, operation and maintenance of said biosolids disposal site
shall be divided among the participating municipalities on a per capita basis.
The first fiscal year shall be financed by the transfer of funds from the East
Mesaba Sanitary Disposal Authority. These are the unspent funds that were
appropriated to the East Mesaba Sanitary Disposal Authority by the Cities of
Eveleth, Gilbert, Mt. Iron and Virginia for the purpose of operating the sludge
disposal site. Title to any lands acquired by the Biosolids Authority shall be
transferred to the name of the Authority in trust for the participating
municipalities. Ownership of such purchases shall be divided among the
participating municipalities, in relation to their various populations.
SECTION 20.06 BUDGET. On or before June 1st of each year, the Authority shall
prepare a budget for financing the operations of the Authority for the ensuing
calendar year. A copy of the budget shall, not later than September 1, be
furnished to the governing boards of the participating municipalities. Such
budget shall include an estimation of all income and their sources, as well as
an itemized budget of estimated expenditures. Final decision of the respective
governing bodies, as to requested contributions, shall be reported to the
Authority which shall adjust its budget, if necessary, so that its budget may
at all times be balanced. Money not expended in the budget may be carried over
to the following year.
      The Authority shall not have the power to levy taxes or borrow money and
it shall not approve any claim or incur any obligation for expenditures unless
there is unencumbered cash in the appropriate fund to credit the Authority with
which to pay the same.
SECTION 20.07 FINANCES. All receipts of money shall be deposited in the bank or
banks selected by the Authority and credited to the account of the Biosolids
Site Disposal Authority. No disbursement shall be made except by check in such
manner as the Authority may determine, nor unless a verified claim for services
and commodities actually rendered or delivered be submitted to and approved for
payment by the Authority, and authenticated by the signature of the Chairman
and Secretary-Treasurer. An audit of the funds of the Authority shall be made
annually. Such audits may be made independently or in conjunction with any
audit which may be made of the funds of any of the participating
municipalities. An employee of the Authority who handles cash in the process of
collection shall, if the Authority so requires, furnish a surety bond in such
amount as may be determined by the Authority. The cost of such bond shall be
paid out of Authority funds.
SECTION 20.08 REPORTS. The Authority, as soon as possible, at the end of each
calendar year, shall prepare and present to each municipal council a
comprehensive report of its activities and finances. The Authority shall also
prepare and present federal and state officials with such reports as may be
required by law, regulation or contract.
SECTION 20.09 TERMINATION. This ordinance, when adopted by the City Council of
the City of Virginia, and when concurrent ordinances are adopted by other
participating municipalities, shall constitute a contract between said
municipalities. It shall be in full force and effect for five (5) years
thereafter, provided, however, that the provisions thereof, except as to the
duration of the contract, may be amended by mutual agreement of said
municipalities. Thereafter, it shall continue in force from year to year. By
written notice mailed or delivered to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Authority,
at any time following the initial 5-year period, any member may discontinue
membership in the association at the end of the year in which such notice
given. If upon such termination by one or more of the municipalities, the
expenses of and liabilities of the Authority exceed the sum of the amounts paid
by such members, the member so terminating their membership shall pay to the
Authority their pro-rata share thereof. This agreement shall continue from year
to year so long as at least two members continue to participate. If one of the
last two remaining municipalities desires to terminate the Authority, it shall
notify the other municipality to that effect and the Authority shall proceed
immediately to dispose of all the property which it may have acquired. Upon
such termination, if the expenses and liabilities of the Association exceed the
proceeds received from such sale, the last two remaining municipalities shall
share the deficit on a per capita basis. If upon such termination the assets of
the Association exceed its liabilities, the net proceeds from the sale thereof
shall be divided between these two municipalities on the same per capita basis.
Anyone who ceases to participate in the Authority shall be responsible for
their share of closure costs.
SECTION 20.10 PROVISIONS SEVERABLE. If any provisions of this ordinance shall
be held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the other provisions
hereof which can be given effect without the invalid provisions and, to that
end, the provision of this ordinance are declared to be severable.
SECTION 20.11 REPEAL. All ordinances and parts of ordinances inconsistent with
the provisions of this ordinance are hereby repealed.
SECTION 20.12. This ordinance shall take effect and be in force from and after
its passage and publication by all participating municipalities.”
(Adopted 3-22-1990; amended 2-24-1998)
VI. CHARTER AMENDMENTS.
   City Charter revised and amended 11-2-1993.
VII. GRANT OF CABLE TV FRANCHISE.
 
Ord. Date    Description
No.  Adopted
95   12-8-   Grants television signal service and distribution system franchise to
     1964    person or company awarded franchise for a period of ten years
95-A 3-15-   Amends Ord. 95, § 21, entitled “Application and License Fee”
     1966
95-B 6-20-   Amends Ord. 95, § 1, entitled “Grant of Authority”, and Ord. 95-A, § 21,
     1967    entitled “Application and License Fee”
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section            Code Section
12.25                   16.01
12.37                   16.06
Ch. 13                  6.44
14.57 to 14.70          5.36,
                        5.99
65B.472                 6.44
84.86                   8.05
86B.005                 8.07
115.01                  3.40
115.07                  3.40
138.17                  3.05
144.391                 6.33
144.411 through 144.417 6.33
157.16                  5.03
157.16, subd. 3(d)      5.03
                        2.50,
Ch. 168                 Ch. 8,
                        8.01
168.002, subd. 2        8.05
168B.011, subd. 3       10.37
168B.035, subd. 3(B)(1) 7.15
                        2.50,
                        7.01,
Ch. 169                 Ch. 8,
                        8.01,
                        10.34
169.46 through 169.75   6.44
169.832 through 169.851 8.02
Ch. 171                 Ch. 8,
                        8.01
174.29 et seq.          6.01
174.40                  12.02
216D.01 through 216D.09 3.05
237.163, subd. (b)      3.05
Ch. 238                 3.05
260A.04                 10.14
260B.007                10.14
260C.007                10.14
270.0725                6.42
270A                    2.55
270C                    2.55
289A                    2.55
297A                    2.55
297F.01                 6.33
297F.01, subd. 3        6.33
299C.67, subd. 2        6.44
299F.011                10.31
300.06                  3.05
Ch. 303                 2.31
303.06                  6.39
303.17(3)               2.31
303.17(4)               2.31
303.20                  2.31
Ch. 308A                3.05
Ch. 325J                6.39
325J.04, subd. 2        6.39
Ch. 326B                4.01
Ch. 329                 6.34
333.01                  6.39
                        5.01,
                        5.02,
Ch. 340A                5.20,
                        5.23,
                        5.36,
                        5.99
340A.101                5.03,
                        5.22
340A.301, subd. 6(a)    5.22
340A.301, subd. 6(c)    5.22
340A.301, subd. 6(d)    5.22
340A.301, subd. 6(i)    5.22
340A.301, subd. 6(j)    5.22
340A.301, subd. 7       5.22
340A.301, subd. 7(b)    5.22
340A.4011, subd. 1      5.22 
340A.4011, subd. 1(b)   5.22 
340A.404, subd. 4(a)    5.22 
340A.404, subd. 4(a)    5.22 
340A.404, subd. 5       5.22 
340A.408                5.23
340A.408, subd. 2(b)    5.22
340A.408, subd. 3       5.22
340A.408, subd. 5       5.23
340A.409                5.24
340A.413, subd. 3       5.20
340A.414                5.35
340A.414, subd. 6       5.22
340A.504                5.33
340A.504, subd. 3       5.22
340A.504, subd. 3(b)    5.22
340A.509                5.02
340A.801                5.24
343.31                  10.11
343.40, subd. 2         10.12
346.31                  10.11
346.36, subd. 6         10.11
346.40                  10.11
346.41                  10.11
346.42                  10.11
346.155                 10.11
347.50 to 347.565       10.11
347.51                  10.11
347.515                 10.11
347.52                  10.11
347.52(a), (c)          10.11
347.54                  10.11
360.042                 2.31
363A.01 et seq.         2.32
Ch. 364                 6.44
364.03, subd. 2         6.39
364.03, subd. 3         6.39
412.501 through 412.531 13.02
415.02                  Adopting Ordinance
415.021                 Adopting Ordinance
429.011                 7.06
429.061                 10.37
                        6.46,
429.101                 10.37 ,
                        18.03
437.02                  6.34
444.075                 3.42
461.12                  6.33
462.351 to 462.365      11.01
462.3593                11.30
462.3593, subd. 9       11.30
463.15 through 463.261  18.99
463.26                  18.01
471.59                  14.01
471.633(a)              10.36
477A.018                6.42
518B.01, subd. 2(a)     10.17
609.02                  10.43
609.205(4)              10.11
609.226, subd. 1        10.11
617.80 et seq.          6.46
617.81, subd. 2         6.46
617.85                  6.46
624.711 through 624.717 10.36
624.712, subd. 2        10.36
624.7181                10.36
626.84                  10.11
Ch. 720                 6.01
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      - -         8.05
–      4-11-2017   5.33
–      5-8-2018    2.07
–      5-8-2018    3.20
–      10-23-2018  Adopting Ordinance
–      11-13-2018  16.01—
                     16.09
–      11-27-2018  2.35
–      2-26-2018   2.31
–      7-9-2019    2.55
–      8-27-2019   10.31
–      10-22-2019  3.42
–      10-22-2019  6.46
                     18.01—
–      10-22-2019  18.09,
                     18.99
–      9-8-2020    2.31
                     5.14,
–      9-22-2020   5.36,
                     5.99
–      11-24-2020  6.33
–      3-23-2021   7.15
–      7-26-2022   3.05
–      12-13-2022  2.58
–      12-13-2022  10.18
-        2-14-2023   6.42
-        4-11-2023   10.39 —
                     10.43
-        7-25-2023   8.07
-        8-22-2023   6.40
-        9-26-2023   6.33
-        2-27-2024   10.19
-        2-27-2024   12.02,
                     12.50
-        5-14-2024   4.09
-        6-25-2024   11.61
-        8-13-2024   11.30
                    
 
