WABASHA, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Contains 2025 S-7 Supplement, current through
Ordinance passed 8-5-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO.
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF WABASHA, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS M.S. §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause its ordinances
to be codified and printed in a book, now therefore:
The City Council of Wabasha, Minnesota ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Wabasha. This Code of Ordinances also adopts,
by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
   Title I: General Provisions
   Title III: Administration
   Title V: Public Works
   Title VII: Traffic Code
   Title IX: General Regulations
   Title XI: Business Regulations
   Title XIII: General Offenses
   Title XV: Land Usage
Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to subjects treated in the Code of
Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this
ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part in
the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching territory;
establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances, or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city's official newspaper. The City Clerk shall cause a, substantial quantity
of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to the public
at actual cost, and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to the
County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this Code
of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
city's official newspaper.
Passed by the City Council of Wabasha, Minnesota this 5th day of November,
2019.
 
/s/ Mayor
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ City Clerk
City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Wabasha City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of the city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.
      (1)   Statutory. For purposes of this code, the terms defined in M.S. §§
645.44 and 645.45, as they may be amended from time to time, have the meanings
given them by those sections; and terms defined by statutes, rules or
regulations, and ordinances adopted by reference have the meanings given them
therein.
(Prior Code, § 105.03)
      (2)   Definitions; internal. Terms defined in other sections of this code
have the meanings given them by those sections.
(Prior Code, § 105.05)
      (3)   Statutory rules. It is the intent of the City Council that the
rules and canons of construction, presumptions and miscellaneous provisions
relating to statutory construction contained in M.S. Ch. 645, as it may be
amended from time to time, apply to this code and govern its interpretation,
and that all questions of meaning, construction and interpretation of this code
be resolved by application of the rules contained in M.S. Ch. 645, as it may be
amended from time to time. The provisions of M.S. Ch. 645, as it may be amended
from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and are as much a part of
this code as if fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 105.09)
      (4)   General definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Wabasha.
         CITY. The City of Wabasha, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in this
code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
         CLERK. The Wabasha City Clerk.
         CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
         COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Wabasha.
         COUNTY. The County of Wabasha, Minnesota.
         HEALTH AUTHORITY. The Health Officer.
         MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
         MAYOR. The Wabasha City Mayor.
         MONTH. A calendar month.
         OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
         OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer,
office, employee, commission or department of the city unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
         OWNER. In the case of personal property, a person, other than a
lienholder, having the property in or title to personal property. In the case
of real property, the term means the fee owner of land or the beneficial owner
of land whose interest is primarily one of possession and enjoyment in
contemplation of ultimate ownership. The term includes, but is not limited to,
vendees under a contract for deed and mortgagors.
         PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof and, as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
         PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
         SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
         SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot
write.
         STATE. The State of Minnesota.
         SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
         UTILITIES COMMISSION. The Water, Light and Power Commission.
         WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
         YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 105.01)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.
   (B)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Statute or administrative rules or regulations
of the state, codes and ordinances adopted by reference in this code are
adopted pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 471.62, as it may be amended
from time to time. At least one copy of any item so adopted, but not less than
the number of copies required by law, shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk for use by the public.
(Prior Code, § 100.05)
   (B)   Official statutes. References to “Minnesota Statutes” are to Minnesota
Statutes 2018, unless otherwise provided in this code. References to rules and
regulations of state agencies, codes and ordinances of other municipalities are
to those documents in effect on the effective date of this code unless
otherwise provided.
(Prior Code, § 100.07)
   (C)   Relation to state law. It is the intent of the City Council that the
provisions of this code are the fullest exercise of the regulatory and other
powers granted to it by state law and the City Charter. When this code imposes
a more stringent rule or standard of conduct than contained in similar
provisions of state law, rule or regulation, it is the intent of the Council
that the provisions of this code prevail over state law, rule or regulation to
the extent permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 100.09)
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, the County
Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any provision
of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer or employee
only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce
these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance
to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits,
licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property, stating
the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to
appeal of the Clerk’s decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. Administrative offense procedures established
pursuant to this section are intended to provide the public and the city with
an informal, cost effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal
charges for violations of certain city code provisions. The procedures are
intended to be voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with
administrative offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative
penalty, as is provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from
participation in the procedures, in which event, the city may bring criminal
charges in accordance with the law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may
choose not to initiate an administrative offense and may bring criminal charges
in the first instance. In the event a party participates in the administrative
offense procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty which may be imposed,
the city may bring criminal charges in the district court, and seek to collect
the cost of the administrative offense procedures as part of a subsequent
criminal sentence, in the event the party is charged and is adjudicated guilty
of the criminal violation.
(Prior Code, § 1202.01)
   (B)   “Administrative offense” defined. An ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE is a
violation of a provision of the city code and is subject to the administrative
penalties set forth in the schedule of offenses and penalties referred to in
division (G) below.
(Prior Code, § 1202.02)
   (C)   Notice. Any officer of the city, the Police Department or any other
person employed by the city, authorized by the Police Chief, and having
authority to enforce the city code, shall, upon determining that there has been
a violation, notify the violator, in writing. The notice shall set forth the
nature, date and time of the violation, the name of the official issuing the
notice and the amount of the scheduled penalty.
(Prior Code, § 1202.03)
   (D)   Payment. Once notice is given, the alleged violator may, within 15
days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the amount set forth on the
schedule of penalties for the violation. The penalty may be paid in person, or
by mail, and payment shall be deemed an admission of the violation. In such
case, no criminal proceeding shall be brought against the violator in district
court.
(Prior Code, § 1202.04)
   (E)   Failure to pay. In the event a party charged with an administrative
offense fails to pay the penalty, charges may be brought against the alleged
violator in accordance with applicable statutes and city code in the district
court.
(Prior Code, § 1202.05)
   (F)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be paid to the city and deposited into the General Fund.
(Prior Code, § 1202.06)
   (G)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses which may be charged as
administrative offenses and the penalties for these offenses shall be
determined by City Council resolution.
 
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE
(non-criminal code violation)
State of Minnesota - City of Wabasha
The undersigned states:
On the                     day of                                                        , 20                , at                  hours
Name                                                                                                                                                               
Address                                                      Apt. No.          City                 State        Zip Code             
If juvenile, Name of Parent or Guardian                                                                       Phone                              
Driver License No.                                         Height            Weight           Sex          D.O.B.            
License No.                                          20             State         Make                     Model                    
Location of Offense                                                                                                                                            
Located in the City of Wabasha, State of Minnesota, did commit the following offense:
Offense                        Code Section                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Penalty
[] Dog Running At Large       90.30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $60
[] No Dog/Cat License         90.02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $60
[] Parking Violation          71.15-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $25
                               71.27
[] Snowmobiles/ATV            Ch. 72                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $50
[] Curfew Violation           Ch. 132                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $50
[] Public Consumption         111.05                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $125
[] Public Nuisances           91.15-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $100
                               91.20
[] Failure to Obtain Building Ch. 150                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $150
Permit
[] Violation of Building      Ch. 150                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $150
Permit
[] Violation of Subdivision   Ch. 161                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $150
Ordinance
[] Sign Ordinance Violation   Ch. 153                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $150
[] Violation of Floodplain    Ch. 160                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $150
Ordinance
[] Violation of Shoreland     Ch. 162                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $150
Ordinance
[] Violation of Weed Ordinance91.35-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $75
                               91.38
[] Violation of Snow Removal  -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $50
Ordinance
[] Illegal Use of Firearms    131.01-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $75
                               131.03
[] Parks Regulation Violation 93.01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $50
[] Speeding                   -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $90
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $180
[] Stop Sign Violation        -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $110
[] Seatbelt Violation         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $75
[] Unreasonable Acceleration  71.01                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $90
[] Driving After Suspension   70.07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $100
[] Driving After Cancellation 70.07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $100
[] Driving After Revocation   70.07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $100
[] No Minnesota Driver’s    70.07                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        $100
License
[] Disorderly Conduct         130.15                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $100
[] Issuance of Worthless Check-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $75
[] Trespass                   -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $75
[] Illegal Gambling           114.40-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      $100
                               114.51
[] Obscenity Ordinance         Ch.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          $100
Violation                      133
[] Motorized Golf Cars         72.01-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       $100
                               72.06
[] Unlawful Smoking            -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $50
[] Expired plates/tabs         -                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            $80
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Badge #                                                         
 
READ CAREFULLY
You have the right to an administrative hearing if you wish to contest the
ticket. Please contact the police administrative offices at (651) 565-3261
within seven days of the date of the violation to schedule a hearing. If you
wish to admit to the administrative offense on the reverse of this notice, you
must, within 15 days of its issuance, mail or bring this penalty set forth
above, together with this notice, to the Wabasha Police Department.
 
FAILURE TO PAY
Failure to pay the penalty imposed may result in the issuance of a complaint as authorized by law and the violation shall be processed by the Wabasha County District Court as provided for in Minnesota Statutes.
I understand that I have the right to an administrative hearing and that by paying this penalty I am admitting to an administrative offense and am waiving that right.
                                                                                                                                               
Signature         Address                     Date
 
MAKE CHECKS PAYABLE TO
City of Wabasha (a charge of up to $25 will be assessed for all returned
checks). Send check or money order only. DO NOT send cash. (A 5% service fee
charge will be applied for all Visa and MasterCard charges.)
 
MAIL TO
City of Wabasha
900 Hiawatha Drive East
Wabasha, MN 55981
 
DELIVER IN PERSON
900 Hiawatha Drive East
Wabasha, MN 55981
Wabasha Police Department
Phone: (651) 565-3261
 
(Prior Code, § 1202.07)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including state statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98 of this chapter, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with
any provision of this code, the Council or any city official designated by it,
may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct
or abate the violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; POLICIES
      
31.   ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXING
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
CHAPTER 30: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES; POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Employment background checks
   
30.02   License background checks
Mayor and Council Compensation
   
30.15   Amount of salary
   
30.16   Salaries; special meetings and board or commission meetings
   
30.17   Compensation for out of town meetings
Officials
   
30.30   Clerk/Treasurer
   
30.31   City Clerk
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Applicants for city employment; purpose. The purpose and intent of
this section is to establish regulations that will allow law enforcement access
to the state’s computerized criminal history information for specified non-
criminal purposes of employment background checks for the positions described
in division (B) below.
(Prior Code, § 1300.01)
   (B)   Criminal history employment background investigations.
      (1)   The city’s Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive
entity within the city, to do a criminal history background investigation on
the applicants except repeat season part-time employees.
      (2)   (a)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation
in order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized
to access data maintained in the state’s Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
computerized criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy.
         (b)   Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at
the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement
official or his or her designee.
      (3)   A summary of the results of the computerized criminal history data
may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority, including the
City Council, the City Clerk or other city staff involved in the hiring
process.
      (4)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions set forth in
M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject
an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction
unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment sought and
the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
         (d)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
(Prior Code, § 1300.02)
(Ord. 1300, passed 8-7-2012)
§ 30.02 LICENSE BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history license background investigations.
      (1)   The city’s Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive
entity within the city, to do a criminal history background investigation on
the applicants for the following licenses within the city: city licenses:
(e.g., employees of liquor establishments, peddler licenses and the like):
         (a)   All liquor license applicants; and
         (b)   All transient merchant license applicants.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the state’s Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
computerized criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal
history data may be released by the Police Department to the licensing
authority, including the City Council, the City Clerk or other city staff
involved the license approval process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions set forth in
M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject
an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction
unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and the conviction
is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the
city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city shall notify the
applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
         (d)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
(Prior Code, § 1301.01) (Ord. 1300, passed 8-7-2012)
MAYOR AND COUNCIL COMPENSATION
§ 30.15 AMOUNT OF SALARY.
   (A)   The salary of the Mayor shall be $3,000 per year and the salary of
each Council person shall be $2,500 per year.
   (B)   The following duties shall be defined as part of the annual salary:
      (1)   All regular scheduled Council meetings (24 per year);
      (2)   Individual meetings with the City Clerk and/or city staff members
reviewing council agendas, concerns or other city action items; and
      (3)   Ground breaking, open houses, dedication ceremonies, public
relations and other invited social functions.
(Prior Code, § 1A.01)
§ 30.16 SALARIES; SPECIAL MEETINGS AND BOARD OR COMMISSION MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor and each Council person shall be paid a minimum of $15 for
the first hour and an additional $12 per hour for each hour thereafter paid in
increments of a quarter hour for attendance at special meetings and those board
and commission meetings that are Council authorized and required to attend due
to being that the board or commission liaison member.
   (B)   The following duties shall fall under this section:
      (1)   Special Council meetings, as scheduled;
      (2)   Council liaison for commission or board meetings;
      (3)   Special commission or board meetings;
      (4)   Council approved committee and/or task force meetings;
      (5)   Board of Review meetings;
      (6)   Budget review meetings;
      (7)   Council retreat; and
      (8)   Special commission or board meeting request to attend the same
night as a regular scheduled Council meeting, but with an earlier or later
start time.
(Prior Code, § 1A.02)
§ 30.17 COMPENSATION FOR OUT OF TOWN MEETINGS.
   The Mayor and each Council person shall be paid $70 per eight-hour day and
$35 per four-hour day for attendance at any meeting, seminar or conference
beyond the city limits, when attendance of the meeting, seminar or conference
is in the performance or furtherance of their duties as an elected official,
and when the nature of the meeting and travel time incident thereto, is such
that the workday is expended in attendance and travel.
(Prior Code, § 1A.03)
OFFICIALS
§ 30.30 CLERK/TREASURER.
   There is hereby created within the city the position of Clerk/Treasurer. The
duties of the Clerk/ Treasurer shall be to perform administrative accounting
and support work involving city government operations, conduct city elections,
act as a back-up to the City Clerk and perform such related duties as are
required by the Council. The position shall be under the general and
administrative direction of the City Clerk and the specific duties of the
position are as defined in the job description hereinafter adopted by the
Council by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 1B.03)
§ 30.31 CITY CLERK.
   There is hereby created within the city the position of City Clerk. The City
Clerk shall be the chief executive officer of the city, performing highly
responsible administrative and supervisory work, coordinating and directing
city government operations and performing related duties as required by the
Council. The City Clerk shall work under the administrative oversight of the
Mayor and the City Council and perform such duties as are defined in the job
description as adopted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1B.05)
CHAPTER 31: ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Street Commission
   
31.001   Establishment
   
31.002   Members
   
31.003   Duties
   
31.004   Personnel
   
31.005   Purchasing
   
31.006   Budgeting
Park Board
   
31.020   Establishment
   
31.021   Powers
   
31.022   Duties
   
31.023   Personnel
   
31.024   Purchases
   
31.025   Rules and regulations
Ambulance Commission
   
31.040   Establishment
   
31.041   Qualification and duties
   
31.042   Vacancies
   
31.043   Quorum
   
31.044   Expenses
   
31.045   Purchases
   
31.046   Function
   
31.047   Retention of powers
   
31.048   Complaints and grievances
   
31.049   Ambulance rates
   
31.050   Ambulance policies
   
31.051   Personnel
   
31.052   Management
   
31.053   Powers, duties, and responsibilities
   
31.054   Meetings
Fire Department
   
31.065   Organization
   
31.066   Ranks
   
31.067   Appointment
   
31.068   Fire Chief
   
31.069   Property
   
31.070   Reports
   
31.071   Members; removal
   
31.072   Fire area
   
31.073   Interference
   
31.074   Compensation
   
31.075   Abolishment of present Department
   
31.076   Charge for fire services
STREET COMMISSION
§ 31.001 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby established in and for the city a commission to be known as
the “Street Commission” of the city, to be constituted and organized as
hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 6A.01) (Ord. passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.002 MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Street Commission for the city shall consist of five persons.
   (B)   Each Commissioner shall be appointed for a two-year term; except that,
vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term only.
   (C)   Each Commissioner shall continue until his or her successor has been
appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 6A.03) (Ord. passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.003 DUTIES.
   The Street Commission shall develop short- and long-term plans for all
streets, alleys, sidewalks and storm sewers in the city and determine and
direct the maintenance of the same and determine and establish the grade of the
streets and sidewalks, the width of the road beds, the grading and surfacing of
the same, the location of drains and ditches, including all crossings and the
proper establishing of the same. It shall further be the duty of the Street
Commission to see that all streets and alleys and sidewalks are kept free from
rubbish and all deposits of refuse and garbage of whatever nature; and, during
the summer, to see that the streets are kept free from weeds; and, in the
winter, that the streets and walks are sufficiently free from snow and ice.
(Prior Code, § 6A.05) (Ord. passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.004 PERSONNEL.
   The Street Commission shall have the authority to hire a Street
Superintendent and other personnel as necessary to carry out the work of the
Commission, subject, however, to the City Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 6A.07) (Ord. passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.005 PURCHASING.
   The Street Commission shall have the authority to purchase necessary
equipment and supplies in carrying out the necessary work of the Commission,
within its budget.
(Prior Code, § 6A.09) (Ord. passed 12-19-2006)
§ 31.006 BUDGETING.
   For the purposes of carrying out of the provisions of this subchapter, the
City Council may appropriate annually out of the resources of the city such
sums of money as it may deem necessary to maintain the street in a proper and
passable condition for travel.
(Prior Code, § 6A.11) (Ord. passed 12-19-2006)
PARK BOARD
§ 31.020 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Park Board for the city is hereby created to be composed of five
members, who shall be qualified residents or are property owners in the city.
They shall be appointed by the Mayor, with consent from Council.
   (B)   When first created, one member shall be appointed for one year, one
for two years and one for three years and, thereafter, each Board member shall
be appointed for a three-year term; except that, vacancies shall be filled for
the unexpired term only.
   (C)   Each Board member shall take the oath prescribed by law before
assuming the duties of his or her office and shall continue in office until his
or her successor has been appointed and qualified.
(Prior Code, § 7B.01) (Ord. passed 3-8-2000; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed
7-2-2018; Ord. passed 2-4-2025)
§ 31.021 POWERS.
   The Park Board is authorized and empowered for and on behalf of and in the
name of the city to acquire, by gift or devise, lands to be held in use for
park and recreational purposes and shall provide for the improvement thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7B.03) (Ord. passed 3-8-2000; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed
7-2-2018)
§ 31.022 DUTIES.
   The Park Board shall have general supervision, management and control of
park and recreational facilities, city campground, city municipal pool and may
appoint suitable persons to care for and take charge and prescribe their
duties, subject to City Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 7B.05) (Ord. passed 3-8-2000; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed
7-2-2018)
§ 31.023 PERSONNEL.
   The Park Board shall be involved in the hiring process of the Public Works
Director and such other personnel as is necessary to carry out the work of the
Park Board, subject, however, to City Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 7B.07) (Ord. passed 3-8-2000; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed
7-2-2018)
§ 31.024 PURCHASES.
   The Park Board shall have authority to purchase necessary equipment and
supplies in carrying out the necessary work of the Park Board, but these
expenditures must follow the city purchasing policy, and must be within the
Public Works’ yearly approved budget.
(Prior Code, § 7B.09) (Ord. passed 3-8-2000; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed
7-2-2018)
§ 31.025 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Park Board is authorized and empowered for and on behalf of and in the
name of the city to set rules and regulations to be carried out by all persons
in the city parks, municipal pool and city campgrounds, subject, however, to
City Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 7B.11) (Ord. passed 3-8-2000; Ord. passed 3-1-2011; Ord. passed
7-2-2018)
AMBULANCE COMMISSION
§ 31.040 ESTABLISHMENT.
   An Ambulance Commission for the city is hereby created, to be composed of
five voting members, one shall be a Council member. The term of office of each
Commission member shall be three years. Thereafter, the term shall be three
years each. The Mayor shall appoint the Ambulance Commission members, confirmed
by a majority vote of the City Council. The Ambulance Commission shall be
staffed by the current Ambulance Director or, in their absence, the Assistant
Ambulance Director or the City Administrator. The current Medical Director for
the ambulance service, or designee, will serve as a liaison member of the
Ambulance Commission. An ambulance service member shall be elected by the
ambulance service members and be a liaison member.
(Prior Code, § 7C.01) (Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.041 QUALIFICATION AND DUTIES.
   All Ambulance Commission members shall be residents and qualified electors
of the city or qualified electors of townships in the city’s ambulance service
area whose townships financially contribute to the city’s ambulance service.
One Commission member shall be a City Council member. A voting Ambulance
Commission member cannot also be an employee of the city’s ambulance service.
(Prior Code, § 7C.03) (Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.042 VACANCIES.
   In case the office of any member shall become vacant during the member’s
term, the Mayor shall appoint a person of like qualifications, confirmed by a
majority vote of the City Council, as soon as practical thereafter, to fill
such vacancy during such unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 7C.05) (Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.043 QUORUM.
   A majority of three members constitutes a quorum for the conduct of business
of the Ambulance Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7C.07) (Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.044 EXPENSES.
   The City Council shall pay from the City Treasury all necessary expenses
incurred by the Ambulance Commission in the performance of its duties.
(Prior Code, § 7C.09)
§ 31.045 PURCHASES.
   The Ambulance Commission shall supervise and approve all purchases of
equipment and supplies for the city’s ambulance service not exceeding $500. All
purchases in excess of $500 must be first approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7C.11)
§ 31.046 FUNCTION.
   (A)   Paid city ambulance employees, as well as volunteer personnel, shall
be under the supervision and control of the Ambulance Commission to ensure
successful performance of the purpose of the ambulance service.
   (B)   The Ambulance Commission shall maintain a service register of all
members of the volunteer, as well as the paid, city employees for the purpose
of evaluating qualifications, training and competence.
   (C)   The Ambulance Commission shall immediately after its appointment and
from time to time thereafter make, amend, alter and change rules and
regulations to promote efficiency in the ambulance service to carry out the
purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7C.13)
§ 31.047 RETENTION OF POWERS.
   The city shall have, maintain and retain title to the property, including
real estate and personal property used for, incident of or in connection with
the Ambulance Commission and shall retain unto itself the obligation, power and
authority to establish, enforce, order, codify, amend and repeal all
ordinances, rules and regulations for the governing of the Ambulance
Commission, whether herein created and established or otherwise defined.
(Prior Code, § 7C.15) (Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.048 COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES.
   The Ambulance Commission shall establish a regular procedure for the orderly
processing of complaints against the service performed or grievances of
personnel within the ambulance service.
(Prior Code, § 7C.17)
§ 31.049 AMBULANCE RATES.
   (A)   The Ambulance Commission shall annually review the respective rates
for ambulance service and other costs of operation and replacement of
equipment.
   (B)   All rates shall be approved by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7C.19)
§ 31.050 AMBULANCE POLICIES.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Ambulance Commission to prepare and
submit to the City Council and each participating political subdivision, if
any, for approval, the proposed policy regarding ambulance service to those
respective political subdivisions.
(Prior Code, § 7C.21)
§ 31.051 PERSONNEL.
   The city hiring policy will govern the hiring, compensation, and retention
of all ambulance service personnel. The Ambulance Director shall be responsible
for day-to-day operations of the service. The Ambulance Director reports
directly to the City Administrator. All grievances against personnel will be
handled in accordance with the city’s employment policies.
(Prior Code, § 7C.23) (Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.052 MANAGEMENT.
   The duly appointed Director of the Ambulance Service shall act as Clerk of
the Ambulance Commission and shall have charge of the books which shall contain
a full and complete statement of the condition and operation of the Ambulance
Commission and of all moneys received and paid out by order of the Ambulance
Commission and all debts due and owing to the Ambulance Commission for any
cause whatsoever, together with an accurate account of all expenses of the
Ambulance Commission and keep the records of all Ambulance Commission meetings
and make out all reports and all bills and perform such other duties as the
Ambulance Commission prescribe by any rule or regulation. The Ambulance
Commission shall make and submit to the City Council a full, complete and
accurate and itemized financial statement of the operation and expenditures of
the Ambulance Commission during each year. The Ambulance Commission shall
submit a budget annually by the first business day in the month of September.
(Prior Code, § 7C.25)
§ 31.053 POWERS, DUTIES, AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Ambulance Commission is to advise the City Council regarding the
operations of the city’s ambulance service. The Ambulance Commission shall have
the following responsibilities.
   (A)   To receive updates from the Ambulance Director with respect to the
construction, maintenance, repair, and management of the city’s ambulance
facilities, vehicles, and equipment purchases, and make recommendations to the
City Council.
   (B)   To make recommendations to the City Council on the purchase of any
budgeted items exceeding $5,000 in accordance with the city’s purchasing
policy, or as amended.
   (C)   To advise the City Council regarding the operation of the city’s
ambulance service and facilities.
   (D)   To make recommendations to the City Council and Ambulance Director
with respect to rates to be charged for ambulance services.
   (E)   To make recommendations to the City Council regarding ambulance
service specific policies and operating procedures.
   (F)   Assist or provide input to the City Council and/or Ambulance Director
regarding opportunities for mutual aid agreements, regional cooperation, level
of service, business and financial analysis of the service.
   (G)   Review ambulance service quarterly or annual reports on expenditures
and revenues and provide recommendations.
   (H)   Ambulance funds. All amounts charged by the city and collected for
ambulance services are to be deposited in the ambulance department of the
general fund. No indebtedness is to be incurred by the city with respect to the
ambulance service except as is necessary and incidental to the carrying on of
the ambulance service and has been authorized in advance by the City Council.
No alterations, repairs or improvements shall be made to any ambulance service
facilities, vehicles, or equipment unless authorized by the City Council.
(Ord. --, passed --)
§ 31.054 MEETINGS.
   Commission members shall have a duty and obligation to regularly attend
meetings and be prepared for discussion.
(Ord. --, passed –; Ord. passed 4-1-2025)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 31.065 ORGANIZATION.
   The Fire Department shall be forthwith established and shall consist of one
Chief of the Fire Department and four volunteer companies, as follows: two hose
companies of 12 persons each; one hook and ladder company of 14 persons; and
one engine company of five persons, exclusive of firefighter and engineer.
(Prior Code, § 7A.01)
§ 31.066 RANKS.
   The four companies shall organize, by the election by the members thereof,
of one of their members as Chief Assistant, three captains and one safety,
respectively, which officers shall be respected and obeyed by the company in
order of their rank, in the same manner and to the same extent in the line of
duty as in the military service of the country.
(Prior Code, § 7A.03)
§ 31.067 APPOINTMENT.
   The Chief of the Fire Department, Engineer and firefighters shall be
appointed by the City Council at its first regular meeting in May of each year,
and they shall hold their offices for a period of one year, or until their
successor shall be appointed and qualified, and they shall receive such
compensation, if any, as the City Council shall determine; provided that,
officers may be removed from office by a majority vote of the whole Council for
official misconduct, neglect of duty or other adequate cause.
(Prior Code, § 7A.05)
§ 31.068 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have command of all fires in
the city, and shall issue all such orders thereat as shall seem to him or her
proper. In case of the absence of the Chief, the commanding officer of the
company first arriving at the fire shall take command until relieved by the
Chief.
   (B)   The Chief shall promulgate all regulations and orders relating to the
Fire Department, which rules and regulations shall be posted at the
headquarters of the companies, and it shall be the duties of the officers and
members of the companies to acquaint themselves therewith and to respect and
obey the Chief as the head of the Department; all of which are subject,
however, to the orders and control of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7A.07)
§ 31.069 PROPERTY.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall have charge of all property of the
Department and shall be responsible to the city for the safe keeping of the
same.
(Prior Code, § 7A.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.070 REPORTS.
   (A)   The Chief shall, semi-annually, at the first meeting in May and
November of each year make a detailed report to the City Council, which will
show as follows: the number of members of the companies; the number of alarms
responded to; the number of members on duty at each call; a complete inventory
of the city property in his or her custody and the condition of the same.
   (B)   The report shall also contain a list of equipments needed for the
Department, if any.
(Prior Code, § 7A.11)
§ 31.071 MEMBERS; REMOVAL.
   (A)   The names of all persons seeking to become members of the Fire
Department must be voted on by the company; if elected, their names must be
presented to the City Council for approval or rejection; provided that, the
members of the first company shall be appointed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 7A.13)
   (B)   If any firefighter at a fire shall disobey or refuse to obey the
orders of the Chief of the Fire Department, or of any superior officer in their
respective stations, he or she shall be subject to a penalty and shall forfeit
for each and every default not less than $1, nor more than $5, for the use and
benefit of the company to which he or she belongs and he or she also shall be
subject to suspension or dismissal from the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7A.15)
§ 31.072 FIRE AREA.
   The Police Chief, under the direction of the Chief of the Fire Department,
or in his or her absence, the officer in command shall prescribe limits in the
vicinity of a fire within which no person, excepting those residing or having
property therein, members of the Fire Department and those admitted by the
Chief or other officers of the Fire Department, shall be permitted to come and
it shall be the duty of the Police Chief to strictly enforce this section.
(Prior Code, § 7A.17)
§ 31.073 INTERFERENCE.
   Any person found meddling or interfering with any firefighter while in the
discharge of his or her duties or tampering with any fire apparatus, whether as
a fire or otherwise or sounding a false alarm, shall be deemed guilty of a
violation and shall be fined as set out in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 7A.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 31.074 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Fire Department above created shall receive compensation
for their service as the City Council shall, by resolution, fix and determine.
(Prior Code, § 7A.21)
§ 31.075 ABOLISHMENT OF PRESENT DEPARTMENT.
   As soon as the Volunteer Fire Department is organized as above provided, and
its officers are elected, the present Fire Department, and all thereof, shall,
by virtue of the provisions of this subchapter, and without further action
taken on the part of the City Council, be disbanded and abolished.
(Prior Code, § 7A.23)
§ 31.076 CHARGE FOR FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Purposes and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the city to charge for fire service, as authorized by M.S. §§
366.011, 366.012 and 415.01, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 745.01)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FALSE ALARM. Activation of a fire alarm due to accidental or malicious
action or by malfunction of the alarm system or any fire protection system or
other system attached thereto.
      FEES. A charge for professional services. FEES shall be established by
resolution by the City Council for all services provided by the city’s
Volunteer Fire Department.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication and any other services related to fire
and rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town or other
city for the city’s Fire Department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
(Prior Code, § 745.02)
   (C)   Parties affected. The following are affected:
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service;
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city; and
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
(Prior Code, § 745.03)
   (D)   Fees. See the fee schedule as established by resolution by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 745.04)
   (E)   Billing and collection.
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services shall be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services, but a fire or other situation exists, which, at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
service charge not covered by a party’s insurance remains a debt of the party
receiving the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 60 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
      (5)   False alarms will be billed as a fire call as set forth in the fee
schedule established by resolution by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 745.05)
   (F)   Mutual aid agreement. When the city’s Fire Department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
(Prior Code, § 745.06)
CHAPTER 32: FINANCE AND REVENUE; TAXING
Section
Lodging Tax
   
32.01   Definitions
   
32.02   Imposition of tax
   
32.03   Collections
   
32.04   Exemptions
   
32.05   Advertising no tax
   
32.06   Payments and returns
   
32.07   Examination of returns, adjustments, notices and demands
   
32.08   Refunds
   
32.09   Failure to file return
   
32.10   Penalties; amounts remaining unpaid
   
32.11   Administration of tax
   
32.12   Examining records
   
32.13   Use of proceeds
   
32.14   Appeals
Special Assessments for Senior Citizens and Retired Homeowners
   
32.25   Special assessment deferral
   
32.26   Eligibility
   
32.27   Interest on deferred assessment
   
32.28   Termination of deferral status
   
32.29   Filing of deferral status; fee
   
32.30   Effective period
Permit Fees
   
32.45   Permits required
   
32.46   Permit application
   
32.47   Granting permits
   
32.48   Payment of fees
   
32.49   Permit fees
 
   
32.99   Penalty
LODGING TAX
§ 32.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Wabasha, Minnesota, acting by or through its duly
authorized representative(s).
   LODGER. The person obtaining lodging from an operator.
   LODGING. The furnishing for a consideration of lodging at a hotel, motel,
tourist court, municipal campground, houseboats, bed and breakfast, resort and
rooming house other than the renting or leasing of such a premises for a
continuous period of 30 days or more to the same occupant. The furnishing of
rooms owned by religious, educational or non-profit organizations for self-
sponsored activities shall not constitute LODGING for purposes of this chapter.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a building, tourist
court, municipal campground, houseboats, bed and breakfast, resort or rooming
house in the city, or part thereof, in which dwelling units or rooming units
are let, whether in the capacity of owner, lessee, sublessee, licensee or any
other capacity.
   PERSON. Includes all firms, partnerships, associations, corporations and
natural persons.
   RENT. The total consideration valued in money charged for lodging whether
paid in money or otherwise, but shall not include any charges for services
rendered in connection with furnishing lodging other than the room charge
itself.
(Prior Code, § 819.01) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.02 IMPOSITION OF TAX.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 469.190, as it may be amended from time to time,
there is hereby imposed a tax of 3% on the rent charged by an operator for
providing lodging to any person. The tax shall be stated and charged separately
and shall be collected by the operator from the lodger. The tax collected by
the operator shall be a debt owed by the operator to the city and shall be
extinguished only by payment to the city.
   (B)   In no case shall the tax imposed by this subchapter upon an operator
exceed the amount of tax which the operator is authorized and required by this
subchapter to collect from a lodger.
(Prior Code, § 819.02) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.03 COLLECTIONS.
   Each operator shall collect the tax imposed by this subchapter at the time
the rent is paid. The tax collection shall be deemed to be held in trust by the
operator for the city. The amount of tax shall be separately stated from the
rent charged for the lodging and those persons paying the tax shall receive a
receipt of payment from the operator.
(Prior Code, § 819.03) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   An exemption shall be granted to any person as to whom or whose occupancy is
beyond the power of the city to tax. No exemption shall be granted except upon
a claim therefor made at the time the rent is collected and a claim shall be
made in writing and under penalty of perjury on forms provided by the city. All
such claims shall be forwarded to the city when the returns and collections are
submitted as required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 819.04) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.05 ADVERTISING NO TAX.
   It shall be unlawful for any operator to advertise or hold out or state to
the public or any customer, directly or indirectly, that the tax or any part
thereof will be assumed or absorbed by the operator. It is optional for the
operator to decide to include a separate line item on his or her bill in the
collection of the tax. In computing the tax to be collected, amounts of tax
less than $0.01 shall be considered an additional cent.
(Prior Code, § 819.05) (Ord. passed 2- -2002) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.06 PAYMENTS AND RETURNS.
   (A)   The taxes imposed by this subchapter shall be paid by the operator to
the city monthly, not later than 20 days after the end of the month in which
the taxes were collected or on the same schedule as the operator remits state
sales taxes. At the time of payment, the operator shall submit a return upon
the forms and containing information as the city may require.
   (B)   The return shall contain the following minimum information:
      (1)   The total amount of rent collected for lodging during the period
covered by the return;
      (2)   The amount of non-collectible rental charges subject to the
lodgings tax;
      (3)   The amount of tax required to be collected and due for the period;
      (4)   The signature of the person filing the return or that of his or her
agent duly authorized in writing; including a certification of accuracy
attested to by the person signing the forms: and
      (5)   The period covered by the return.
   (C)   The operator may offset against the taxes payable with respect to any
reporting period, the amount of taxes imposed by this subchapter previously
paid as a result of any transaction the consideration for which became non-
collectible.
(Prior Code, § 819.06) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.07 EXAMINATION OF RETURNS, ADJUSTMENTS, NOTICES AND DEMANDS.
   (A)   The city or its duly authorized representatives shall, after a return
is filed, examine the same and make any investigation or examination of the
records and accounts of the person making the return deemed necessary for
determining its correctness. The tax computed on the basis of the examination
shall be the tax to be paid.
   (B)   (1)   If the tax due is found to be greater than that paid, the excess
shall be paid to the city within ten days after receipt of a notice thereof
given either personally or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the address shown on the return.
      (2)   If the tax paid is greater than the tax found to be due, the excess
shall be refunded to the person who paid the tax to the city within ten working
days after determination of the refund.
(Prior Code, § 819.07) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.08 REFUNDS.
   Any person may apply to the city for a refund of taxes paid for a prescribed
period in excess of the amount legally due for that period; provided that, no
application for refund shall be considered unless filed within one year from
the date the return was due to be filed. The city shall examine the claim and
make and file written findings denying or allowing the claim in whole or in
part and shall mail a notice thereof by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the person at the address stated upon the return. If the claim is
allowed in whole or in part, the city shall credit the amount of the allowance
against any taxes due under this subchapter from the claimant and the balance
of the allowance, if any, shall be paid by the city to the claimant.
(Prior Code, § 819.08) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.09 FAILURE TO FILE RETURN.
   (A)   If any operator required by this subchapter to file a return shall
fail to do so within the time prescribed, or shall make, willfully or
otherwise, an incorrect, false or fraudulent return, the operator shall, upon
written notice and demand, file the return or corrected return within five days
of receipt of the written notice and shall, at the same time, pay any tax due
on the basis thereof. If the person shall fail to file the return or corrected
return, the city shall make a return or corrected return for the person based
upon the knowledge or information as the tax administrator can obtain and
assess a tax on the basis thereof, which tax (less any payments therefor made
on account of the tax for the taxable period covered by the return) shall be
paid within five days of the receipt of written notice and demand for the
payment. Any such return or assessment made by the tax administrator shall be
prima facie correct and valid, and the person shall have the burden of
establishing its incorrectness or invalidity in any action of proceeding in
respect thereto.
   (B)   If any portion of a tax imposed by this subchapter, including
penalties thereon, is not paid within 30 days after it is required to be paid,
the prosecuting attorney for the municipality may institute legal action as may
be necessary to recover the amount due, plus attorney fees, interest,
penalties, the costs and disbursements of any action.
   (C)   Upon a showing of good cause, the tax administrator may grant an
operator one 30-day extension of time within which to file a return and make
payment of taxes as required by this subchapter; provided that, interest during
the period of extension shall be added to the taxes due at the rate of 10% per
annum.
(Prior Code, § 819.09) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.10 PENALTIES; AMOUNTS REMAINING UNPAID.
   (A)   If any tax imposed by this subchapter is not paid within the time
herein specified for the payment, or an extension thereof, there shall be added
thereto a civil penalty equal to 10% of the amount remaining unpaid.
   (B)   In case of any failure to make and file a return within the time
prescribed by this subchapter, unless it is shown that the failure is not due
to willful neglect, there shall be added to the tax in addition to penalty
provided in division (A) above, a penalty of 10% for each 30-day period or
fraction thereof during which the failure continues, not exceeding 25% in the
aggregate. There shall be a minimum penalty assessed of $25 if penalties in the
aggregate do not exceed that amount. The amount so added to any tax shall be
collected at the same time and in the same manner and as part of the tax unless
the tax has been paid before the discovery of the negligence, in which case the
amount so added shall be collected in the same manner as the tax.
   (C)   If any person willfully fails to file any return or make any payment
required by this subchapter, or willfully files a false of fraudulent return or
willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax or payment thereof,
there shall also be imposed as a civil penalty an amount equal to 50% of any
tax (less any amounts paid on the basis of the false or fraudulent return)
found due for the period to which such return related. This penalty shall be
collected as part of the tax, and shall be in addition to any other penalties
provided by this subchapter.
   (D)   All payments received shall be credited first to penalties, next to
interest and then to the tax due.
   (E)   The amount of tax not timely paid, together with any penalty provided
by this subchapter, shall bear interest at the rate of 10% per annum from the
time the tax should have been paid until payment is made. Any interest and
penalty shall be added to the tax and collected as part thereof.
(Prior Code, § 819.10) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.11 ADMINISTRATION OF TAX.
   The city shall administer and enforce the assessment and collection of the
taxes imposed by this subchapter. The city shall cause to be prepared blank
forms for the returns and other documents required by this subchapter and shall
distribute the same throughout the city. Failure to receive or secure the forms
and documents shall not relieve any person from any obligation required of him
or her under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 819.11) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.12 EXAMINING RECORDS.
   (A)   Persons acting on behalf of the city and authorized in writing by the
city may examine the books, papers and records of any operator in order to
verify the accuracy of any return made or, if no return was made, to ascertain
the tax as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Every operator is directed and required to give to the city the means,
facilities and opportunity during regular city business hours for examinations
and investigations as are hereby authorized.
(Prior Code, § 819.12) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.13 USE OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   Ninety-five percent of the proceeds obtained from the collection of
taxes pursuant to this subchapter shall be used in accordance with M.S. §
469.190, as it may be amended from time to time. The Wabasha/Kellogg Convention
and Visitors Bureau (CVB) shall receive the proceeds for the purpose of
marketing and promoting the area as a tourist region and providing fulfillment
duties as necessary. The CVB shall present the City Council with an annual
operating budget and quarterly reports of expenditures. In an effort to promote
the Wabasha area as a tourist region, the CVB shall be appointed by City
Council and shall consist of the following representatives:
      (1)   Two lodgers;
      (2)   One Chamber of Commerce member;
      (3)   One City Hall;
      (4)   One restaurant; and
      (5)   Two attractions/retail.
   (B)   Three appointees will serve a term of two years, and four appointees
will serve a term of three years. All other and subsequent appointments shall
be for a term of three years.
   (C)   (1)   The city shall forward 95% of the collected proceeds to the CVB
by the tenth of the month following the collection of the lodging tax.
      (2)   The city shall retain 5% of the proceeds obtained hereunder to
defray the costs and expenses of collection and administration.
(Prior Code, § 819.14) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
§ 32.14 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any operator aggrieved by any notice, order or determination made by
the city under this subchapter may file a petition for review of the notice or
determination.
   (B)   The petition shall be filed with the city within ten days after the
notice, order or determination for which review is sought has been mailed to or
served upon the person requesting review.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the petition, the City Clerk shall set a date and time
for a meeting with the petitioner and shall give the petitioner at least five
days’ prior written notice of the date, time and place of the meeting.
   (D)   (1)   At the meeting, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to
show cause why the notice, order or determination should be modified or
withdrawn.
      (2)   The petitioner may be represented by counsel of petitioner’s
choosing at petitioner’s expense.
      (3)   If the meeting does not result in the matter being resolved to the
satisfaction of the petitioner, the petitioner may appeal to the City Council.
   (E)   A petitioner seeking to appeal a decision to the City Council must
file a written notice of appeal with the City Council within ten days after the
tax administrator’s decision. The hearing shall be conducted by the City
Council and it shall make written findings of fact and conclusions based upon
the applicable section of this subchapter and the evidence presented. The City
Council may affirm, reverse or modify the notice, order or determination, which
is the subject of the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 819.15) (Ord. passed 2- -2002)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS FOR SENIOR CITIZENS AND RETIRED HOMEOWNERS
§ 32.25 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DEFERRAL.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 435.193, as it may be amended from time to time, senior
citizens and retired disabled homeowners may defer special assessments levied
against single- or two-family residential property if the criteria set forth
herein is met.
(Prior Code, § 1D.01)
§ 32.26 ELIGIBILITY.
   Any person 65 years of age or older or totally and permanently disabled as
determine by the Social Security Administration may defer special assessments
levied against real property for public improvements if the following
conditions are met.
   (A)   Ownership.
      (1)   The applicant must be the fee simple owner of the property or must
be a contract vendee for fee simple ownership.
      (2)   An applicant must provide either a recorded deed or contract for
deed with the application to establish a qualified ownership interest as
required herein.
   (B)   Homestead. The property must be the applicant’s principal place of
domicile classified on the city’s and county’s real estate tax rolls as the
applicant’s homestead.
   (C)   Net income. The applicant’s net income and net income of all other
joint tenants, tenants in common or contract vendees entitled to the property
may not exceed $10,000 during the preceding year for the assessment levy. The
income determination shall be made under a formula as set forth on a form by
the city.
   (D)   Total assets. The total assets for all members of the household does
not exceed $50,000 in value (including homestead).
   (E)   Total assessment. The total special assessment exceeds $500.
(Prior Code, § 1D.03)
§ 32.27 INTEREST ON DEFERRED ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   All deferred special assessments shall be subject to and charged
simple interest at the prevailing rate applicable at the time the assessment
was originally levied.
   (B)   The interest shall be payable upon termination of the deferral status
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 1D.05)
§ 32.28 TERMINATION OF DEFERRAL STATUS.
   Special assessment payments deferred pursuant to the eligibility
requirements set forth herein shall become payable effective upon the
occurrence of any of the following events:
   (A)   Sale of the property. The subject property is sold, transferred,
subdivided or in any way conveyed to another by the fee owner qualified for
deferral status;
   (B)   Death of the owner. The death of the fee owner qualified for deferral
status, unless a surviving joint tenant, tenant in common or contract for deed
is eligible for the deferral benefit provided herein;
   (C)   Non-homestead property. The subject property loses its homestead
status for any reason; and
   (D)   No hardship. The City Council determines that there would be no
hardship to require an immediate or partial payment of the deferred special
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 1D.07)
§ 32.29 FILING OF DEFERRAL STATUS; FEE.
   (A)   An eligible applicant must file an application, in duplicate, on a
form prescribed by the County Auditor and approved by the city and submitted to
the City Clerk.
   (B)   The applicant will be charged an administrative filing fee of $25 to
process all applications for special assessment deferments.
(Prior Code, § 1D.09)
§ 32.30 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   (A)   A deferral, if granted, shall be effective for a period of five years.
   (B)   A deferral may be renewed for an additional five years upon the filing
of a similar application prior to the end of the five-year period.
   (C)   The procedure for approval on a subsequent application shall be the
same as for the initial application, as set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 1D.11)
PERMIT FEES
§ 32.45 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to engage in any trade, business, profession, activity or
privilege in the city for which a permit is required by any provision of this
code without first obtaining a permit from the city in the manner provided in
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 815.01) Penalty, see §
32.99
§ 32.46 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit is made to the City Clerk on forms furnished by the
city. The application shall contain information as to location, nature, extent
and costs of the proposed structure, work, installation or other purposes, and
other information which the Building Inspector or other duly authorized persons
may require under this code. The application shall contain a declaration that
the facts and representations therein made are true and correct, which
statement shall be subscribed to by the person or persons, or officers or
agents of a corporation, applying for the permit.
(Prior Code, § 815.03)
§ 32.47 GRANTING PERMITS.
   Upon payment to the city by the applicant of the required fee for any
permits, and upon the approval of the appropriate inspector, the permit shall
be issued, except where Council approval is required, in which case the
Building Inspector is authorized to issue the permit after approval is granted
by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 815.05)
§ 32.48 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   (A)   Payment. The permit fee and other fees and charges set forth in this
code shall be collected by the city before the issuance of any permits, the
City Clerk, Building Inspector or other persons duly authorized to issue the
permit for which the payment of a fee is required under the provisions of this
code may not issue a permit until the fee shall have been paid.
   (B)   Double fees. If a person begins work of any kind for which a permit
from the city is required, without having secured the necessary permits
therefor, either previous to or on the date of commencement of the work, he or
she shall, when subsequently securing the permit, pay double the fee provided
for the permit, and is subject to the penalty provisions of this code.
   (C)   Refund policy. Whenever the owner of a permit or his or her
representative makes a written request, within, but no greater than, 180 days
of permit issuance, provided no work authorized by the permit has occurred, the
city is authorized to refund the permit fee, minus an administrative fee equal
to 20% of the permit fee up to a maximum of $100, plus all out-of-pocket
expense associated with the issuance of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 815.07) (Ord. passed 8-19-2003; Ord. passed 9-2-2003)
§ 32.49 PERMIT FEES.
   The fees for the various permits are set forth herein.
Type of Permit Section Requiring Permit Permit Fee
Type of Permit                     Section Requiring Permit Fee
                                   Permit
Building - demolition permit       150.03            $150
application
Building - mobile home permit      150.03            $80
application
Building - moving permit           150.03            $150
application
Building sewer permit (industrial) 53.05             $100
Building sewer permit              53.05             $30
(residential)
Building - standard single-family  150.03            97 UBC
dwelling (owner)
Floodplain
   Condition use permit         160.56            $200
   Variance                     160.57            $100
Individual sewage treatment system
   Mound system                 -                 $360
   Standard system              -                 $250
Land excavation                    156.15            $5
Private sewage disposal            53.04             $30
SAC                                -                 $600
Starting of fires                  92.04             $5
Street alley vacation application  -                 $150
Sign/special sign
   Sign permit                  153.24            $50
   Variance                     -                 $150
Street excavation                  156.30-           $50
                                   156.37
Subdivision
   Minor subdivision - property 161.23            $200
split
   Plan unit development        161.23            $300
application
   Preliminary plat             161.23            $500
Telecommunications excavation      -                 $50
WAC                                -                 $100
                                                     $50 per service
                                                     connection - if
                                                     excavation is commenced
Water services                     52.26             without an excavation
                                                     permit, the fee shall be
                                                     increased to the sum of
                                                     $100
Zoning
   Conditional use permit
      Residential            162.029           $200
      Commercial             -                 $250
   Council appeal process       162.013           $100
   District classification chang162.013           $200
   Planned unit development     162.013           $300
   Variance
      Residential            162.030           $100
      Commercial             -                 $150
   Zoning compliance letter     162.013           $25
 
(Prior Code, § 815.09) (Ord. passed 8-19-2003; Ord. passed 9-2-2003)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall willfully fail to file a tax return required by
§§
32.01 through
32.14 of this chapter, or who shall fail to remit the taxes collected or any
penalty or interest imposed by §§
32.01 through
32.14 of this chapter after written demand for the payment, or who shall refuse
to permit the city’s authorized agents to examine the books, records and papers
under his or her control, or who shall willfully make any incomplete, false or
fraudulent return shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment
of not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
(Prior Code, § 819.13)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Policy and purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
33.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
33.05   Local emergencies
   
33.06   Emergency regulations
   
33.07   Emergency management a government function
   
33.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 33.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 C.F.R. part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting
training programs as required to assure emergency operational capability in the
several services as provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 33.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the
existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at the
City Clerk’s Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city hall
or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area as
the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council may
modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation
law, or under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any
benefits or compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 33.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 34: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
Section
   
34.01   Purpose and statutory authority
   
34.02   Method of disposition
   
34.03   Property having insubstantial value
   
34.04   Items which may be destroyed
   
34.05   Disposition of proceeds
§ 34.01 PURPOSE AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is enacted to provide for the custody and disposal of
property other than motor vehicles coming into the possession of the city in
the course of municipal operations and remaining unclaimed by the owner.
   (B)   It is adopted pursuant to the provisions of M.S. § 471.195, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 120.01)
§ 34.02 METHOD OF DISPOSITION.
   (A)   Property which has come into the possession of the city and has
remained unclaimed by its owner for a period of six months or more may be
disposed of by the city by sale to the highest bidder at public auction or
sale.
   (B)   The public auction or sale shall be conducted under the direction of
the Mayor, following published notice in the official newspaper at least ten
days in advance of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 120.03)
§ 34.03 PROPERTY HAVING INSUBSTANTIAL VALUE.
   Property having no substantial value may be discarded or given away by the
city, but a list of items so disposed of shall be retained in the files of the
city for at least six years.
(Prior Code, § 120.05)
§ 34.04 ITEMS WHICH MAY BE DESTROYED.
   Items of personal property having nuisance potential, such as firearms,
dangerous weapons, liquor and narcotics, may be destroyed upon order of the
Mayor. A list of items so destroyed shall be maintained for a period of at
least six years.
(Prior Code, § 120.07)
§ 34.05 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of any such sale shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city, subject to the right of the former owner to payment of the sale price
from the fund upon application and satisfactory proof of ownership within six
months of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 120.09)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLING
      
51.   STREET LIGHT UTILITY
      
52.   WATERWORKS
      
53.   WASTEWATER TREATMENT
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLING
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Sanitary disposal
   
50.03   Vehicle construction
   
50.04   Vehicle maintenance
   
50.05   Vehicle loading
   
50.06   Time of disposal
   
50.07   Nuisance abatement
   
50.08   State regulations adopted; modifications
   
50.09   Refuse burning devices
Curbside Residential Recycling
   
50.20   License requirement
   
50.21   Separation required
   
50.22   Collection
   
50.23   Scavenging recyclables
   
50.24   Residential application
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the Health Officer following his or her
determination as to the compliance with established public health practices and
standards.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible animal, vegetable or other matter that attends to
the preparation, consumption, display, dealing in or storage of meat, fish,
fowl, birds, fruit or vegetables, including the cans, containers or wrappers
wasted along with such materials.
   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The Public Health Officer or his or her authorized
representative.
   MAYOR. The City Mayor.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter whereby the resultant combustion
products are emitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through an
adequate stack, duct or chimney.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation or other partnership or organization
who along, jointly or severally with others shall be in ownership of, or have
charge, care or control of, any premises or business within the municipality as
owner, employee or agent of the owner, or as trustee or guardian of the estate
or person of the title holder.
   PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure or parcel of
property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys, parks,
public buildings and other public ways.
   REFUSE. All solid waste products or those wastes having the character of
solids rather than liquids in that they will not flow readily without
additional liquid and which are composed wholly or partially of such materials
as garbage, sweepings, swill, cleanings, trash, rubbish, litter, industrial
solid wastes or domestic solid wastes; organic wastes or residue of animals
sold as meat, fruit or other vegetable or animal matter from kitchen, dining
room, market, food establishment or any place dealing in or handling meat,
fowl, fruit, grain or vegetables; offal, animal excreta or the carcass of
animals; tree or shrub trimmings or grass clippings; brick, plaster, wood,
metal or other waste matter resulting from the demolition, alteration or
construction of buildings or structures; accumulated waste materials, cans,
containers, junk vehicles, ashes, tires, junk or other substance which may
become a nuisance.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes such as wood, leaves, trimmings from
shrubs, dead trees or branches thereof, shavings, sawdust, excelsior, wooden
waste, printed matter, paper, paper board, paste board, grass, rags, straw,
boots, shoes, hats and all other combustibles not included under the term
“garbage”.
   SWILL. Garbage which is wholly or nearly edible and usable as a food and has
food value for animals or fowl, accumulating from animal, vegetable or other
matter wasted from clubs, hotels, hospitals, restaurants and public eating
places.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a thoroughfare, including devices used exclusively
upon stationary rails or tracks.
   WASTE MATTER. Non-putrescible solid waste such as soil, earth, sand, clay,
gravel, loam, stone, brick, plaster, crockery, glass, glassware, ashes,
cinders, shells, metal and all other non-combustible material which has been or
is to be discarded.
(Prior Code, § 405.01)
§ 50.02 SANITARY DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Refuse shall be disposed of in a sanitary manner as approved by the
Health Authority and shall not constitute a nuisance. Refuse shall not be
composted or buried; except that, composting in an approved rodent- and fly-
proof device or filling operations using approved fill materials and methods
may be permitted. In no case can garbage be composted or buried.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to fail to
dispose of garbage and rubbish, which may be or may accumulate upon property
owned or occupied by him or her or them, in a sanitary manner at least as often
as provided in §
50.06 of this chapter.
   (C)   Every householder or occupant of any dwelling house, boarding house,
restaurant or any place of business, having garbage to dispose of, who does
not, otherwise provide for the disposal of the garbage in a sanitary manner,
shall provide himself or herself with one or more fly-tight cans sufficient to
receive all garbage which may accumulate between the times of collection. Each
can shall be provided with a bail or handles and a tight-fitting cover.
   (D)   All garbage accumulating between the times of collection shall be
placed in the cans provided for in division (B) above.
   (E)   Garbage cans shall be kept at or near the back door of the building
using the same, or at the rear of the property if there is an alley, and shall
be accessible to collectors at all reasonable times.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to collect
garbage without having first secured from the City Council a license to do so.
   (G)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license to collect garbage
and/or rubbish shall make application for the same to the City Clerk upon a
form prescribed by the City Council. The application shall set forth the name
and address of the applicants and a list of equipment which he or she possess
to use in the collection. The application shall be submitted to the Health
Officer for his or her investigation and report. If the Health Officer finds
that the applicant is responsible and has proper equipment for the collection
and that no nuisance is liable to be created by the granting of the license, he
or she shall endorse his or her approval upon the application. If the
application is approved by the City Council, the City Clerk shall issue and
deliver the license. The fee for the license is provided for in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 405.03) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 VEHICLE CONSTRUCTION.
   The body of every vehicle licensed hereunder shall be constructed entirely
of metal or the space in the vehicle in which refuse shall be kept shall be
completely lined with metal. All joints shall be effectively closed so that no
dripping or leaking or drain off of water, liquids or any substance can occur.
The loading space shall be provided with a tight metal hood having an opening
fitted with metal doors or shall be provided with a heavy metal tarpaulin or
equivalent cover fitted with eyes, grommets, tie ropes or hooks so that the
cover can be held securely over the loaded refuse. Every vehicle used for
collection of garbage or swill shall have a permanent metal cover. Every
vehicle shall be equipped with the necessary hand tools for cleaning up spills.
(Prior Code, § 405.05) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 VEHICLE MAINTENANCE.
   Every vehicle licensed hereunder shall be kept well painted, clean and in
good repair. Every vehicle used for collecting garbage or swill shall be
cleaned every week or oftener as necessary to prevent persistent odors and
shall be cleaned before being used for any other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 405.07) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 VEHICLE LOADING.
   (A)   Garbage, refuse, rubbish or other waste matter shall be so loaded that
none of the materials can jar loose and fall to the ground or street when the
vehicle is in motion.
   (B)   Loose paper, trash and similar materials shall be so secured that they
cannot be displaced by the wind or fall our of the vehicle.
   (C)   Containers used to carry refuse in or on any vehicle shall comply with
the requirements of §
50.03 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 405.09) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 TIME OF DISPOSAL.
   All garbage must be disposed of in a sanitary manner at least once a week
between May 1 and November 1 of each year, and at least bi-monthly between
November 1 and May 1 of each year, and all rubbish must be disposed of at least
monthly between May 1 and November 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 405.11)
§ 50.07 NUISANCE ABATEMENT.
   Any accumulation of refuse on any premises not stored in containers which
comply with this subchapter, or any accumulation of refuse on any premises
which has remained thereon for more than one week is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and may be abated by order of the city’s Health Authority, as provided
by M.S. §§ 145A.04, subd. 8 and 9, and 145A.08, subd. 2, as they may be amended
from time to time, and the cost of abatement may be assessed on the property
where the nuisance was found, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 405.13)
§ 50.08 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED; MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Minn. Regs. APC 7 and 8 of the state’s Pollution Control Agency are
adopted by reference and are as much a part of this subchapter as if fully set
forth herein. A violation of the regulations so adopted is a violation of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 405.15)
   (B)   It is hereby determined that adequate refuse collection service is
available to the municipality and open burning is prohibited. Exceptions to APC
8 shall require written approval of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 405.17)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.09 REFUSE BURNING DEVICES.
   No device for the combustion of refuse shall be constructed, installed,
altered, repaired or operated after the effective date of this subchapter
unless it is of approved design, construction and/or operation. No device shall
be installed, altered or repaired, nor permit issued for the work, unless and
until the installation or work shall have been approved by the Health
Authority. No device or container for open burning shall be maintained on any
premises.
(Prior Code, § 405.19) Penalty, see §
50.99
CURBSIDE RESIDENTIAL RECYCLING
§ 50.20 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   No person shall engage in curbside hauling of recyclable material from
any residential premises other than his or her home domicile in the city unless
that person holds a valid license hereunder and also a valid garbage hauling
license, pursuant to §§
50.01 through
50.09 of this chapter.
   (B)   The term of each license shall be from March 1 through the end of
February of each year and there shall be no fee required for obtaining a
license.
   (C)   The application for license or renewal of license shall contain a
description of the types and makes of the motor vehicles used for collection, a
schedule of the services to be made to the customers, the frequency of service
to be rendered and full information as to where and how the materials collected
will be disposed of and any other information the city shall require.
   (D)   Application for license hereunder shall be submitted to the city for
review and recommendation. If the Council is satisfied that the public need,
convenience and good order will be served thereby, it may grant one or more
licenses pursuant to this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 410.01)
§ 50.21 SEPARATION REQUIRED.
   All recyclable items set out for disposal by the owner or occupant of every
residence within the city shall be set out for disposal so that the following
matters are separated:
   (A)   Newsprint (non-glossy print);
   (B)   Rinsed glass bottles and other glass containers without rings or caps;
   (C)   Aluminum and tin cans; and
   (D)   Plastic containers.
(Prior Code, § 410.03)
§ 50.22 COLLECTION.
   (A)   Collection of separated materials shall be at least once per month and
shall be set out for disposal in separate containers at curbside.
   (B)   The license holder hereunder may establish its own rules and
regulations in addition to any of these requirements and any such rule shall be
subject to prior approval by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 410.05)
§ 50.23 SCAVENGING RECYCLABLES.
   (A)   The ownership of recyclables, as defined herein, shall remain and be
vested in the person or persons who or which collected and stored the
recyclables until collected by a hauler authorized by the city to collect
recyclables and serving the person or persons at which time the ownership shall
vest in the hauler.
   (B)   No person shall remove, take or collect recyclables owned by any other
person, except, however, a hauler authorized by the city to collect recyclables
and serving the owner, as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 410.07) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.24 RESIDENTIAL APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply only to curbside residential recycling and
pickup of residential recycled materials.
(Prior Code, § 410.09)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §
50.23 of this chapter shall constitute a petty misdemeanor, subject to a fine
of not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 410.07)
CHAPTER 51: STREET LIGHT UTILITY
Section
   
51.01   Authority and purpose
   
51.02   Street Light Utility; areas served
   
51.03   Definitions
   
51.04   Rates and collections of fees
§ 51.01 AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. § 429.021, as it may be amended from time to time, authorizes cities to
install, replace, extend and maintain street lights and street lighting systems
and special lighting systems. The City Council has determined that in order to
promote the general health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the city, it
is in the best interest of the citizens that the city operate and maintain a
city street lighting system utility and has further determined that the
operation and maintenance of the utility benefits each and every property
within the city. The City Council has, therefore, determined that it is fair,
appropriate and reasonable that the costs of the operation and maintenance be
paid on a fair and reasonable basis by all of the property in the city so
benefitted and the cost should be charged and collected from all benefitted
property, except for those exempted in §
51.04 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 650.01) (Ord. passed 9-7-2010; Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 51.02 STREET LIGHT UTILITY; AREAS SERVED.
   (A)   Establishment. The city hereby establishes a Street Light Utility. The
system consists of all street lighting facilities owned by the city and all
street lighting facilities for which the city purchases and supplies electrical
energy. The operation of the utility shall be under the supervision of the
Public Works Superintendent.
   (B)   Areas served by standard street lighting systems. This includes
portions of the city where street lights are installed.
(Prior Code, § 650.05) (Ord. passed 9-7-2010; Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 51.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SNOWBIRD. Residents that leave for an extended (more than 30 days) period of
time.
   STREET LIGHT UTILITY FEE. The fee charged monthly for the operation, repair
and maintenance of the street lights.
(Prior Code, § 650.10) (Ord. passed 9-7-2010; Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
§ 51.04 RATES AND COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   Rates and charges.
      (1)   Every property within the city limits shall be charged a street
light utility fee, which shall be a fair and equitable share of the cost to
provide, operate and maintain the city-wide street lighting system. The Street
Light Utility fee shall be determined by the City Council by resolution.
      (2)   Each property with a single meter, but servicing more than one
unit, shall be charged a street light utility fee for each unit serviced by the
single meter.
   (B)   Collection of fees. Street light utility charges may be billed and
collected on a monthly basis as determined by the City Clerk.
   (C)   Snowbirds. Residents that are snowbirds and sign a utility waiver form
to have their utility services suspended are still responsible for payment of
the monthly Street Light Utility fee for the period that the utility services
are suspended. The fee will be due when utility services are resumed.
   (D)   Exemptions. The following land uses are exempt from the established
Street Light Utility charges:
      (1)   Public street right-of-way;
      (2)   City-owned land;
      (3)   Railroad right-of-way; and
      (4)   Cemeteries.
   (E)   Penalty for late payment. A penalty in the amount of 10% of the
balance shall be added to all public utilities accounts not paid in full by the
due date. The penalty for late payment shall be added to the balance for which
the account remains unpaid.
   (F)   Certification of past due surcharges on taxes. Any past due Street
Light Utility charges in excess of 90 days past due on October 1 of any year
may be certified to the applicable county records office for collection with
real estate taxes in the following year pursuant to M.S. § 429.101, as it may
be amended from time to time. In addition, the city shall also have the right
to bring a civil action or take other legal remedies to collect the unpaid
surcharges.
(Prior Code, § 650.15) (Ord. passed 9-7-2010; Ord. passed 6-5-2012)
CHAPTER 52: WATERWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Water conservation; emergency
   
52.02   Declaration of critical water deficiency
Waterworks
   
52.15   Utilities Commission; power
   
52.16   Definitions
   
52.17   Connections
   
52.18   Meters
   
52.19   Contract
   
52.20   Application for services
   
52.21   Water services
   
52.22   Materials and installations
   
52.23   Excavation
   
52.24   Inspection
   
52.25   Waiver of damages
   
52.26   Charges
   
52.27   Tapping mains
   
52.28   Lines; responsibility
   
52.29   Disconnection for late payment
   
52.30   Water rates and water rents
 
   
52.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Water rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 WATER CONSERVATION; EMERGENCY.
   (A)   At such times that the City Clerk or Utility Superintendent determines
that a shortage of water supply threatens the city, pursuant to the Water
Emergency and Conservation Plan Part 2, § D, the city may limit the time and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing or other specified uses. In such emergency events, a directive shall be
posted in the City Hall and published once in the official newspaper of the
city declaring a water emergency. The emergency directive shall remain in
effect until the City Council, by resolution, terminates the water usage
limitations.
   (B)   A limitation shall be implemented as follows.
      (1)   Residents with an odd house number shall only water lawns or wash
cars on odd-numbered calendar days, and those with even house numbers shall
only water lawns or wash cars on even- numbered days. During the limitations,
residents shall not water between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above limitations, those residents with
recently established lawns may water daily for up to one month after
installation, but only during the hours as set forth above.
(Prior Code, § 510) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.02 DECLARATION OF CRITICAL WATER DEFICIENCY.
   (A)   Purpose. This section establishes procedures to implement emergency
water conservation restrictions in response to a critical water deficiency
declared by the governor, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.291.
   (B)   Application. This section applies to all water customers of the city
who own or control water use on any premises.
   (C)   Declaration of critical water deficiency. Upon the declaration of a
critical water deficiency by the governor, the city shall take action
consistent with M.S. § 103G.291, subd. 1 to restrict nonessential water uses.
Restrictions imposed during an emergency shall continue in effect until the end
of the emergency and/or removed by the city.
   (D)   Emergency water use restrictions. Emergency water use restrictions
shall be implemented upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the
governor. Restrictions may include limiting or prohibiting irrigation or
watering, vehicle washing, and any other nonessential uses as determined by the
city.
   (E)   Public notice. The City Clerk or Utilities Superintendent shall post a
directive at City Hall and shall take other action reasonably practicable to
inform the general public of emergency water use restrictions and the penalties
which could be imposed for violation of such restrictions.
(Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-3-2023)
WATERWORKS
§ 52.15 UTILITIES COMMISSION; POWER.
   The Utilities Commission shall have full and exclusive control of and power
over the water system of the city; and shall, from time to time, make such
additional rules and regulations as may seem necessary. The proposed rules and
regulations shall be published once in the legal publication of the city and
shall be accompanied by a notice stating the date and time of a hearing on the
same. If, after the hearing, the same are adopted by a majority vote of the
Commission, they shall become part of all owners’ contracts with the city.
(Prior Code, § 500.01) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Utilities Commission of the city.
   OWNER. The owner of any real estate in the city applying for or now
receiving any of the services of the Commission.
   SERVICE LINE. The portion of the pipe connected to the water or sewer main
and ending at the property line.
   SNOWMAKING. The conversion of water to human-made snow on a ski trail or ski
area for the purpose of supplementing or augmenting natural precipitation.
SNOWMAKING shall include the ancillary use of water for the irrigation of
permitted ski areas for ski slopes maintenance and protection. Water utilized
for SNOWMAKING shall not be used for residential, commercial or industrial or
other municipal purposes besides SNOWMAKING.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent or authorized agent for the Utilities
Commission duly appointed by the Commission.
   SUPPLY LINE. The portion of the pipe on owners premises connecting with the
service line.
(Prior Code, § 500.02) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.17 CONNECTIONS.
   Each resident, commercial or industrial unit shall have a separate water and
sewer connection and no owner shall allow a supply line in connection with the
service line leading to his or her premises if the supply line shall conduct
water to premises other than the premises for which the original connection was
granted; except that, upon application to the Commission, two adjoining owners
may install and maintain joint service lines. Separate meters, however, shall
be installed for each unit.
(Prior Code, § 500.03) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.18 METERS.
   (A)   All water furnished by the city shall be measured by meters and paid
for accordingly. The meters and curb stops and the like are purchased from the
city and maintained by the owner at his, her or their expense.
   (B)   All meters must be set and be at all times under the supervision and
direction of the Utilities Commission or its agent. The meters must be so set
that they will be easily examined and read and be provided with suitable
protection, making them safe from frost or other damage.
   (C)   In case of refusal or neglect to set or protect a meter as herein
required, the Utilities Commission or their agent shall refuse to turn water on
or, if water has been turned on, it shall be turned off and remain turned off
until the consumer shall have complied with the requirements. The use of no
meter of a size smaller than the service pipe will be permitted. All expense of
attaching meters and of protecting them from frost or other damage shall be
paid by the consumer, and any meter found at any time frozen, damaged or
registering incorrectly must be repaired or replaced upon the order of the
Utilities Commission or its agent, and at the expense of the consumer; and no
meter shall be repaired or removed, except upon permission granted by the
Utilities Commission or its agent.
   (D)   In such case where a consumer requests that his or her meter be
tested, the city shall test the meter. If the test shows an accurate
measurement of water, the consumer shall be charged $50 for the cost of the
test. If the test shows that the meter is inaccurate, the meter shall be
replaced at no cost to the consumer.
(Prior Code, § 500.04) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.19 CONTRACT.
   (A)   The rules, regulations and water rates named in this subchapter shall
be considered a part of the contract with every person, company or corporation
who is supplied with water through the water system of the city; and every
person, company or corporation by taking water shall be considered as
expressing his or her or their assent to be bound thereby.
(Prior Code, § 500.05)
   (B)   (1)   Whenever any of the rules and regulations or such orders as the
city may hereafter adopt, are violated, the water shall be shut off from the
building or place of the violation, (even though two or more parties are using
water through the same pipe), and shall not be let on again, except by order of
the Utilities Commission or its authorized agent and, upon payment of all
arrears of rent, the expense of shutting it off and putting it on (for which
the charge of $50 will be made), and such other terms as the Utilities
Commission may determine, and a satisfactory understanding with the party that
no further cause for non-compliance shall arise. The right is reserved by the
Utilities Commission to change the rules, regulations, from time to time, as
they may deem advisable, and to the Utilities Commission to make special rates
and contracts in all proper cases.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent or authorized agent of
the city to report to the Utilities Commission all cases of leakage, waste or
unnecessary profusion in the use of water, and each and every violation of any
ordinance of the city relative to the waterworks thereof, which may come to his
or her knowledge or notice; and the Superintendent or authorized agent of the
city shall each enforce the observance of this division (B) so far as they or
any of them have authority under the ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 500.06)
(Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.20 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES.
   Owners shall apply for the services desired upon an application, to be
furnished by the Commission, stating the legal description of the property to
be served, and the use to which the same is to be put (domestic, commercial or
industrial). The application must be accompanied by a permit fee as stated in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances, and shall be filed with the Clerk. The Clerk
shall forthwith forward a duplicate copy thereof to the Superintendent who
shall forthwith make an inspection of the owner’s premises and the proposed
service connections. If the use be other than domestic, the Superintendent may
require the owner to submit reasonable and suitable plans, showing all uses to
which the water is to be put, and all sewers, drains, traps and other
connections. If the same complies with the rules and regulations of the
Commission, the Superintendent shall endorse his or her approval on the
application and return same to the Clerk, who shall then issue a permit to the
owner.
(Prior Code, § 500.07) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.21 WATER SERVICES.
   Water will not be provided for any building, or private service pipe, except
on the order, in writing of the Utilities Commission or its duly authorized
agent, nor until the applicant shall have paid for the connection from the
street main to the street line. Plumbers are strictly prohibited from turning
water on to any service pipe, except upon the order or permission of the
Utilities Commission or its agent. This rule shall not be construed to prevent
any plumber admitting water to test pipes for that purpose only. When the water
has been turned on by the order of the Utilities Commission or its authorized
agent, no customer shall turn it off, nor permit it to be turned on, without
the written consent of the Utilities Commission or its agent.
(Prior Code, § 500.08) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.22 MATERIALS AND INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Construction of water service lines. All water service lines shall
include a shut-off and drain cock located at the owner’s curb line.
   (B)   Installation of meters.
      (1)   The meter shall be installed in the supply line at the nearest
practical point after the line enters into the principal building on the
owner’s premises.
      (2)   Stop and waste cocks shall be installed on each side of the meter
and all supply pipes shall be attached to the line on the house side of the
meter only.
   (C)   Check valves. Check valves shall be installed in all water connections
to steam boilers and in such other cases as deemed necessary by the
Superintendent. Safety and relief valves shall be installed on all boilers or
other steam apparatus connected with the water system where steam pressure may
be raise in excess of 50 pounds per square inch.
   (D)   Backflow device. A backflow device must be installed on all new and
replacement water lines at the meter.
(Prior Code, § 500.09) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.23 EXCAVATION.
   (A)   In making excavations in streets or highways for laying of service
pipe or making repairs, the planks, paving stones and earth removed must be
deposited in a manner that will occasion the least inconvenience to the public
and provide for passage of water along the gutters.
   (B)   No person shall leave any excavations made in any street or highway
open at any time without barricades, and during the night warning lights must
be maintained at the excavations.
   (C)   In refilling the opening after the service pipes are laid, the earth
must be laid in layers of not more than 12 inches in depth, and each layer
thoroughly rammed or puddled to prevent settling and this work, together with
the replacing of sidewalks, ballast and paving, must be done so as to make the
street as good, at least, as before it was disturbed, and satisfactory to the
Utilities Commission or its agent.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall make any excavation in any street or highway,
within ten feet of any laid water pipe, while the ground is frozen, or dig up
or uncover so as to expose to the frost any water pipe or sewers of the city,
except by special permission by the Utilities Commission or its agent.
      (2)   No person shall make any excavation in any street or highway for
the purpose of laying water pipe, or to tap any water or service pipe laid
down, without written permission from the Utilities Commission or its agent.
(Prior Code, § 500.010) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.24 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Every person taking water shall permit the members of the Utilities
Commission, or its authorized agents, at all hours to enter his or her premises
or buildings to examine the same, the pipes and fixtures; they must at all
times, frankly and without concealment, answer all questions put to them
relative to its consumption.
   (B)   All water and sewer installations on owner’s premises, either above or
below the ground, shall be inspected by the Superintendent as to both labor and
materials before the same are covered.
(Prior Code, § 500.011) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.25 WAIVER OF DAMAGES.
   It is expressly stipulated by the city that no claims shall be made against
it, by reason of the breaking or freezing of any service pipe or service cock;
nor, if from any cause, the supply of water should fail; nor from damages
arising from shutting off water to repair mains, making connections or
extensions; nor for any other purpose that may be deemed necessary; and the
right is hereby reserved to shut off the supply of water at any time, for the
purpose of repairs or any other necessary purpose, any permit granted or
regulations to the contrary notwithstanding. Whenever it shall become necessary
to shut off the water supply within any district of the city, the Utilities
Commission or its agent shall, if practical, give notice to each and every
consumer within the district of the time when the supply will be shut off.
(Prior Code, § 500.012) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.26 CHARGES.
   (A)   Applicants for water will be charged from the connection to the
service line for all trenching and service pipe, and the Utilities Commission
or its authorized agent shall have the power to make the arrangements with
plumbers or others as they may deem expedient to carry this division (A) into
effect.
(Prior Code, § 500.013)
   (B)   (1)   Charge established. For the purpose of providing funds for the
city’s wells, water treatment, water storage and water distribution systems,
and the plant and facilities connected therewith, and the payment of capital
charges represented by bonds, certificates of indebtedness or otherwise, which
may be used to finance the costs of additions or expansions to the facilities,
and the payment of reasonable requirements or reserves for replacement in
obsolescence thereof, there is hereby imposed upon each lot, parcel of land,
building or premises having any connection with the city’s public water system
a water availability charge (WAC), as hereinafter provided. The charge shall be
in addition to any other previous or future charge or assessment levied against
the property.
      (2)   Determination and administration of charge. The availability charge
as hereinabove authorized shall be imposed in addition to the user charges for
water service and shall be determined and administered as follows.
         (a)   Payment required.
            1.   Payment required prior to connection. Prior to the issuance of
the applicable permit and before connecting to the city’s water system, a city
water availability charge as hereinafter provided shall be paid.
            2.   Additional building permit. If, after the initial availability
charge is paid, an additional building permit is issued, the use of the
property changes or new water connection is made, the availability charge shall
be recalculated and any additional charges shall be paid.
            3.   Change by resolution. Any change in the city water
availability charge as hereinafter set forth shall be by Council resolution.
         (b)   Determination of charge. The amount of the availability charge
shall be determined by the City Council and set forth in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 500.014)
(Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.27 TAPPING MAINS.
   No person, excepting those having special permission, a master plumbers
license and completing the required permit application from the Utilities
Commission or its authorized agent will be permitted, under any circumstances,
to tap the mains or distributing pipes or valves therein. The kind and size of
the connection with the mains shall be specified in the permit or order of the
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 500.015) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017) Penalty,
see §
52.99
§ 52.28 LINES; RESPONSIBILITY.
   All expenses incurred in the installation, maintenance and replacement of
service lines shall be borne by the owner of the property to which service
connections are made. If the water supply line between one’s home/business and
the main service line connection begins to leak or breaks due to aging or the
natural effects of seasonal changes, the responsibility for the repairs to the
supply lines lies with the home or business owner. If the leak or break occurs
after the supply line connection to the main service line, the responsibility
for the repairs to the service line lies with the city.
(Prior Code, § 500.016) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.29 DISCONNECTION FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city’s form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $20.
(Prior Code, § 500.017) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.30 WATER RATES AND WATER RENTS.
   (A)   All rates and rents will be billed monthly and must be paid promptly
when due at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   If the rents are not paid by the stated due date, a 10% late fee will
be assessed on all unpaid charges and the city or its agent may, in such case,
order the water shut off forthwith.
   (C)   No water shall be furnished to consumers unless supplied through a
meter approved by the Utilities Commission, at the rates established and set
forth by the City Council in
Appendix A.
   (D)   The property owner is responsible for the water/sewer billing, however
at the request of the owner and upon completion of the rental unit request for
water/sewer services, billing will be sent to the renter of the premises.
Direct billing to the renter does not relieve the owner of responsibility, in
the event the renter fails to pay the bill, the property owner will be
responsible for the unpaid amount.
   (E)   Any charges which are delinquent by 60 days or more may be certified
by the City Clerk to the County Auditor for collection from the property owner.
The amounts so certified shall be extended by the County Auditor on the tax
rolls against the premises.
(Prior Code, § 500.018)
(Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)    After posting and publication, any person who violates §§
52.01 and
52.02 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor, subject to a fine
not to exceed $500. The first violation shall be subject to a written warning
only. The second violation shall be subject to a fine of $50 and a similar
amount on each additional day of violation. After the third violation, the
water utility will be disconnected at the street until the resident agrees to
comply with the restrictions. A separate $50 fee shall be assessed for all
reconnections through the water service.
(Prior Code, § 510) (Ord. 01-2023, passed 1-3-2023)
APPENDIX A: WATER RATES
   (A)   Schedule of water rates.
      (1)   Residential minimum: 1,000 gallons (all rates per month):
 
Base rate                $7
0 - 6,000 gallons        $2.79 per 1,000 gallons
6,001 - 12,000 gallons   $3.52 per 1,000 gallons
12,001 - 24,000 gallons  $4.38 per 1,000 gallons
24,001 - 40,000 gallons  $5.51 per 1,000 gallons
40,001 gallons and above $6.59 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (2)   Business/industrial/commercial minimum: 1,000 gallons (all rates
per month):
 
Base rate                $7
0 - 30,000 gallons       $3.51 per 1,000 gallons
30,001 - 60,000 gallons  $4.38 per 1,000 gallons
60,001 gallons and above $5.51 per 1,000 gallons
 
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings (all rates per month):
         (a)   Total water use in a multiple-family dwelling, which has only
one water meter for the entire dwelling, may exceed that of a single-family
dwelling. The required conservation rate at which the multiple-family
dwelling’s water use is billed must consider the number of residential units
within that multiple-family dwelling; and
         (b)   Multi-family dwellings use charge shall be derived by dividing
the total consumption of water by the total number of units in the dwelling and
applying the gallonage rates as set forth in the current city residential water
rate schedule. One unit base fee shall be charged for each unit in a multiple-
family dwelling.
   (B)   Supply of municipal water for snowmaking purposes. Water service rates
for the supply of municipal water for snowmaking purposes: the rate per 1,000
gallons of municipal water supplied for snowmaking shall be billed at the end
of the snowmaking season and computed at a rate of $2.25 per 1,000 gallons.
(Prior Code, Ch. 500, App. A) (Ord. passed 3-3-2015; Ord. passed 5-2-2017; Ord.
passed 3-6-2018; Ord. passed 5-7-2019)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER TREATMENT
Section
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Control by authorized representative
   
53.03   Use of public sewers required
   
53.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
53.05   Building sewers and connections; design
   
53.06   Resurfacing
   
53.07   Sidewalks, curbs and other street structures
   
53.08   Public wastewater treatment facilities
   
53.09   Breaking or damaging
   
53.10   Sewer availability charge
   
53.11   Sewer charge system
   
53.12   Powers and authority of inspectors
 
   
53.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Determination of sewer service charges (metered)
   
Appendix B:   Sewer rates and rents
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The point of a building which conveys wastewater to the
building sewer, beginning ten feet outside the building wall.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Wabasha, the
Utilities Commission or its authorized representative.
   CLERK. The duly appointed Clerk of the Commission.
   COMMISSION. The Utilities Commission of the city.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge to users of the wastewater treatment facility
for the purpose of repaying capital costs.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit of wastewater volume measured in
gallons per day at a strength not greater than NDSW.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Any entity, as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual (latest edition) as categorized, that discharges wastewater to the
public sewer:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   Any user whose discharges, singly or by interaction with other
wastes:
         (a)   Contaminate the sludge of the wastewater treatment system;
         (b)   Injure or interfere with the treatment process;
         (c)   Create a public nuisance or hazard;
         (d)   Have an adverse effect on the waters receiving wastewater
treatment plant discharges;
         (e)   Exceed NDSW limitations; and
         (f)   Exceed normal residential unit volumes of wastewater.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid water borne wastes from industrial or
commercial processes, excepting domestic sewage.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). Water other than wastewater that enters the sewer
system from the ground or from surface runoff, as defined in Minnesota Rules.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly
owned wastewater treatment facilities. § 307(b) of the Act, being U.S.C. § 1317
(b).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge pursuant to §§ 402 and 405 of the Act, being U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which flows into a body of surface water or ground water.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is not
used as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE (NDSW). Wastewater that is primarily
introduced by residential users with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 270
mg/l and total suspended solids (TSS) concentrations not greater than 320 mg/l.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS (OM&R). Expenditures necessary
to provide for the dependable, economical and efficient functioning of the
treatment facility throughout its design life, including operator training, and
permit fees. REPLACEMENT refers to equipment replacement costs, not the cost of
future replacement of the entire facility.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is used
primarily as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal. Also referred to as a SERVICE CONNECTION.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer designed to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residential, non-residential and industrial sources
together with minor quantities of I/I.
      (3)   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry unpolluted surface and
subsurface water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The total of the user charge and the debt service
charge.
   SLUG. A discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes,
more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. A permit issued by the MPCA pursuant to
M.S. § 115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system,
as defined by M.S. § 115.01, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The duly appointed Superintendent or overseer of the water
and sewer systems appointed by the Commission.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter that either floats
on the surface of, or is in suspension in water, wastewater or other liquids,
and is removable for laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater (latest edition).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards.
   USER CHARGE. A charge of users of a treatment facility for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried wastes from residential, non-
residential and industrial users, together with any ground water, surface water
and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES or TREATMENT FACILITIES. The land, devices,
facilities, structures, equipment and processes owned or used by the city for
the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation
of municipal wastewater, and the disposal of residues resulting from the
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 505.01) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015)
§ 53.02 CONTROL BY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
   The Utilities Commission of the city shall appoint an authorized
representative who shall have control and general supervision of all public
sewers and service connections in the community or sewer district and shall be
responsible for administering the provisions of this chapter to ensure that a
proper and efficient public sewer is maintained. The authorized representative
may delegate responsibilities to designated representatives.
(Prior Code, § 505.02) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015)
§ 53.03 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within 90 days of receiving official notification, the owners of all
properties within 300 feet of a sanitary sewer collection system shall install
a suitable service connection, at their own expense, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter, with the exception of the Coffee Mill Sewer
Extension Project #8283.
   (B)   All existing homes within the Coffee Mill Sewer Extension Project
#8283 may continue their current use of septic systems under the following
conditions.
      (1)   Within 60 days from the date hereof, the property owner utilizing a
septic system in Coffee Mill Sewer Extension Project #8283 shall have a city
approved state certified inspector inspect the owner’s individual septic system
and will do appropriate soil borings in the proximity of the drain field to
verify that the septic system is compliant with state regulations and state
law. In the event that the inspection shows that it is in compliance with state
law, the home owner may continue to use the septic system. Thereafter, a state
certified inspection shall be done every three years of each individual septic
system utilized in the project. Non-compliant septic systems shall connect to
the force main sewer system within six months from the date of the inspection
showing non-compliance. All costs relating to the inspection shall be borne by
each individual property owner and the city shall incur no cost thereof.
      (2)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under this chapter, the city will have the
connection made and shall assess the cost against the benefitted property.
      (3)   Except as provided thereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any private facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 505.03) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.03 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Before construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner
(s) shall obtain a written permit signed by the authorized representative. The
permit shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
representative’s satisfaction. A designated representative shall be allowed to
inspect any stage of construction. The applicant for the permit shall give
notification when ready for the system’s final inspection, and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 24 hours
of the receipt of notice.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall design, install, maintain, alter,
pump or inspect an individual sewage treatment system within the city without
first obtaining a license to do so from the state’s Pollution Control Agency. A
copy of the license shall be placed on file, in the office of the City Clerk,
for any person, firm or corporation desiring to design, install, maintain,
alter, pump or inspect individual sewage treatment systems within the city.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080 and
applicable local ordinances.
   (E)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the
community or sewer district.
   (F)   When the public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 90 days in compliance with this chapter and within 120 days
private wastewater disposal systems will be cleaned of all sludge. The bottom
shall be broken to permit drainage and the tank or pit filled with suitable
material.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA, the state’s
Department of Health or other responsible federal, state and local agencies,
(Prior Code, § 505.05) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS; DESIGN.
   (A)   (1)   No person(s) shall make any alterations to the public sewer or
any appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the
city. No private building drain shall extend beyond the limits of the building
or property for which the permit has been given.
      (2)   Any new connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities including,
but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5 and TSS as determined by the
authorized representative.
   (B)   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owners or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the city from any
loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (C)   (1)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
each building. Old building sewers may be used to service new buildings only
when they are found to meet all requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
wastewater shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
   (D)   The construction and connection of the building sewer to the public
sewer shall conform to the
requirements of the state’s Building and Plumbing Code, applicable rules and
regulations of the city and the materials and procedural specifications set for
the in the American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM) and the Water
Environment Federation (WEF) Manual of Practice No. 9. All such connections
shall be made gas- and water-tight and verified by proper testing to prevent I/
I.
   (E)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch designated for that property, if the branch is available
at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated “Y” branch in
the main sewer shall be made with a saddle connection as directed by the
Superintendent.
   (F)   The part of any structure below the elevation 681.00 mean sea level
shall not be connected to a public sewer if the Superintendent determines it is
possible for extraneous water to enter the structure below the elevation.
   (G)   No unpolluted water sources shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
   (H)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the Utilities
Commission when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of a designated
representative.
   (I)   An appropriate construction license is required to install a service
connection. Any person desiring a license shall apply in writing to the
Superintendent of Utilities, providing satisfactory evidence of the applicant’s
qualifications. If approved by the Superintendent of Utilities, the license
shall be issued by a designated representative upon the filing of a bond, as
hereinafter provided.
   (J)   A license for sewer service connection installation shall not be
issued until a $2,000 bond to the
community is filed and approved by the Utilities Commission. The licensee will
indemnify the city from all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by
reason of any opening in any street, alley or public ground, made by the
licensee or by those in the licensee’s employment.
   (K)   The cost of a license for making service connections is $150. All
licenses shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is
suspended or revoked by the Utilities Commission for any reasonable cause.
   (L)   The Utilities Commission may suspend or revoke any license issued
under this section for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the license;
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this section or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections; and/or
      (4)   Failure to adequately protect and indemnify the city and the user.
   (M)   It shall be the responsibility of the service line contractor to
investigate the location of all existing public utility lines including
telephone conduits, gas, water and sewer mains, and power conduits which may be
placed at the site of his or her operations. He or she shall serve written
notice on all owners of the utilities three days before work is begun at those
locations. In case any of the aforementioned public utilities are broken or
damaged in any way by the contractor’s operations, the utility shall be
notified immediately and the damage repaired without delay at no charge to the
city.
   (N)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work unless otherwise approved by the Superintendent. All
excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded with
barricades and lights as to protect the public from hazard.
   (O)   The trench shall be opened along the lines laid out by the
Superintendent. The width of the trench shall be such as to permit proper
placing and joining of the pipe. Construction operations shall be conducted in
a manner consistent with all applicable state and federal safety regulations.
   (P)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the
Superintendent when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her representative.
   (Q)   All trenches shall be backfilled as soon as practicable by the
contractor, without risk of injury to the pipe and structures. Selected
material free from rocks or lumps shall be placed by hand methods and tamped
carefully around and over the pipe to a depth of one foot above the top of the
pipe. The remainder of the backfill under the streets and alleys shall be
placed in six-inch layers. Each layer of backfill shall be compacted to a
density not less than 95% of maximum density as determined by the methods
prescribed in the current edition of the state’s Department of Transportation’s
Grading and Base Manual, which is hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this section as if fully set forth herein.
   (R)   At the time of compaction, the moisture content of the backfill
material shall be suitable for obtaining the specified density.
(Prior Code, § 505.09) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06 RESURFACING.
   (A)   Gravel streets and alleys.
      (1)   On aggregate surfaced streets, the top six inches of the trench
shall be filled and compacted with material meeting the state’s Department of
Transportation Specification 3138 for surfacing aggregate, which is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this section as if fully set forth
herein.
      (2)   The surface shall be crowned to the general contour of the existing
surface.
   (B)   Bituminous surfaced streets.
      (1)   Bituminous surfaced streets shall be restored to their original
condition and cross-section by use of base materials and bituminous mixtures
equal or superior to those in place. However, minimum thickness of the
bituminous resurfacing shall be not less than two inches, and the minimum
compacted thickness of the granular base in the trenched area shall be not less
than six inches. Patching shall be done in accordance with the appropriate
sections of the current state’s Department of Transportation standard
specifications as it may be applicable, which specifications are hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this section as if full set forth herein.
      (2)   (a)   The limits of the area of bituminous surface to be replaced
shall be as delineated by the Superintendent.
         (b)   In the final preparation of the area designated for patching,
the edges of the patches shall be carefully trimmed and trued by approved
methods and equipment to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
         (c)   Sawing along the final removal line will be required in all
cases.
   (C)   Concrete paved streets.
      (1)   The preparatory work required shall be performed generally in
accordance with the requirements stated in the appropriate sections of the
current State Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Removal
of Structures, Subgrade, Sub-Base and Base Construction and as herein further
specified, which specifications are hereby adopted by reference and made a part
of this section as if in full set forth herein.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided or directed by the Engineer, the concrete
work shall be done in accordance with the appropriate sections of the current
State Department of Transportation’s Standard Specifications for Concrete Work,
especially the following: 2201, Concrete Base, and 2301, Concrete Pavements,
which specifications are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
section as if full set forth herein.
      (3)   The final removal line shall be delineated by the Superintendent,
with due consideration being taken to the existing joint arrangement in the
area adjoining or in the vicinity of the street opening under consideration.
When any edge of an opening would be four feet or less from a joint, the
opening shall be extended to the joint.
      (4)   Sawing along the final removal line will be required in all cases
where the edge of the opening is not a joint line.
(Prior Code, § 505.11) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015)
§ 53.07 SIDEWALKS, CURBS AND OTHER STREET STRUCTURES.
   All sidewalks, curbs or other street structures displaced or damaged during
construction shall be repaired, relayed or replaced in a manner satisfactory to
the Commission. All rubbish, waste and surplus materials shall be removed from
the construction area immediately following completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 505.13) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 PUBLIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   No unpolluted water or storm water shall be discharged to the sanitary
sewer. The water shall be discharged only to storm sewers or to natural outlets
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies.
   (B)   No person(s) shall discharge any of the following substances to the
public sewer:
      (1)   Liquids, solids, gases or other substances that singly or by
interaction with others may cause fire or explosion;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances that may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer;
      (3)   Wastewater having a pH of less than 5.5 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive or caustic property capable of causing damage or
hazard; and/or
      (4)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants, as defined in § 307(a) of
the Water Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) and M.S. § 115.01,
subd. 20, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Discharges of the following substances shall be limited to
concentrations or quantities that will not harm the wastewater facility,
streams, soils, vegetation, ground water and will not otherwise create a hazard
or nuisance. The authorized representative may set limitations lower than the
prohibition limits outlined below. Consideration will be given to such factors
as the quantity of waste in relation to flows and velocities, material of
construction, the community’s NPDES and SDS permits, capacity of the treatment
plant, degree of treatability of wastes and other pertinent factors:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the treatment facilities to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will be detrimental to biological activity in the
treatment facilities;
      (2)   Wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils in excess of 100
mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65.6°C);
      (3)   A discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes,
more than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal
operation;
      (4)   Food wastes not properly shredded to such as degree that all
particles would be carried freely under normal flow conditions with no particle
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (5)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids;
      (6)   Wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process;
      (7)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids in quantities that
would cause disruption to the wastewater treatment facilities;
      (8)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes in concentrations that exceed limits
established by applicable state and federal regulations;
      (9)   Wastewaters with B0D5 or suspended solids levels that require
additional treatment, except as may be permitted by specific written agreement
with the city subject to §
53.05 of this chapter;
      (10)   Wastewater containing substances which cannot be treated to
produce effluent quality required by the permit or causes a violation of any
applicable local, state or federal regulation;
      (11)   In the event of discharges to the public sewers which contain
substances or possess characteristics prohibited in division (B) above and this
division (C) or which, in the judgment of the representative, may have a
deleterious effects to the treatment facility, receiving waters, soils,
vegetation or which create a hazard or nuisance, the representative may:
         (a)   Refuse to accept the waste;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b)
and all addenda thereof; and
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
      (12)   Require payment to cover all the added costs handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges; and
      (13)   If the representative permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design, installation, maintenance and efficient operation of
the facilities and equipment shall be at the owner’s expense and shall be
subject to review and approval by the city pursuant to the requirements of the
MPCA.
   (D)   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any manner
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in this section,
the national categorical pretreatment standards and any state or local
requirement.
   (E)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided at the
owners expense when, in the opinion of the representative, they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in
excessive amounts, any flammable wastes, sand, other harmful ingredients. All
interceptors shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of interceptors,
including proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate
means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal which are
subject to review by the representative.
      (2)   Any material removal and hauling must be performed by the owner’s
personnel or a currently licensed waste disposal firm and in compliance with
all applicable laws and regulations.
   (F)   Where required by the representative, industrial users shall install
and maintain, at their own expense, a suitable structure or control manhole
with such necessary meters and other testing equipment needed to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of wastewater. The manhole will be safe
and accessible at all times. The Utilities Commission may require submission of
laboratory analyses to illustrate compliance with this chapter any special
conditions for discharge established by the Utilities Commission or responsible
regulatory agency. All measurements, tests and analyses to which reference is
made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition
of Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the
American Public Health Association, and kept for a period of two years.
   (G)   (1)   Where required by the representative, users shall provide
protection from an accidental discharge of substances regulated by this
chapter. Where necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of
prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expense.
Detailed plans and operating procedures of the facilities shall be submitted to
the representative for review and approval prior to construction of the
facility. Approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not relieve use
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   Users shall notify the representative immediately if a slug or
accidental discharge of wastewater occurs in violation of this chapter.
Notification will allow measures to be taken to minimize damage to the
treatment facilities. Notification will not relieve users of liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the treatment facilities, or for fines imposed on
the city by any state or federal agency as a result of their actions.
      (3)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board
or other prominent place advising employees of the emergency notification
procedure in the event of a slug or accidental discharge.
   (H)   (1)   No person shall permit any substance or matter that may form a
deposit or obstruction of flow to be discharged into the public sewer. Whenever
any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, detrimental to the use of
the public sewer or unfit for the purpose of drainage, the owner shall make
repairs as directed by the representative.
      (2)   Each day after seven days that the owner neglects to make the
repairs shall constitute a separate violation of this section. The
representative may then cause the work to be done and recover related expenses
from the owner or agent by an action in the name of the city.
   (I)   In addition to penalties that may be imposed for violation of any
provision of this section, the city may assess against the user/owner the cost
of repairing or restoring sewers and associated facilities damaged as a result
of the discharge of prohibited wastes and may collect the assessment as an
additional charge for the use of the public sewer system.
   (J)   No statement contained in this section shall prevent any special
agreement or arrangement between the community or sewer district of the city
and any industrial user. As alternatives to an agreement, the city may issue
discharge permits to individual industrial users, or issue a general discharge
permit to all industrial users, or use any combination of the preceding two
alternatives in order to regulate the discharges of industrial users.
Industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
facility for treatment, subject to adequate payment by the industrial user;
provided that, national categorical pretreatment standards and the city’s NPDES
and SDS permit limitations are not violated.
(Prior Code, § 505.15) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 BREAKING OR DAMAGING.
   No person(s) shall willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment that is part of
the wastewater treatment facilities. Any person violating this provision shall
be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 505.16) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 SEWER AVAILABILITY CHARGE.
   (A)   Sewer availability charge (SAC) charge established. For the purpose of
providing funds for the city’s sewer treatment, collection systems and the
plant and facilities connected therewith, and the payment of capital charges
represented by bonds, certificates of indebtedness or otherwise, which may be
used to finance the costs of additions or expansions to the facilities, and the
payment of reasonable requirements or reserves for replacement in obsolescence
thereof, there is hereby imposed upon each lot, parcel of land, building or
premises having any connection with the city’s public water system a sewer
availability charge (SAC), as hereinafter provided. The charge shall be in
addition to any other previous or future charge or assessment levied against
the property.
   (B)   Determination and administration of charge. The availability charge as
hereinabove authorized shall be imposed in addition to the user charges for
sewer service and shall be determined and administered as follows.
      (1)   Payment required.
         (a)   Payment required prior to connection. Prior to the issuance of
the applicable permit and before connecting to the city’s sewer system, a city
sewer availability charge, as hereinafter provided, shall be paid.
         (b)   Additional building permit. If, after the initial availability
charge is paid, an additional building permit is issued, the use of the
property changes or new sewer connection is made, the availability charge shall
be recalculated and any additional charges shall be paid.
         (c)   Change by resolution. Any change in the city sewer availability
charge as hereinafter set forth shall be by Council resolution.
      (2)   Determination of charge. The amount of the availability charge
shall be determined by the City Council and set forth in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 505.18) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015)
§ 53.11 SEWER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   The city’s Utilities Commission hereby establishes a sewer
service charge system. All revenue collected from users of the wastewater
treatment facilities will be used for annual operation, maintenance,
replacement and capital costs. Each user shall pay a proportionate share of
operation, maintenance and replacement costs based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading.
      (2)   Charges to users of the wastewater treatment facility shall be
determined and fixed in a sewer service charge system (SSCS) developed
according to the provisions of this chapter. The SSCS adopted by resolution
upon enactment of this chapter shall be published in the local newspaper and
shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in the sewer service
rates and charges shall be adopted by Utilities Commission resolution and
published in the local paper.
      (3)   Revenues collected through the SSCS shall be deposited in a
separate fund known as the Sewer Service Fund (SSF).
   (B)   (1)   The community or sewer district of the city hereby establishes a
Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to receive all revenues generated by the
SSCS and all other income dedicated to the wastewater treatment facility.
      (2)   The SSF administered by a designated representative shall be
separate and apart from all other accounts. Revenue received by the SSF shall
be transferred to the following accounts established as income and expenditure
accounts:
         (a)   Operation and Maintenance;
         (b)   Equipment Replacement; and
         (c)   Debt Retirement for the treatment facility (if any).
   (C)   (1)   A designated representative shall maintain a proper system of
accounts and records suitable for determining the operation, maintenance,
replacement (OM&R) and debt retirement costs of the treatment facilities and
shall furnish the Utilities Commission with a report of the costs annually.
      (2)   At that time, the Utilities Commission shall determine whether
sufficient revenue is being generated for the effective management of the
facilities and department retirement. The Utilities Commission will also
determine whether the user charges are distributed proportionately. If
necessary, the SSCS shall be revised to ensure proportionality of user charges
and sufficient funds.
      (3)   In accordance with state requirements, each user will be notified
annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the sewer
service charge attributable to OM&R.
   (D)   Sewer service charges shall be billed on a monthly basis. Any bill not
paid in full 15 days after the due date will be considered delinquent. At that
time, the user will be charged a 10% penalty for the delinquent bill. The
penalty shall be computed as 10% of the original bill and shall be increased by
the same percent for every month the bill is outstanding. A $50 reconnection
fee will be charged if service has been discontinued due to a delinquent bill.
(Prior Code, § 505.19)
(Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord. passed 9-4-2012; Ord.
passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-2015)
§ 53.12 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Duly authorized employee(s) of the city, bearing proper credentials
and identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for inspection,
observations, measurement, sampling, testing, repair and maintenance in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Industrial users shall be required to provide information concerning
industrial processes that have a direct bearing on the type and source of
discharge to the collection system. An industry may withhold information
considered confidential. However, the industry must establish that the
information in questions might result in an advantage to competitors and that
the industrial process does not have deleterious results on the treatment
process.
(Prior Code, § 505.20) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord.
passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-
2015)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to design, install, maintain,
alter, pump or inspect any individual sewage treatment system in the city, or
cause the same to be done in contrary to or in violation of any provisions of
the individual sewage treatment standards embodied in this chapter. Each day
during which a violation of §
53.04 of this chapter is committed, continued or permitted, constitutes a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 505.05)
   (C)   (1)   Upon determination that a user has violated or is violating
applicable provisions of this chapter or related permits, the authorized
representative may issue a notice of violation. Within ten days of the
notification, the violator shall submit to the authorized representative an
adequate explanation for the violation and a plan for the correction and
prevention of the occurrences, including specific actions require. Submission
of a plan in no way relieves the violator of liability for any violations
occurring before or after the issuance of the notice of violation.
      (2)   Any violation is subject to a fine not exceeding $2,000. Each day
in which any violation occurs shall be deemed as a separate offense. The fines
may be added to the user’s next sewer service charge and will hence be subject
to the same collection regulations as specified in §
53.05 of this chapter. Users desiring to dispute a fine must file a request for
the authorized representative to reconsider within ten days of the issuance of
the fine. If the authorized representative believes that the request has merit,
a hearing on the matter shall convene within 45 days of the receipt of the
request.
      (3)   To collect delinquent sewer service charge accounts, the community
or sewer district may file a civil action suit or levy a lien against the
violator. Related attorney’s fees fixed by court order shall also be collected.
The violator shall be liable for interest on all balances at a rate of 18%
annually.
      (4)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the
city of reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 505.21)
(Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007; Ord. passed 9-4-2012; Ord.
passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed 3-3-2015)
APPENDIX A: DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES (METERED)
   (A)   (1)   Users of the wastewater treatment facilities shall be permitted
into one of the following classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Non-residential; and
         (b)   Industrial.
      (2)   Charges to users who discharge NDSW will be calculated on the basis
of metered water use.
   (B)   (1)   Each user shall pay operation, maintenance and replacement costs
in proportion to the user’s contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to
the treatment plant, with a minimum rate for loadings of BOD and TSS being the
rate established for normal domestic strength waste (NDSW) concentrations.
      (2)   The industrial users discharging only segregated NDSW can be
classified as non-residential users for the purpose of rate determination.
   (C)   Charges for residential and non-residential users will be determined
proportionately according to billable wastewater flow.
      (1)   Residential users. Billable wastewater volume for residential users
shall be calculated on the basis of metered water usage. The monthly billable
water usage will be based on usage in the first quarter of the calendar year.
The city may require residential users to install water meters for the purpose
of determining billable wastewater volume.
      (2)   Sewer minimum availability charge.
         (a)   Each customer shall be billed the current minimum sewer charge
in the event that the customer is not connected to city sewer, but there is a
city sewer connection available.
         (b)   Rates are as set forth in
Appendix B.
         (c)   Any premises not located within the corporate limits of the
city, which are connected or may hereinafter be connected to the sewer system
shall be charged at a rate equal to twice the in-city rate.
         (d)   The Utilities Commission reserves the right to set rates for any
designated sanitary district.
      (3)   Non-residential users. Billable wastewater volume of non-
residential users may be determined in the same manner as for residential
users; except that, if the city determines that there are significant seasonal
variations in metered water usage resulting in a proportionate increase in
wastewater volume, the billable wastewater will be:
         (a)   Calculated on the basis of quarterly water usage as recorded
throughout the year; or
         (b)   Calculated on the basis of metered wastewater flow. The city may
require non- residential users to install additional water meters or wastewater
flow meters as may be necessary to determine billable wastewater volume.
   (D)   For producers of normal domestic strength wastes:
Uomr = Comr/Tbwv
      Where:
      Uomr = Unit cost for operation, maintenance and equipment replacement in
$/Kgal
      Comr = Total annual OM&R costs
      Tbwv = Total annual billable wastewater flow in Kgal
   (E)   Local construction costs for the wastewater treatment facility will be
recovered through a debt service charge calculated in a manner consistent with
the user charge as follows: calculation of unit cost for debt service:
Uds = Cds/Tbwv
      Where:
      Uds = Cost for annual debt service ($/Kgal)
      Cds = Cost of annual debt service
      Tbwv - Total annual billable wastewater volume (Kgal)
   (F)   (1)   The sewer service charges established in this chapter will not
prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge wastes in
concentrations greater than NDSW or of unusual character (industrial users).
Special contractual agreements can be made with the users, or a discharge
permit issued to them, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The user pays OM&R costs in proportion to the user’s
contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment facility and no
user is charged at a rate inferior to the charge for normal domestic strength
wastes; and
         (b)   The sampling of wastewater shall be conducted in accordance with
the techniques established in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, latest edition.
      (2)   A study of unit costs of collection and treatment processes
attributable to flow, BOD, TSS and other significant loadings shall be
developed and used to determine the proportionate allocation of costs to flows
and loadings for industrial users.
   (G)   In the event that a user fails to pay his or her sewer rental fee
within a reasonable time as determined by the Commission, the fee shall be
certified by the Clerk and assessed against the property connected to the sewer
system and forwarded to the County Auditor for collection.
(Prior Code, Ch. 505, App. A) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007;
Ord. passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed
3-3-2015)
APPENDIX B: SEWER RATES AND RENTS
   (A)   A minimum charge per month based on 2,000 gallons of water usage per
month: $23.86; and
   (B)   After minimum per 1,000 gallons water usage: $11.93.
(Prior Code, Ch. 505, App. B) (Ord. passed 11-3-2004; Ord. passed 5-15-2007;
Ord. passed 9-4-2012; Ord. passed 1-7-2014; Ord. passed 8-5-2014; Ord. passed
3-3-2015)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Highway Regulation Act adopted by reference
   
70.02   Cutting across private property
   
70.03   Weight limits; Council action
   
70.04   Posting of signs
   
70.05   Special permits
   
70.06   Damage to streets
   
70.07   Driver’s licenses; vehicle registration
   
70.08   Sale of unclaimed vehicles
Emergency Street Closings
   
70.20   Reasons
   
70.21   Procedure
   
70.22   Temporary closing
   
70.23   Barrier; warnings
   
70.24   Emergency traffic restrictions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY REGULATION ACT ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   M.S. Ch. 169, the Highway Traffic Regulation Act, as it may be amended
from time to time, is adopted by reference and is as much a part of this
traffic code as if fully set forth herein. Any violation of M.S. Ch. 169, as it
may be amended from time to time, as herein adopted is a violation of this
traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 1100.01)
   (B)   For purpose of this traffic code, the terms defined in M.S. § 169.01,
as amended from time to time, as adopted herein, have the meanings given by
that section.
(Prior Code, § 1100.03)
§ 70.02 CUTTING ACROSS PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful to disobey the instructions of any official traffic-control
device within the meaning of this section, unless at the time otherwise
directed by a police officer, by driving into or across private property so as
to obviate the need to comply with the traffic-control device.
(Prior Code, § 1105.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 WEIGHT LIMITS; COUNCIL ACTION.
   The Council may, by resolution, prohibit for cause shown therein the
operation of vehicles upon any or all public streets or alleys within the city.
The Council may also, by resolution, impose restrictions as to the weight of
vehicles to be operated upon any streets or alleys, whenever the streets or
alleys, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climatic conditions may
be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles thereon is
prohibited or the permissible weights thereof reduced. The resolution adopted
shall designated the particular streets or alleys affected and shall set forth
the prohibitions or restrictions imposed on the streets or alleys.
(Prior Code, § 1105.05)
§ 70.04 POSTING OF SIGNS.
   Upon the adoption of any prohibition or restrictions as provided for in this
traffic code, the Street Commissioner shall cause to be posted or erected signs
plainly indicating the prohibition or restrictions at each end of the street or
alley or that portion of any street or alley affected thereby, and the
prohibition or restriction is effective after the signs are so posted or
erected.
(Prior Code, § 1105.07)
§ 70.05 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Any person desiring authority to move a vehicle or combination of vehicles
not in conformity with the provisions hereof may make written application
therefor to the Council and, upon good cause being shown therefor, the Council
may, in its discretion, issue such a permit. The application and permit shall
specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles and loads to be moved, the public
streets over which the same is to travel and the period of time for which the
permit is granted. The Council shall prescribe the conditions to govern the
operation of the vehicle or vehicles and may require an undertaking or other
security to compensate for any injury to any roadway or road structure. Every
permit shall be carried on the vehicle or combination of vehicles to which it
refers and shall be open to inspection by any police officer, official or
employee of the city. No person shall violate any of the terms or conditions of
the special permit.
(Prior Code, § 1105.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 DAMAGE TO STREETS.
   Any person driving any vehicle, object or contrivance upon any city street
is liable for all damages which the highway or highway structure may sustain as
a result of any illegal operation driving or moving of the vehicle, object or
contrivance, or as a result of operation driving, or moving any vehicle, object
or contrivance in excess of the maximum weight authorized by and pursuant to
the issuance of a special permit. When the driver is not the owner of the
vehicle, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or moving the same
with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner and driver
are jointly and severally liable for any damage. The damage may be recovered in
a civil action brought by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1105.11)
§ 70.07 DRIVER’S LICENSES; VEHICLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   M.S. §§ 168.011, 168.09, 168.11, 168.27 and 168.36, as they may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and is as much a
part of this traffic code as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   M.S. §§ 171.01, 171.02, 171.03, 171.05, 171.08, 171.09, 171.11,
171.17, 171.18, 171.20, 171.22, 171.23 and 171.24, as they may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and is as much a part of this
traffic code as if fully set forth herein.
   (C)   A violation of the statues adopted herein by reference is a violation
of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 1120.01)
§ 70.08 SALE OF UNCLAIMED VEHICLES.
   M.S. § 168B.10, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by
reference and is as much a part of this traffic code as if fully set forth
herein. A violation of the statutes adopted herein by reference is a violation
of this traffic code.
(Prior Code, § 1115.01)
EMERGENCY STREET CLOSINGS
§ 70.20 REASONS.
   In an emergency either the Mayor, Chief of Police or the Fire Chief shall
have full power and authority to close off any public street, alley or area to
any or all vehicular or pedestrian traffic, including parked cars and to
reroute any or all traffic when, in his or her discretion, it appears that such
an act is necessary to control or prevent a riot, to fight or prevent the
spreading of a fire, to control or remove explosives, to repair electrical
service, gas, water or sewer main, or to prevent damage to life, limb or
property that might result from any traffic or other hazard.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
§ 70.21 PROCEDURE.
   The Engineer or Street Commissioner, after obtaining the approval of the
Mayor, shall have full power and authority to close off or to prohibit
vehicular traffic on any public street or alley or portion thereof in order to
effect the orderly installation, repair, maintenance or snow removal of any
streets within the city. Prior to closing any street or alley, both the Fire
and Police Department shall be notified.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
§ 70.22 TEMPORARY CLOSING.
   The Chief of Police, after obtaining the approval of the Mayor, shall have
full power and authority to order the temporary closing off or the temporary
designation of any one-way traffic or to reroute any or all vehicular traffic
on any public street, alley or area when it appears to be necessary to control
vehicular or pedestrian traffic or crowds resulting from any large public
gathering, prior to, during and after any public or private convention,
assembly, parade, carnival, circus, political rally or sports events where the
use of any public street, park or other public property is necessary or
incidental to the holding or convening of any of the foregoing activities.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
§ 70.23 BARRIER; WARNINGS.
   Any street or area may be closed to vehicular or pedestrian traffic or to
parked cars at any hour by the stationing of a police officer at both ends of
the street or area, who shall then direct traffic, or during the daylight hours
by posting or erecting suitable signs, flags or barriers at both ends of the
street or area so designated, stating the restriction imposed and by whose
authority the restriction is imposed, or an night by the placing of suitable
barriers and warning lights or flasher signals at both ends of the street or
areas so designated. Drivers shall obey police officers and barriers, flags,
signs, lights or signals so placed.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 EMERGENCY TRAFFIC RESTRICTIONS.
   The city’s Mayor is empowered to make and enforce necessary traffic-control
restrictions in time of emergency; provided that, public notice of the
restrictions be published, or broadcast, or posted in at least two public
places, and further, that any restrictions be reviewed by the Council at the
next duly called Council meeting, following the establishment of the emergency
restrictions, at which time the restrictions may be continued or abandoned by
resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 1105.01)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
Traffic Regulations
   
71.01   Unreasonable acceleration
   
71.02   Truck braking
Parking Regulations
   
71.15   Definition
   
71.16   Truck parking
   
71.17   General rules
   
71.18   Parking prohibited
   
71.19   Cars for sale
   
71.20   Disabled vehicles
   
71.21   No parking zones
   
71.22   Limitations; violation
   
71.23   Off-street parking
   
71.24   Parking in alleys
   
71.25   Emergency conditions
   
71.26   Towing away vehicles
   
71.27   Seventy-two-hour parking
 
   
71.99   Penalty
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 71.01 UNREASONABLE ACCELERATION.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motor vehicle or other vehicle on
wheels which could ordinarily travel on public streets.
      PUBLIC OR PRIVATE WAY. Any street, avenue, highway, alley or other public
way, private driveway or other private way in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1140.01)
   (B)   Violation. No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with
an unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city
limits. Prima facie evidence of the unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be
unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by the tires or the
throwing of sand or gravel by the tires of the motor vehicle or both.
(Prior Code, § 1140.03)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02 TRUCK BRAKING.
   No dynamic engine brake shall be used or applied anywhere within the platted
portion of the city limits lying northerly and easterly of U.S. Highway #61.
Appropriate signs prohibiting the brake use shall be erected at all highway
entrances into the city accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 1105.14) Penalty, see §
71.99
PARKING REGULATIONS
§ 71.15 DEFINITION.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the term PARK includes the term “stand” or
“standing” and “stop” or “stopping”.
(Prior Code, § 1110.11)
§ 71.16 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park or permit to stand a truck-tractor or semi-
trailer, as defined in the state’s Highway Traffic Regulations Act, being M.S.
§§ 169.01 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time, upon any street or
highway or public property within any area of the city, with its refrigeration
units running or with its engine running, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m., except in those areas designated specifically for that purpose by
properly erected, authorized city signs.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park or permit to stand a truck-tractor or semi-
trailer, as defined in the state’s Highway Traffic Regulations Act, upon any
street or highway or public property within any residential zone in the city;
except parking shall be allowed in an emergency when the vehicle has mechanical
difficulties or if the vehicle is delivering goods or merchandise.
      (2)   In no event, however, shall the parking exceed 48 hours.
(Prior Code, § 1105.13) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.17 GENERAL RULES.
   (A)   Parallel to curb. Vehicles must be parked or stopped parallel with the
edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic, with the curb-side
wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the edge of the roadway and not
closer than four feet to another vehicle parked at the curb.
   (B)   Where no curb. Upon streets and highways not having a curb, a vehicle
stopped or parked must be stopped or parked parallel with and to the right of
the paved or improved or main traveled part of the street of highway.
   (C)   One-way road. On a one-way roadway, a vehicle must be parked parallel
with the front of the vehicle facing the same direction on the one-way street
as the traffic thereof is permitted to pass.
   (D)   Angle parking. Upon those streets which have been marked or signed for
angle parking, vehicles must be parked at the angle to the curb indicated by
the marks or signs.
(Prior Code, § 1110.01) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.18 PARKING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   A vehicle may not be parked, whether attended or unattended,
except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance
with the directions of a police officer or traffic-control device in any of the
places specified in this division (A):
         (a)   On a sidewalk or boulevard between sidewalk and roadway;
         (b)   In from of a public or private driveway or alley or within five
feet of the intersection of any public or private or driveway or alley with any
street or driveway;
         (c)   Within any intersection;
         (d)   Within ten feet of a fire hydrant;
         (e)   On a crosswalk;
         (f)   Within 30 feet upon the approach of any flashing school signal,
stop sign, traffic- control signal or school sign at the side of a roadway;
         (g)   Within a designated or marked bus stop;
         (h)   Within a 50-foot distance of the nearest rail of a railroad
crossing;
         (i)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of the entrance when properly sign-posted;
         (j)   Along side or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (k)   Upon any bridge or approach or other elevated structure upon a
street or highway or within a street or highway tunnel, except as otherwise
provided by ordinance; and
         (l)   At any place where temporary signs prohibit parking as long as
the signs are in place.
      (2)   It is unlawful to park a vehicle:
         (a)   So as to block a fire escape or the exit from any building; and
         (b)   Contrary to an order to proceed by a police officer directing,
controlling or regulating traffic.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to move a vehicle not owned by him or
her into any prohibited parking area or away from the curb to an unlawful
distance.
(Prior Code, § 1110.03)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or park a travel trailer
(including those that telescope or fold down), chassis mounted camper, motor
home, recreational vehicle or any trailer (including boat, utility and
snowmobile trailer) on any street, right-of-way or in a city owned parking lot
in the city for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.19 CARS FOR SALE.
   It is unlawful to place any vehicle on a highway to display the same for
sale or exchange. A vehicle shall be deemed to be displayed in violation on
this section when found standing upon a street or highway and bearing a sign
indicating that it is for sale or exchange.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.20 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this subchapter relating to stopping, standing and parking
shall not apply to the driver of any vehicle which is disabled for a reasonable
period of time while on the paved or unimproved or main traveled portion of a
street or highway in a manner and to an extent that it is impossible to avoid
stopping and temporarily leaving the disabled vehicle in the position.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.21 NO PARKING ZONES.
   It is unlawful to stop, stand or park a vehicle, except as otherwise
provided or unless directed to do so by a police officer, on any street or
highway where there is a no parking zone and the zone is marked by sign or
yellow curb.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.22 LIMITATIONS; VIOLATION.
   All parking within the city is subject to any limitations stated on any
authorized parking sign and a violation of any limitations stated thereon is a
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.23 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   It is unlawful to park a vehicle in any industrial, commercial or multiple
or single dwelling area where an off-street parking area or truck standing
spaces are provided. Vehicles shall use designated areas for parking, loading
or unloading.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.24 PARKING IN ALLEYS.
   No person shall park a vehicle within an alley in a manner or under such
conditions as to leave available less than ten feet of the width of the roadway
for the free movement of vehicular traffic and no person shall stop, stand or
park a vehicle within an alley, in such a position as to block the drive way
entrance to any abutting property.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.25 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Emergency declared. Whenever the Chief of Police or his or her
designee determines, in his or her discretion, that an emergency exists because
of snow fall of at least three inches in the city, freezing rain, sleet, ice,
drifts or other natural phenomena, he or she may declare an emergency to exist.
   (B)   Notice. Notice of the declaration of emergency and parking
restrictions shall be given by local radio, television, website, Facebook,
CodeRED, or other press. The notice shall specify the hour that the emergency
commences and shall last for a period of 24 hours.
   (C)   Parking prohibited. Beginning after the first notice of the emergency,
no vehicle shall be parked or left standing on any portion of a street, or
alley until or after that particular street or alley has been plowed and the
snow removed to the curb line.
(Prior Code, § 1110.05) (Ord. passed - - )  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.26 TOWING AWAY VEHICLES.
   Any vehicle parked in violation of this subchapter may be ordered removed
from any public street or alley by any police officer or city official and the
vehicle shall be towed away to any garage, service station or other place of
safe keeping as soon as possible to facilitate snow removal, street
maintenance, the orderly flow of traffic, firefighting or other lawful purpose.
The owner shall pay the costs of the towing and storage. The removal of a
vehicle by or under the direction of the police officer or other city official
shall not prevent the prosecution of a violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1110.07) (Ord. passed 5-1-2007) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.27 SEVENTY-TWO-HOUR PARKING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park a motor vehicle, as
defined in M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, on any street
or highway within the city for more than 72 consecutive hours. For the purposes
of enforcement of this section, any vehicle or trailer moved less than 50 feet
within a 72-hour period shall be deemed to have remained stationary.
   (B)   Any vehicle or trailer that has been cited by the police for a
violation of this section shall not be permitted to return to the public street
for parking in the block on either side of the street where the vehicle or
trailer was so cited within a period of 24 hours thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1110.09) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any violation of §
71.01 of this chapter shall be deemed to be a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1140.05)
   (C)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation violating §§
71.17 through
71.27 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1110.13)
      (2)   It shall be a misdemeanor for any person to remove a motor vehicle
from a storage facility, as per §
71.26 of this chapter, without paying to the city all towing and storage
charges incurred for the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 1110.07)
(Ord. passed 5-1-2007)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Motorized Golf Carts
   
72.01   Incorporation of statutes
   
72.02   Use of city streets
   
72.03   Applications
   
72.04   Permits
   
72.05   Equipment and operation
   
72.06   Liability
Snowmobiles
   
72.20   Definitions
   
72.21   Motor vehicle license required
   
72.22   Crossing by snowmobile
   
72.23   Traffic ordinances apply
   
72.24   Intersections
   
72.25   Persons under 18
   
72.26   Unlawful acts
   
72.27   Required equipment
   
72.28   Unattended vehicle
   
72.29   Emergency operation
   
72.30   Animals
All-Terrain Vehicles
   
72.45   Definitions
   
72.46   Permit expiration; term
   
72.47   Operation by adults
   
72.48   Use of city streets
   
72.49   Operation by minors
 
   
72.99   Penalty
MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
§ 72.01 INCORPORATION OF STATUTES.
   The provisions of M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended from time to time,
are herewith incorporated by reference.
(Prior Code, § 1150.10) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.02 USE OF CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Except those streets listed below, motorized golf carts may be
operated on all city streets only when a permit has been obtained pursuant to
this subchapter and the terms of this subchapter are complied with. Prohibited
streets:
      (1)   U.S. Highway #61; and
      (2)   MN State Highway #60.
   (B)   Motorized golf carts permitted for operation on city streets may be
used to cross a street listed above when the operator is traveling on a street
otherwise permitted and is crossing in a direction more or less perpendicular
to the roadway being crossed.
(Prior Code, § 1150.20) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.03 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Application form. Each application for a permit required by this
subchapter shall be made at City Hall upon a form as may be prescribed by the
city and shall be executed by the applicant.
   (B)   Information.
      (1)   Each application for a permit required by the provisions of this
subchapter shall include the following:
         (a)   Date of application;
         (b)   Name and address of applicant;
         (c)   Nature of the applicant’s physical handicap, if any;
         (d)   Model name, make, year and serial number of the motorized golf
cart;
         (e)   Current valid driver’s license;
         (f)   Insurance company policy number and liability limits (insurance
must be in the applicant’s name);
         (g)   Permit fee in an amount that may be prescribed from time to time
by resolution of the City Council; and
         (h)   Other information as may be required.
      (2)   The applicant must provide all information required above prior to
being issued a permit.
   (C)   False statements. It is unlawful for any person to intentionally make
any false statement or to intentionally omit any required information in the
completion of any application form. Any false statement or omission shall
render the application, or any permit issued pursuant thereto, invalid and of
no effect.
(Prior Code, § 1150.30) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.04 PERMITS.
   (A)   Issuance. Permits issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be issued
by the city or its designated representative upon a determination that all
conditions precedent to the issuance or renewal of the permit have been met
including the payment of the applicable fees and proof of insurance. The permit
must be placed and visible on the rear left side of the vehicle.
   (B)   Appeal. A person aggrieved by the denial of a permit or the imposition
of terms in connection with the granting of a permit may appeal the action to
the City Council. To appeal a decision, the applicant must file a written
notice of appeal with the City Clerk within five days of being informed of the
decision to deny the issuance of a permit or the terms upon which the permit
will be issued. The City Council will then review the decision to determine
whether or not the action was correct. The City Council may, in connection with
its review of the action either affirm, reserve or modify the actions. The
applicant shall be advised by mail of the date and time that the Council will
hear the applicants appeal.
   (C)   Term. Except as is otherwise specifically provided, each permit issued
pursuant to the provision of this chapter shall expire on 12-31-2020.
   (D)   Transfer permit. No permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall be
transferable by the permittee to another person.
   (E)   Duplicate permits. The city or its designated representative shall
issue a duplicate for any permit issued pursuant to this subchapter, upon the
filing of an affidavit of the permit holder stating that the original permit
was lost or destroyed and upon payment of a duplicate permit fee. Each
duplicate permit shall be clearly marked as a duplicate. The duplicate permit
fee shall be set from time by resolution of the City Council.
   (F)   Suspension and revocation. The Chief of Police may either suspend a
permit up to 60 days or revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, for
good cause, including a finding that the permittee has failed to comply with
any applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to the operation of
the permit holder.
   (G)   Automatic revocation. No permit issued or renewed pursuant to this
subchapter shall be deemed valid until all permit fees have been fully paid and
any required insurance provided. Any permit issued or renewed upon payment by a
check shall be deemed conditionally issued until the city has received final
credit to its bank account in the full amount of the permit fees. In the event
the check tendered by the permittee is dishonored or refused by any financial
institution, the provisionally issued permit shall be deemed void as of the
date of the check’s dishonor or refusal by a financial institution.
(Prior Code, § 1150.40) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.05 EQUIPMENT AND OPERATION.
   (A)   All motorized golf carts permitted for use on city streets must have
the following equipment attached and maintained in good working order:
      (1)   Brakes;
      (2)   Slow-moving vehicle emblem described in M.S. § 169.522, as it may
be amended from time to time; and
      (3)   Rear view mirror.
   (B)   Every person operating a motorized golf cart has all the rights and
duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, except when these
provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf carts and except as
otherwise specifically provided in M.S. § 169.045, subd. 7, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Motorized golf carts may only be operated on designated roadways from
sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather or when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog or other conditions or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons and vehicles on
the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   The Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted hereunder
upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the provisions of
this subchapter or M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, or if
there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the motorized
golf cart.
   (E)   If a permitted vehicle is disabled through mechanical failure or for
needed repairs, the permit may be temporarily transferred to another golf cart
for a seven-day period upon approval by the Chief of Police.
   (F)   All permits shall be issued for a specific golf cart and individual.
The current permit shall be carried in the golf cart, indicating the number and
year for which it is issued.
   (G)   A permit will not be issued to any person whose driver’s license has
been suspended or revoked or if there is evidence that the operator cannot
safely operate a golf cart.
(Prior Code, § 1150.50) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.06 LIABILITY.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as an assumption of
liability by the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result
from the operation of a motorized golf cart by a permit holder or the failure
by the city to revoke the permit.
   (B)   All golf carts and their drivers must carry liability insurance with
limits as required by M.S. § 65B.49, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, at all times when operating a golf cart on a public street.
(Prior Code, § 1150.60) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 72.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. Only applies to the area within the corporate limits of the City of
Wabasha north and east of the following boundaries: U.S. Highway #61 and 12th
Street, extended westerly to a point where it would intersect with new Highway
#61 and extended easterly to the easterly boundary of the corporate limits of
the City of Wabasha.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is removed
from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from
the driving mechanism.
   NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than roadways or driveways (private or public),
parking lots and other areas the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or
not.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 1130.01) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.21 MOTOR VEHICLE LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as herein specifically permitted an authorized, it is unlawful for
any person to operate a snowmobile or not licensed as a motor vehicle within
the limits of the city:
   (A)   On the portion of any right-of-way of any public highway, street,
road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel; except that, a snowmobile
may operate upon the most right-hand lane of a municipal street or alley and
may in passing or making a left turn operate on other lanes which are used for
vehicle traffic in the same direction, for purposes of going to or returning
from a non-highway area of permissible operation, by the most direct route.
Snowmobiles may also be operated upon the ditch bottom or the outside bank of
trunk, county state-aid and county highways where the highways are so
configured within the corporate limits;
   (B)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
   (C)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
   (D)   On private property of another without specific permission of the
owner or person in control of the property; and
   (E)   On any other public place, except as may be specifically permitted by
other provisions of the city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1130.03) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.22 CROSSING BY SNOWMOBILE.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
   (C)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
   (D)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only at
an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or highway;
and
   (E)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 1130.05) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.23 TRAFFIC ORDINANCES APPLY.
   City traffic ordinances shall apply to the operation of snowmobiles upon
streets and highways, except for those relating to required equipment and
except those which, by their nature, have no application.
(Prior Code, § 1130.07) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.24 INTERSECTIONS.
   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the right-of-way
to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection, or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard.
(Prior Code, § 1130.09) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.25 PERSONS UNDER 18.
   (A)   (1)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-
aid, county highway or city street as the operator of a snowmobile.
      (2)   A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age,
may operate a snowmobile on streets and highways as permitted under this
subchapter and make a direct crossing of the streets and highways only if he or
she has, in his or her immediate possession, a valid snowmobile safety
certificate issued by the Commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile
to be operated contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1130.11) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.26 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile not licensed for
highway use when operating on natural terrain within the limits of the city:
   (A)   At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as defined
in M.S. § 169.121, as it may be amended from time to time, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference;
   (B)   At a rate of speed greater than 20 mph;
   (C)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or heedlessly
in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
   (D)   During the hours from 10:00 p.m. to 8:00 a.m. of any day; except that,
during the prohibited hours of operation, the operation shall be permitted when
returning to the city for the purpose of following the most direct practical
route possible from a point outside the limits of the city to the residence of
the operator or passenger and, except during the prohibited hours of operation,
the operation shall be permitted for the purpose of leaving the city by the
most direct practical route possible to go to a specific destination outside of
the city;
   (E)   So as to tow any person or thing, except through use of a rigid tow
bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile; and
   (F)   Within 100 feet of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or sliding
area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other persons or
property.
(Prior Code, § 1130.13) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.27 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile any place within the
limits of the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on
a snowmobile;
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any condition of operation;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition;
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to one-
half before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear lamp
attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and vehicles
at a distance of a least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness and under
normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring
rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming snowmobile operator. It
shall also be equipped with at least one red tail lamp having a minimum
candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from
a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal
atmospheric conditions;
   (E)   Snowmobiles shall fly a pennant flag of red or blaze material, of a
size not less than 12 inches by 12 inches by nine inches, at a height of not
less than six feet from ground level at any time when the vehicle is operated
on public streets; and
   (F)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward of
the handlebars or steering device of a snowmobile and at the highest practical
point on any towed object, as to reflect light at a 90- degree angle.
(Prior Code, § 1130.15) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.28 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   Every person leaving a snowmobile on a public place shall lock the ignition,
remove the key and take the same with him or her.
(Prior Code, § 1130.17) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.29 EMERGENCY OPERATION.
   Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this subchapter, a snowmobile may be
operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
(Prior Code, § 1130.19) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.30 ANIMALS.
   It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal
with a snowmobile.
(Prior Code, § 1130.21) (Ord. passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES
§ 72.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATV or ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle as that term is defined by
M.S. § 169.011, subd. 42, as it may be amended from time to time, which is
designed for use primarily on surfaces or terrain outside of the traveled
portion of public roadways as those terms are defined by this subchapter. This
definition is specifically intended to include, but not be limited to, such
common terms for ALL- TERRAIN VEHICLES such as “three-wheelers”, “four-
wheelers”, “dune buggies” or “ATVs”. This definition is specifically intended
to exclude passenger vehicles, motorcycles or motorized bicycles as those terms
are, defined by M.S. § 169.011, subd. 44, 45 and 52, respectively, as they may
be amended from time to time. This definition is also specifically intended to
exclude riding lawn mowers.
      (1)   CLASS 1 ATV. An ATV with a total width of 50 inches or less from
outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim.
      (2)   CLASS 2 ATV. An ATV with a total width greater than 50 inches, but
not more than 65 inches, from outside of tire rim to outside of tire rim.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of an ATV.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
ATV.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property in or title
to ATV, entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PARADE. Any organized procession or march for which permission to organize
or march has been obtained from the City Council.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
   TRAVELED PORTION OF PUBLIC ROADWAYS. The traveled portion of a public
roadway shall be defined in the case of paved, public roads as that portion
which is actually paved. In the case of unpaved public roadways, the TRAVELED
PORTION shall refer to that portion actually used for vehicular travel and
shall exclude ditches, slopes and backslopes supporting the traveled portion of
the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 1132.1) (Ord. passed 11-14-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2014; Ord.
passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.46 PERMIT EXPIRATION; TERM.
   Except as is otherwise specifically provided, each permit issued pursuant to
the provision of this subchapter shall expire on 12-31-2020 and every three
years thereafter.
(Prior Code, § 1132.2) (Ord. passed 11-14-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2014; Ord.
passed 11-7-2017)
§ 72.47 OPERATION BY ADULTS.
   (A)   Operation on public roadways restricted. It shall be unlawful to for
any person to operate, permit the operation or be in actual physical control of
any ATV upon the traveled portion of any public roadway within the city, except
as provided in M.S. §§ 84.92 to 84.929, as they may be amended from time to
time, or as specifically authorized and permitted under the terms of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Permit requirements. Any person who intends to operate an ATV on any
public roadway within the limits of the city shall obtain an operation permit
from the city or its representative. The permit must be placed and be visible
on the rear left side of the vehicle. The city shall issue an operation permit
upon verification by the applicant that the applicant has:
      (1)   A valid driver’s license;
      (2)   Proof by the applicant of liability insurance which covers the ATV;
      (3)   Proof that the applicant has registered the ATV with the state’s
Department of Natural Resources;
      (4)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached to the ATV and which
reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or
similar device on an ATV. The apparatus shall not be audible for a distance
more than 500 feet from the place or places where the devices or apparatus will
be located;
      (5)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
ATV under any condition of operation;
      (6)   At least one clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness and under normal atmospheric conditions,
when the ATV is operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility. The headlamp
shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle. The ATV shall also be equipped with at least one red tail
lamp having a minimum candlepower of sufficient intensity to exhibit a red
light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours of
darkness under normal atmospheric conditions; and
      (7)   Vehicle identification sticker issued by the city.
   (C)   Restrictions on operation of ATVs on public roadways following permit
issuance. Once a permit has been issued to any person, it shall be unlawful for
that person to drive any ATV on the portion of any right-of-way of any public
highway, street, road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except a
person may operate upon the most right-hand lane of a municipal street or alley
unless otherwise herein or hereafter restricted, and may, in passing or making
a left turn, operate on other lanes which are used for vehicle traffic in the
same direction; and they may also be operated upon the ditch bottom or the
outside bank of trunk, county, state-aid and county highways which are so
configured within the corporate limits. No travel is permitted on any state
highway.
(Prior Code, § 1132.3) (Ord. passed 11-14-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2014; Ord.
passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.48 USE OF CITY STREETS.
   (A)   Except those streets listed below ATVs may be operated on all city
streets only when a permit has been obtained pursuant to this subchapter and
the terms of this subchapter are complied with. Prohibited streets:
      (1)   U.S. Highway #61; and
      (2)   MN State Highway #60.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate an ATV:
      (1)   On a public sidewalk providing for pedestrian traffic;
      (2)   On private property of another without written/dated/signed
permission of the owner or person in control of the property, which permission
shall be on the operator’s person while operating the ATV;
      (3)   Upon any school grounds without written/dated/signed permission of
responsible school authorities, which permission shall be on the operator’s
person while operating the ATV;
      (4)   On any other public place or ground, except as may be specifically
permitted by other provisions of the city code;
      (5)   At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as
defined in M.S. § 169.121, as it may be amended from time to time, which is
hereby incorporated herein by reference;
      (6)   At a rate of speed greater than the posted speed limit;
      (7)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or
heedlessly in disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
      (8)   During the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., Sunday through
Thursday, and 12:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m. on other days; except that, during the
prohibited hours of operation, the operation shall be permitted when returning
to the city for the purpose of following the most direct practical route
possible from a point outside the limits of the city to the residence of the
operator or passenger and, except during the prohibited hours of operation, the
operation shall be permitted for the purpose of leaving the city by the most
direct practical route possible to go to a specific destination outside of the
city;
      (9)   Without a lighted headlight and tail light at night;
      (10)   In any trees, nursery or planting that damages or destroys growing
stock or on any private property without the permission of the owner thereof;
      (11)   Entering any intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any
vehicles or pedestrians, which are at the intersection, or so close to the
intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard;
      (12)   Leaving an ATV in a public place without locking the ignition,
removing the key and taking the same with him or her;
      (13)   Intentionally driving, chasing, running over or killing any animal
with a ATV; and/or
      (14)   All passengers and riders under the age of 18 years must where a
safety helmet.
   (C)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to an ATV used by
governmental agencies in the pursuit of their duties or during emergency use.
Nothing in this subchapter shall prohibit the use of ATVs within the right-of-
way of a state trunk or county state aid highway or upon public lands or waters
under the jurisdiction of the Commissioner of Natural Resources in an organized
contest or event subject to the consent of the official or board having
jurisdiction over the highway or public lands or waters. Nothing in this
subchapter shall prohibit the use of ATVs within the right-of-way of a state
trunk or county state aid highway or upon other public streets in the city
during a parade.
   (D)   (1)   When, at any time, an ATV is operated within the right-of-way of
a public roadway, but outside of the traveled portion, or when an ATV is
operated as permitted in crossing a public roadway, all other traffic
regulations of the city and the state, including, but not limited to, those
pertaining to operating or being in actual physical control of a motor vehicle
while intoxicated shall be applicable to the operators of the ATVs.
      (2)   Furthermore, for the purpose of enforcing traffic regulations at
any time that any ATV is within the right-of-way of a public roadway or
lawfully upon the traveled portion of a public roadway, the ATV shall be deemed
to be a motor vehicle, and subject to all rules, ordinances, statutes and
regulations pertaining thereto as the same term is defined by M.S. § 169.011,
subd. 42, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1132.4) (Ord. passed 11-14-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2014; Ord.
passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.49 OPERATION BY MINORS.
   ATV operators who are minors and who wish to operate ATVs within the city
limits are subject to the following conditions in addition to those required
for adult operators.
   (A)   No minor under 16 years of age shall be permitted to operate an ATV in
the city.
   (B)   All minors at least 16 years of age, but less than 18 years of age,
may operate an ATV subject to the restrictions set forth above if the minor
possesses a valid driver’s license and wears a safety helmet approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 1132.5) (Ord. passed 11-14-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2014; Ord.
passed 11-7-2017) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §§
72.01 through
72.06 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1150.70)
   (C)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
72.45 through
72.49 of this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1132.6)
(Ord. passed 11-14-2012; Ord. passed 5-6-2014; Ord. passed 11-7-2017)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Restricted parking
SCHEDULE I. RESTRICTED PARKING.
   It is unlawful to operate or park any vehicle or combination of vehicles
upon any public street or alley within the city where the gross weight on any
single axle exceeds 10,000 pounds. This weight limitation does not apply to
emergency vehicles and public service type vehicles. Furthermore, this weight
limitation does not apply to the following streets designated as truck routes
in the city:
Street Location
Street                      Location
8th Street West             From Alleghany Avenue to Highway #60 (Pembroke
                            Avenue)
10th Street                 From Church Avenue to Walnut Avenue
10th Street West            From Church Avenue to Highway #61
Alleghany Avenue            From Second Street to Main Street
                            From Hiawatha Drive West to 8th Street West
Bailey Avenue               From Second Street to Main Street
Bridge Avenue               From Hiawatha Drive to Main Street
Church Avenue               From Industrial Court to 10th Street and from
                            Industrial Court to 920 feet south
Commerce Street             From Walnut Avenue to Pembroke Avenue
Forth Grant Boulevard       From Pembroke Avenue west and continuing as Fifth
                            Grant Boulevard to Highway #61
Gambia Avenue               From Tenth Street West to Fifth Grant Boulevard
Hiawatha Drive              From Highway #61 to the south corporate limits
Industrial Court            From Church Avenue to the cul-de-sac
Maiden Avenue               From Sixth Street to Grant Boulevard
Main Street                 From Bridge Avenue to Bailey Avenue
North Drive                 From Shields Avenue to Church Avenue
Pembroke Avenue/Highway #60 From Highway #61 to Lawrence Boulevard
Rocque Avenue               From Fifth Grant Boulevard to the south end of
                            Rocque Avenue
Second Street               From Arch Avenue to Hiawatha Drive
Seventh Street              From Gambia to the propane gas serve access road
                            From Sixth Street to Grant Boulevard
Shields Avenue              From North Drive to Highway #61
                            From Highway #61 to 10th Street West
Walnut Avenue               From Second Street to Main Street
                            From 10th Street to Commerce Street
 
(Prior Code, § 1110.05)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
94.   PUBLIC LIBRARY
      
95.   CEMETERIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs and cats
   
90.03   Non-domestic animals
   
90.04   Farm animals
   
90.05   Kennels
   
90.06   Nuisances
   
90.07   Seizure of animals
   
90.08   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
90.09   Diseased animals
   
90.10   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.11   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs)
   
90.12   Basic care
   
90.13   Breeding moratorium
   
90.14   Enforcing officer
   
90.15   Interference with officer
   
90.16   Beekeeping
   
90.17   Herding horses, cattle and the like
Impoundment
   
90.30   Running at large
   
90.31   Biting animals
   
90.32   Reclaiming
   
90.33   Unclaimed animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animals as nuisances, see
Ch. 91
   Parks and Recreation, see
Ch. 93
   Zoning, see
Ch. 162
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees and other animals
associated with a farm, ranch or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not de- scented), raccoon, squirrel or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this subchapter, including, but not
limited to, bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain or otherwise
restrained or confined.
   CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   CHICKEN COOP. A structure for housing chickens made of wood or other similar
materials that provides shelter from the elements.
   CHICKEN RUN. An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   FEEDLOT. A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings intended for
the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of animals and specifically
designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate; or, where the
concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be maintained
within the enclosure. Open lots used for the feeding and rearing of poultry
(poultry ranges) shall be considered to be ANIMAL FEEDLOTS.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Police Department for the release of
any animal that has been taken to the pound. A RELEASE PERMIT may be obtained
upon payment of a fee in accordance with that regular license requirement if
the animal is unlicensed, payment of a release fee and any maintenance costs
incurred in capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be as
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council, but not less
than $25 the first time an animal is impounded, $50 the second time it is
impounded and $75 for the third and each subsequent time the same animal is
impounded. For the purpose of a RELEASE PERMIT, any change in the registered
ownership of an animal subsequent to its impoundment and release shall reset
that animal’s impoundment count to the beginning of the fee scale.
(Prior Code, § 705.01) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015)
§ 90.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors or keeps a dog or cat, or the parents or the
guardians of any such person under 18 years of age, to run at large. Dogs or
cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and
under the control and direction of a responsible person so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats
Prohibited”.
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept, harbored or maintained by their owners in
the city shall be identified with an identification tag stating owner’s name
and phone number or an electronic tracking device (microchip).
      (2)   The identification provisions of this division (B) shall not apply
to dogs or cats whose owners are non-residents temporarily within the city, nor
to dogs or cats brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any
dog or cat show, nor shall this provision apply to “seeing eye” dogs properly
trained to assist blind persons for the purpose of aiding them in going from
place to place.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this section insofar as
running at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding and proof of anti-rabies vaccine
is concerned.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies, with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner’s name and address, the animal’s name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine and the
veterinarian’s signature. Upon demand made by the Clerk-Treasurer or a police
officer, the owner shall present for examination the required certificate(s) of
vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where certificates are not presented,
the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have seven days in which to present
the certificate(s) to the Clerk-Treasurer or police officer. Failure to do so
shall be deemed a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 705.02) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   It shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor or offer for sale
any non-domestic animal within the city limits. Any owner of such an animal at
the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to remove the
animal from the city, after which time the city may impound the animal as
provided for in this chapter. An exception shall be made to this prohibition
for animals specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the
handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into the city as part of
an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory or a
licensed show or exhibition.
(Prior Code, § 705.03)
§ 90.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall not be allowed in any platted areas of the city, except
for the following.
   (A)   An exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought
into the city as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific
research laboratory or a licensed show or exhibition.
   (B)   The raising of hen chickens is permitted with a special permit issued
annually by the city. The following applies only to areas within the city that
are platted. Where other livestock raising is specifically allowed under this
section and
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances, the following does not apply.
      (1)   No permit shall be issued for the keeping of any rooster chicken on
any premises.
      (2)   A permit may be revoked or suspended by the city for any violation
of this chapter or any other city code following procedures detailed in §
90.99 of this chapter.
      (3)   Application for a permit must include:
         (a)   A scaled site plan diagram indicating the location of a the
chicken coop and/or run on the property and the approximate size and distance
from adjacent structures and property lines and neighboring residences; and
         (b)   A construction plan or photograph of the coop to be used for the
keeping of chickens.
      (4)   Maximum number of chickens allowed is based on lot size as follows.
Additional chickens are allowed in some zoning districts with a conditional/
interim use permit: (See
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.)
 
Lot Size in Square Feet Maximum Number of Chickens
Under 8,500             3
8,500 - 11,000          4
11,001 - 43,560         5
43,561 and above        6
 
      (5)   Chickens must be confined at all times while in the city in a
chicken coop and chicken run.
      (6)   All chicken coops and chicken runs must be screened from
neighboring properties, streets or public ways with a solid fence or landscaped
buffer (including conifers for screening during winter months) with a minimum
height of four feet or as high as the chicken coop if taller than four feet.
      (7)   Any coop and run shall be at least 25 feet from any residential
structure on any adjacent or nearby premises.
      (8)   Any coop and run shall be set back at least 15 feet from property
lines.
      (9)   All chicken coops as accessory structures must meet the
requirements of the building and zoning codes.
      (10)   Attached fenced-in chicken runs must be at least ten square feet
per chicken or be designed to be movable. Movable runs must be moved on a
regular basis in order to maintain vegetation.
      (11)   Attached fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed 20 square feet per
chicken
      (12)   Attached fenced-in chicken runs must not exceed six feet in total
height.
      (13)   Chicken runs may be enclosed with wood and/or woven wire materials
and allow chickens to contact the ground.
      (14)   Chicken feed and manure must be kept in rodent- and raccoon-proof
containers.
      (15)   Chicken coops must either be:
         (a)   Elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between
the ground surface and framing/floor of the coop; or
         (b)   The coop floor, foundation and footings must be constructed
using rodent-resistant concrete construction.
      (16)   No chicken confinement meeting the definition of “feed lot” is
allowed within any platted area of the city.
      (17)   No person who owns, keeps or harbors hen chickens shall be allowed
to permit the premises where the hen chickens are kept to be or remain in an
unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious condition or to permit the premises to be in
such condition that noxious odors are carried to adjacent public or private
property.
      (18)   Any chicken coop and run authorized by permit under this chapter
may be inspected at any reasonable time by a city animal control officer or
other agent of the city.
(Prior Code, § 705.04) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.05 KENNELS.
   (A)   The keeping of more than three dogs or four cats on the same premises,
whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose kept, shall
constitute a “kennel”; except that, a fresh litter of pups or kittens may be
kept for a period of three months before the keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel”.
   (B)   Because the keeping of more than three dogs or four cats on the same
premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the area
by way of smell, noise, hazard and general aesthetic depreciation, the keeping
of more than three dogs or four cats on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city unless a
special permit is first obtained from the city.
   (C)   Permits for kennels shall only be issued where allowed as specified in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 705.06) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. HABITUAL BARKING shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least three minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage. Any animal covered by this division (B) may be
impounded as provided in this section or a complaint may be issued by anyone
aggrieved by an animal under this section, against the owner of the animal for
prosecution under this section.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on his or
her own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 705.07) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.07 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or animal control officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal; provided that, the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
animal control officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.06(A) of this chapter, the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.12 of this chapter or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
90.01 of this chapter;
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog, inhumane treatment of the animal or that the animal
was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
property and those attempts have either failed or have been ignored;
   (E)   The seizure will not involve the forced entry into a private
residence. Use of a pass key obtained from a property manager, landlord,
innkeeper or other authorized person to have the key shall not be considered
unauthorized entry; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the dog is not possible.
(Prior Code, § 705.08) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015)
§ 90.08 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or police officer, an animal
presents an immediate danger to the health and safety of any person, or the
animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the animal is in the
process of attacking any person, the officer may destroy the animal in a proper
and humane manner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend the animal
and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §§
90.30 through
90.33 of this chapter. If the animal is destroyed, a charge of $75 to dispose
of the animal is payable by the owner of the animal. If the animal is found not
to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to the
owner or keeper in accordance with §
90.32 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 705.09)
§ 90.09 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by him or her, nor permit to run at large
in the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health
and safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person or police officer. The police officer
shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If the animal is found
to be diseased in such a manner so as to be a danger to the health and safety
of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be painlessly killed and
shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or keeper of the animal killed
under this section shall be liable for at least $75 to cover the cost of
maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian
examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
within the meaning of this section, the animal shall be released to the owner
or keeper free of charge.
(Prior Code, § 705.10) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.10 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 (commonly
referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner’s property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DOG.  Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability
of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
      (5)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the city or the pound.
      (6)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (7)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      (8)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      (9)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control officer
or other authorized city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog’s offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has
changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may rescind
the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52 (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city
upon transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a hearing officer or court
of law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries
inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or insurance policy shall
provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will be made unless the city
is notified in writing by the surety company or the insurance company at least
ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs as
established in the ordinance establishing fees and charges.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner’s expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner’s expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established in the ordinance to
establish fees and charges.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner’s property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk in writing if the
dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died. The
notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner’s name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter’s obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the dog’s
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by division (E) of this section;
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by subsection (D)(1)(e) of this section;
      (6)   The dog’s microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under division (G) of this section may be
reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance costs, and
presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this section have
been met. A dog not reclaimed under this division within seven days may be
disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city for maintenance costs. A
person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent disposition of the dog
by posting a security in an amount sufficient to provide for the dog’s
maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the city within seven days
of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time,
regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death
of the dog, until such time as the hearing officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. § 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52, as
they may be amended from time to time;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for
destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city within 14 days after
notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so within 14 days of the
date of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing. The owner
must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog's owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog's owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to division (J) of this section and upon a
finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner’s right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog’s tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog’s tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog’s potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog’s aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of divisions(D),
(E) or (F) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§ 347.51,
347.515 or 347.52, as they may be amended from time to time;
         (b)   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205(4), as it may be amended from
time to time; or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to
division (J) of this section.
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in
subsections (1) or (2) of this division (M), unless specifically approved with
or without restrictions by the city, no person in the household is permitted to
own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under division (M)(1) of this section that prohibits a person from
owning a dog, and annually thereafter, the person may request in writing to the
Police Chief that the city review the prohibition. The city may consider such
facts as the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the
prohibition, any criminal convictions, or other facts that the city deems
appropriate. The city may rescind the prohibition entirely or rescind it with
limitations. The city also may establish conditions a person must meet before
the prohibition is rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully
completing dog training or dog handling courses. If the city rescinds a
person’s prohibition and the person subsequently fails to comply with any
limitations imposed by the city or the person is convicted of any animal
violation involving unprovoked bites or dog attacks, the city may permanently
prohibit the person from owning a dog in this state.
   (O)   Penalties.
      (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of divisions (D), (E), or (F) of this section is guilty of a
gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates division (M) of this section, whether an
owner or household member, is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 705.11) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.11 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person’s animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by §
90.10.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in division (C)(3) of this section;
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under division (J)(2)
of this section, may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under division (J)(1) of this section, is fulfilled. An
animal not reclaimed under this section within 14 days may be disposed of as
provided under division (F) of this section, and the owner is liable to the
city for costs incurred in confining and impounding the animal.
   (K)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under this section with the same animal, the animal
must be seized by animal control. The owner may request a hearing as defined in
division (G) of this section. If the owner is found to have violated the
provisions for which the animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall
order the animal destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall
pay the costs of confining the animal. If the person is found not to have
violated the provisions for which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim
the animal under the provisions of division (J)(3) of this section. If the
animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days after the date the
owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the animal may be disposed
of as provided under division (F) of this section and the owner is liable to
the animal control for the costs incurred in confining, impounding and
disposing of the animal.
§ 90.12 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter and sufficient food and water for their comfort.
   (B)   Any person not treating his or her pet in a humane manner will be
subject to the penalties provided in §
90.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 705.12) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.13 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat, except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
(Prior Code, § 705.13) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.14 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Chief of Police is hereby designated as the city’s animal control
officer appointed to enforce the provisions of this chapter. In the officer’s
duty of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, he or she may, from time to
time, designate assistants.
(Prior Code, § 705.14) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015)
§ 90.15 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICER.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder or interfere with any person
authorized by the Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and convey
them to the pound while engaged in the operation; nor shall any unauthorized
person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or attempt to take
from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance with this
chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the officer in the
discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 705.15) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.16 BEEKEEPING.
   It shall be, and is hereby made, unlawful for any person or persons within
the limits of the city to keep or maintain or suffer to be keep or maintained
on his or her or their land or premises or upon any premises used or occupied
by him or her or them, any hive or hives or swarm or swarms within the limits
of the city at any point or place on the premises within a distance of 300 feet
from any private residence or within a distance of 600 feet from any church
building, school building or other public edifice either built or in the
process of construction and keeping or maintaining of any hive or hives, swarm
or swarms of bees within the limits of the city, and within the distance
aforesaid from any of the residences or buildings is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 710.01) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.17 HERDING HORSES, CATTLE AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Herding of animals. It shall be hereafter, from the date of taking
effect of this section, unlawful for the owner of or any other person having
the charge, control or custody of any horse, cow, ox, steer, heifer, calf, hog,
shoat or other similar animal, to herd or to direct or engage any other person
or persons to herd any such animal or animals in or upon the streets, alleys or
public grounds of the city, or to tether or picket the animal or animals
therein or thereon, or to suffer or permit any such animal or animals to be
herded or picketed in or upon any of the streets, alleys or public grounds of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 715.01)
   (B)   Riding and driving of horses. It shall be unlawful for any person to
ride or drive, or cause to be ridden any horse, mare, gelding or mule, through
any street, alley or way, or over or upon any grounds, squares or other public
places within the corporate limits of the city faster than at the rate of six
mph.
(Prior Code, § 715.05)
Penalty, see §
90.99
IMPOUNDMENT
§ 90.30 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby declared a public nuisance.
Any police officer may impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any
animal found running at large and shall give notice of the impounding to the
owner of the dog or other animal, if known. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal is
not claimed within the time specified in §
90.32 of this chapter, it will be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as
otherwise provided in this subchapter, it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy or
otherwise cause injury to any animal, including dogs and cats running at large.
(Prior Code, § 705.05) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.31 BITING ANIMALS.
   Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live modified rabies vaccine
and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has been punctured or the
services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in the city pound for a
period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the owner. The animal may
be released at the end of the time, if healthy and free from symptoms of
rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However, if the owner of
the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of need for the
confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine the animal
for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the owner’s
choosing, not outside of the county in which the city is located, and provide
immediate proof of the confinement in a manner as may be required, the owner
may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live modified
rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a certificate from
a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or other animal to the
owner’s property.
(Prior Code, § 705.05) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015) Penalty,
see §
90.99
§ 90.32 RECLAIMING.
   (A)   All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment
and sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
90.10 of this chapter, in which case it shall be kept for seven regular
business days or the times specified in §
90.10 of this chapter, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in
which case it shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner
reclaimed by their owners or keepers as provided by this subchapter.
   (B)   In case the owner or keeper shall desire to reclaim the animal from
the pound, the following shall be required, unless otherwise provided for in
this code or established from time to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of a $25 release fee and receipt of a release permit from
the police;
      (2)   Payment of maintenance costs of $10 per day, plus any additional
costs identified by the city while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog or cat is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee and
valid certificate of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (C)   The $25 release fee is in addition to the release permit fee specified
by §
90.01 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 705.05) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015)
§ 90.33 UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   At the expiration of the times established in §
90.32 of this chapter, if the animal has not been reclaimed in accordance with
the provisions of this subchapter, the officer appointed to enforce this
chapter may let any person claim the animal by complying with all provisions in
this chapter, or release the animal to an animal shelter, or cause the animal
to be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and shall properly dispose of the
remains thereof.
   (B)   Any money collected under this chapter shall be payable to the Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 705.05) (Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Separate offenses. Each day a violation of §§
90.01 through
90.15 and
90.30 through
90.33 of this chapter is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such under this division (B).
      (2)   Misdemeanor. Unless otherwise provided, violation of §§
90.01 through
90.15 and
90.30 through
90.33 of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up
to $700 or imprisonment for up to 90 days.
      (3)   Petty misdemeanor. Violations of §§
90.02,
90.07,
90.14 and
90.15 of this chapter are petty misdemeanors punishable by a fine up to $200.
(Prior Code, § 705.16)
   (C)   (1)   Any person who keeps or harbors chickens in the platted portion
of the city limits without obtaining or maintaining a current permit or after a
permit has been suspended or revoked, as per §
90.04 of this chapter, shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is issued a permit, but is found in violation of any
provision of §
90.04 of this chapter, shall also be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
      (3)   (a)   The city shall determine the conditions that exist which
violate §
90.04 of this chapter. Upon identification of a violation, notification by
certified, registered letter or personal service shall be issued to the owner
of the property. The notice shall identify the nature of the violation of §
90.04 of this chapter, and order that the nuisance be abated within ten days of
receiving notice. Upon receipt of the notification, the property owner shall
proceed with alleviating the nuisance.
         (b)   The property owner shall have the right to a hearing before the
City Council provided that any request for hearing must be submitted in writing
to the city no later than ten days following receipt of the violation notice.
         (c)   If no public hearing is requested within ten days of receiving
the notice and the property owner has not proceeded with alleviating the
nuisance, the city shall proceed with making the necessary arrangements to have
the cited violation abated. Any and all costs that may be incurred by the city
to alleviate the cited violation shall be the property owner’s obligation.
         (d)   If the property owner requests a hearing in compliance with the
provisions established by this division (C)(3), a hearing before the City
Council shall be scheduled. Following the hearing, the City Council shall, by
resolution, determine whether a violation has occurred. Upon finding of a
violation, the City Council shall order that the cited conditions be abated.
         (e)   If an appeal to the City Council’s order is not made within ten
days following the City Council’s decision and the property is not brought into
compliance as ordered, the city will initiate action to eliminate the
violation.
         (f)   The city shall proceed with making the necessary arrangements to
have the cited violation abated. Any and all costs that may be incurred by the
city to alleviate the cite violation shall be the property owner’s obligation.
         (g)   Failure by the property owner to reimburse the city for any
reasonable costs incurred concerning the enforcement of this division (C) shall
be cause to certify the costs to the County Auditor as a special assessment
against the property.
(Prior Code, § 705.04)
   (D)   Any person violating §
90.06 of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $10 or five hours of
public lands fecal clean-up. Any person who is found guilty of subsequent
violations of §
90.06 of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of at least $25, but not more
than $50.
(Prior Code, § 705.07)
   (E)   If any person shall offend against the provisions of §
90.16 of this chapter, a police officer of the city may, at any time, serve a
written notice upon him or her requiring him or her to abate the nuisance by
removing the hive or hives or swarm or swarms from his or her premises within
24 hours from the date of the service of the notice upon him or her and, in
case he or she fails to do so within that time, it shall be the duty of the
police officer to enter upon the premises and himself or herself abate the
nuisance by removing the hive or hives or swarm or swarms of bees from the
premises.
(Prior Code, § 710.03)
(Ord. passed 11-9-2010; Ord. passed 11-3-2015)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Nuisances; definition; abatement
   
91.02   Board of Health
   
91.03   Health Officer; duties and responsibilities
Public Nuisances
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   Public nuisances prohibition
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.18   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
91.19   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.20   Noise violations
   
91.21   Nuisance parking and storage
   
91.22   Special provisions – inoperable motor vehicles
   
91.23   Abatement of nuisances
   
91.24   Abatement procedure
Weeds
   
91.35   Definition
   
91.36   Nuisance
   
91.37   Notice
   
91.38   Assessment
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 NUISANCES; DEFINITION; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The following acts are declared a public nuisance:
      (1)   To engage in any business or activity which is dangerous, hurtful,
unwholesome, offensive or unhealthy to the neighborhood, or which constitutes
an annoyance to the persons in the neighborhood, or is detrimental to the
property in the neighborhood;
      (2)   To permit, suffer or maintain, or fail to remove any offensive,
nauseous, hurtful, dangerous, unproperly dispose of garbage, sewage, waste,
debris or any other unwholesome or offensive substance, liquid or thing, upon
one’s premises, or to drop, discharge, pass, deposit or otherwise deliver the
same upon the premises of another or public property;
      (3)   To construct or maintain or permit or suffer upon one’s property
any billboard, sign, poster or advertisement, or to post, publish, promulgate,
broadcast, display, issue or circulate any insulting, profane or abusive
emblem, sign or device, or blasphemous written or printed statement, calculated
or such as is likely to cause a breach of the peace; and
      (4)   To display, circulate, issue or publish any slanderous or obscene,
immoral or lewd pictures, posters, literature, writings, drawings or oral
statements.
(Prior Code, § 1210.01)
   (B)   A nuisance defined herein may be abated after 48 hours’ notice to
remove the same by an officer of the city. The notice describing the property
upon which the nuisance is situated and the nature of the nuisance to be abated
shall be given to the owner of occupant of the property the notice shall be
published in a local newspaper and shall state that the nuisance shall be
abated within the designated time of not less than 60 hours from the time of
publication.
(Prior Code, § 1210.03)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   Purpose. A Board of Health be appointed by the City Council, whose
duty it shall be, in connection with the City Physician to be also appointed by
the City Council, to inquire into, and report from time to time, in relation to
the health of the city, and to provide proper accommodation, medicines and
other necessaries for the destitute persons who shall be afflicted with any
contagious disease to provide for the removal of the persons (if they shall
deem necessary) to a building or buildings so situated as to obviate as much as
possible the spread of the disease and also to report every such case to the
next regular meeting of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4A.01)
   (B)   Board membership. The Board of Health shall consist of three citizens
of the city and the City Physician, either of whom shall form a quorum to
transact business in the absence of the others, and to take immediate steps in
reference to any call which may seem to require immediate attention and incur
any reasonable expense on the part of the city, and the Board of Health are
hereby fully authorized to adopt all and every sanitary measures as, in its
opinion, the health of the city may require.
(Prior Code, § 4A.03)
   (C)   Compensation. The compensation of the Board of Health shall be
hereinafter determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 4A.05)
§ 91.03 HEALTH OFFICER; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Water supplies. The Health Officer shall direct from time to time that
samples of water be taken from private wells, from public wells and the public
water system, from wells used by more than one family and from places to which
the public is invited, frequents or is served. He or she shall have these
samples analyzed and catalogued according to the standards established by the
state’s Board of Health and make recommendations regarding the water samples as
he or she shall deem necessary to the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 400.01)
   (B)   Food, drugs and beverages. The Health Officer may inspect all premises
engaged in the manufacture, processing, distribution, storage or sale of food,
beverages, drugs, liquors, milk, ice or any other product or products that are
intended for human consumption, as well as the utensils, dishes, containers
used in the cleaning, preparation, serving or eating of any of the
aforementioned products to ensure the purity and cleanliness of the same or the
sanitation, cleanliness of the premises, personnel and facilities and to
recommend to the owner or proprietor such changes as he or she deems necessary.
(Prior Code, § 400.03)
   (C)   Inspection powers. The Health Officer shall have the right to enter
any building, conveyance or place where contagion, infection, filth or other
source or cause of preventable disease exists or is reasonably suspected for
the purpose of inspection at any reasonable hour and during an emergency at any
hour. He or she shall have the authority to report and condemn as unfit for
human habitation until corrected any building or residence which does not have
an adequate supply of potable running water or where there is not in operation
a flush toilet connected to the public sanitary sewer where the sewer is
available.
(Prior Code, § 400.05)
   (D)   Authority. The Health Officer shall have the authority to order the
abatement of any condition or nuisance that shall constitute a public health
threat, cause of sickness or safety hazard to the general public, including
children, or to persons working, living, playing or residing at or near the
property or object in question. He or she shall have the right to quarantine
any person or persons, building or structure when necessary. He or she shall
have the power to order the removal or to proscribe areas containing dead or
diseased animals, decayed or decaying vegetable matter, poisons, filth,
explosives or dangerous substances or conditions dangerous to life or limb, or
the extermination of rodents or vermin or any other disease-producing materials
or the breeding of germs, harmful bacteria or insects, including flies.
(Prior Code, § 400.07)
   (E)   Abatement of nuisances.
      (1)   The Health Officer shall in the event the owner, proprietor,
occupant or agent refuses to obey his or her order, leave a written notice of
any dangerous, harmful, unhealthy or offensive condition existing with the
Clerk setting forth:
         (a)   Name of violator (if known);
         (b)   Location;
         (c)   Nature of condition existing; and
         (d)   The type of corrective action necessary.
      (2)   The Clerk shall cause a police officer to personally serve the
notice on the owner, proprietor, occupant (if available) or on the agent (if
known), otherwise to post the notice on the premises. All notices shall contain
the following: in the event of failure to remove, abate, correct or eliminate
the above condition as directed by the Health Officer within ten days from this
date, then the city shall abate the dangerous, harmful, unhealthy or offensive
condition at the expense and cost to the owner of the real property, not to
exceed $100, and any violator shall be subject to all the penal provisions of
this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 400.09)
   (F)   Power of arrest. The Health Officer shall have the power of arrest for
violation of this section and any violation of state laws or regulations of the
state’s Board of Health having the force and effect of law.
(Prior Code, § 400.11)
   (G)   Non-interference. It is unlawful to obstruct, interfere with or impede
the Health Officer in the performance of his or her official duties or to
remove any sign posted by order of the Health Officer relating to any area or
building without the prior approval of the Health Officer or the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 400.13)
Penalty, see §
91.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 91.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DETERIORATED STRUCTURES. Any structure or part of any structure which
because of fire, wind or other disaster, or physical deterioration is no longer
habitable, nor useful, that is not in the process of being restored.
   JUNK CARS. Any unlicensed, unregistered or inoperable vehicle stored in the
open.
   JUNK/RUBBISH. Any material or substance stored in the open or not enclosed
in a building which does not serve, nor is it intended to serve, any useful
purpose or the purpose for which it was originally intended, including, but not
limited to: refuse; empty cans; bottles; debris; used furniture; unused
appliances; machinery parts; motor vehicle parts; remnants of wood; decayed,
weathered or broken construction material no longer usable; metal; or any cast
off materials.
   UNSAFE BUILDINGS. Any building or structure which is structurally unsafe,
does not provide adequate egress, is dangerous to human life or constitutes a
hazard to safety, health or public welfare by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation, obsolescence, fire hazard, disaster damage or abandonment.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For the purpose of this subchapter, a person that does any of
the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this subchapter to
be a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except otherwise
authorized and permitted by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses; and
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice that is not removed from public sidewalks within 24
hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to
fall;
   (B)   All limbs, trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which
prevent people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an
intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this subchapter or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds or people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings, grass clippings, leaves and other similar
structures over streets and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public
safety, or not constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rainwater, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, junk
cars, junk or rubbish, household appliances, automobile bodies or other
materials in a manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes, vermin
or the rank growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in a manner
creating fire, health or other safety hazards from such accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in such
other conditions as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)    Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding one-
half footcandle as measured on the property line of the property where the
lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle
when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   Any deteriorated structure or unsafe building or structure which have
not been maintained in a safe and healthy condition under the state’s Building
Code; and
   (U)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public health, safety,
peace or welfare:
   (A)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this subchapter.) PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected
by a person using their unaided hearing faculties. Continuous or frequent noise
above 70 decibels between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. could be considered a
nuisance;
   (B)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this subchapter by reference; and
   (C)   No person shall engage in or permit construction activities involving
the use of any kind of electric-, diesel- or gas-powered machine or other power
equipment, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on any
property of large numbers of vehicles, materials, supplies or equipment not
customarily used for the permitted purpose of the site in violation of the
requirements set forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of public streets for parking;
      (4)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ use and enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; and
      (5)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on any property within
the front yard.
      (2)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of cars and trucks on residential property in the front
yard that is not paved or on a graveled parking surface for more than 72 hours.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 SPECIAL PROVISIONS – INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store
or abandon any motor vehicle, that is apparently inoperable, which is defined
as follows:
      (1)   A missing or defective part that is necessary for normal operation
of the vehicle;
      (2)   Has not been properly licensed within the state for at least six
months; or
      (3)   Is not equipped for lawful operation on a public street or highway.
   (C)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which
does not foster complaints from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible as allowed by zoning district and performance standards found in
Chapter 162.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.23 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   City officials may apply and enforce any provision of this subchapter
relating to public nuisances within this jurisdiction. Any peace officer or
other designated city official shall have the power to inspect private premises
and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance
of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
life and safety, no peace officer or designated city official will enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident or other person in control of the
property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or
order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
§ 91.24 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Unless a different procedure is specifically authorized by this code or
other applicable law, and except as otherwise provided under divisions (B), (C)
and (D) below, the following procedure shall apply to abatement of public
nuisances.
   (A)   Notice. When the City Administrator or the City Administrator designee
responsible for enforcement, including, but not limited to, the Police Chief,
the City Clerk, the Building Official and police officers, determines that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists on real property in the city, the
City Administrator or the City Administrator’s designee shall notify in writing
the owner and occupant or other responsible party of that fact and order that
the nuisance be terminated and abated. The notice shall be served upon the
owner of the real property and the occupant, if other than the owner, either
personally or by first class mail supported by an affidavit of mailing sent to
the last known address of the owner and occupant of the property. Failure of
the party to receive the notice does not invalidate the service of the notice.
Notice to the owner shall be satisfied by notice to the person listed as the
taxpayer on the county’s tax records. A notice tag shall also be posted on the
real property in a conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the dwelling/
building situated on the real property where the dwelling/building number or
address is displayed. If the real property is not occupied, the owner is
unknown, or no other responsible party can be reasonably identified, notice may
be served by posting it on the property for a period of at least 72 hours. The
notice must state:
      (1)   The property location of the public nuisance;
      (2)   The nature of the public nuisance, with reference to the
appropriate code provision(s);
      (3)   The corrective action that must be taken to abate the nuisance and
a reasonable amount of time within which the nuisance is to be abated;
      (4)   That if the owner, occupant or other responsible party does not
comply with the notice within the time specified, the city may provide for
abating the nuisance itself by entering upon the property and taking the
corrective actions identified in the notice following the appeal period;
      (5)   That the owner, occupant or other responsible party has the right
to appeal the designation as a public nuisance by submitting a request in
writing to the City Clerk before the earlier of:
         (a)   The date by which abatement of the identified nuisance must be
completed as stated in the notice; or
         (b)   Seven calendar days after service of the notice, whichever is
sooner.
      (6)   That the city may assess its costs incurred in abating the nuisance
against the property in accordance with this section and applicable law
   (B)   Appeal. The owner, occupant or other responsible party served with a
notice under division (A) above may appeal the nuisance designation to the City
Council by the time provided in the notice, typically 30 days, by submitting a
request to appeal in writing to the City Clerk. If a timely appeal is
submitted, the matter must be scheduled for a hearing before the City Council.
A notice of the hearing must state the date, time and location of the City
Council hearing; must be served in the same manner as the abatement notice; and
must be given at least ten days before the hearing. After holding the hearing,
the City Council may issue an order requiring abatement of the nuisance
consistent with division (C) below. Failure to timely appeal constitutes waiver
of such right to appeal and hearing upon the nuisance designation.
   (C)   Abatement.
      (1)   Abatement procedures. If the City Council, after hearing an appeal
under division (B) above, orders abatement of the nuisance, or if no timely
appeal is submitted and the nuisance is not abated as required in the notice of
abatement within the deadline given in the notice of abatement, then the city
may enter onto the property on which the nuisance exists and cause the same to
be abated or removed by the city in any manner it deems appropriate in
accordance with the corrective actions stated in the notice of abatement.
Abatement may include, but shall not be limited to, removal; cleaning; painting
of exterior surfaces; extermination; cutting; mowing; snow removal; grading;
sewer repairs; water repairs; draining; securing; boarding unoccupied
structures; barricading or fencing; removing dangerous portions of structures,
junk, debris or materials; removal of equipment, materials and vehicles; and
demolition of dangerous structures or abandoned buildings in addition to any
other corrective actions authorized by state law, regulations or ordinance. If
deemed necessary by the City Administrator, the city may seek summary
enforcement of the abatement order in the district court by causing a copy of
the abatement order and notice of motion for summary enforcement to be served
on the owner and occupant in the manner provided for service of a summons in a
civil action, or alternatively obtain an administrative search and seizure
warrant and abate the nuisance.
      (2)   Summary abatement. The City Administrator or the City
Administrator’s designee responsible for enforcement may provide for abating a
public nuisance pursuant to this division (C) without following the standard
abatement procedure required in divisions (A) and (B) above when:
         (a)   There is an immediate threat to the public health or safety;
         (b)   There is an immediate threat of serious property damage; or
         (c)   A public nuisance has been caused by private parties on public
property. If the city summarily abates the nuisance under this division (C)(2)
(c), the enforcing officer must reasonably attempt to notify the owner,
occupant or other responsible party of the intended summary abatement action in
advance of such action, and thereafter must serve written notice of the owner’s
right to appeal the cost recovery for such summary abatement to the City
Council in the manner required for service of the abatement notice required in
division (A) above. An appeal of a summary abatement under this division (C)(2)
shall be limited to the issue of cost recovery by the city.
      (3)   Major Abatement. When the City Administrator or the City
Administrator’s designee determines that the cost of abating a nuisance will
exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith estimate determined by the
city, the standard abatement procedure provided in division (A) above shall
apply as altered in the following manner.
         (a)   The abatement notice must provide that if the noticed party does
not abate the nuisance as provided in the notice within the time specified in
the notice, the matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing.
         (b)   The abatement notice must specify the date, time and location of
the hearing before the City Council.
         (c)   The city must cause notice of the date, time and location of the
hearing before the City Council to be published at least ten days before the
hearing and allow any parties who wish to be heard an opportunity to address
the City Council during the hearing.
      (4)   Abatement of junk motor vehicle nuisance. The owner of the real
property on which a junk motor vehicle is located shall be responsible to
remove the junk motor vehicle to a duly licensed junk yard or other authorized
place of deposit or storage within ten days of a notice/demand by the city. The
term “junk motor vehicle” is defined in §
91.15.
         (a)   Notice. The notice/demand shall be served upon the owner of the
real property either personally or by first class mail, supported by an
affidavit of mailing sent to the last known address of the person(s) listed as
the taxpayer on the county’s tax records. If the registered owner of the junk
motor vehicle can be ascertained, notice shall also be served on said person(s)
in like manner. A notice tag shall also be posted on the real property in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the dwelling/building situated on
the real property where the dwelling/building number or address is displayed.
If the premises are not occupied, the registered owner is unknown, or no other
responsible party can be reasonably identified, notice may be served by posting
it on the front door of the property for a period of at least 72 hours before
abatement action is taken by the city. The notice must state:
            1.   The property location of the junk motor vehicle and
description of the junk vehicle;
            2.   The nature of the public nuisance, with reference to the
appropriate code provision(s);
            3.   The corrective action that must be taken to abate the nuisance
and the time (ten days) within which the nuisance is to be abated;
            4.   That if the real property owner or the registered owner of the
junk motor vehicle does not comply with the notice within the ten-day time
period specified, the city shall tow the junk motor vehicle from the property
and impound the vehicle and dispose of the same in like manner as other
impounded vehicles pursuant to applicable law, ordinances and city towing/
impound contracts;
            5.   That the real property owner or the registered owner of the
junk motor vehicle has the right to appeal the designation as a junk motor
vehicle as provided in the notice/demand from the city by submitting a request
in writing to the City Clerk before the earlier of:
               a.   The date by which abatement of the identified nuisance must
be completed as stated in the notice; or
               b.   Seven calendar days after service of the notice/demand,
whichever is sooner.
            6.   That the city may assess its costs incurred in abating the
nuisance against the real property in accordance with this section and
applicable law.
         (b)   Appeal of junk motor vehicle nuisance notice. The owner of the
real property or the registered owner of the junk motor vehicle served with a
notice/demand by the city under division (C)(4)(a) above may appeal the
nuisance designation to the City Council within the time provided in the
notice/demand by submitting a request to appeal in writing to the City Clerk.
If a timely written appeal is submitted, the matter must be scheduled for a
hearing before the City Council. A notice of the appeal hearing must state the
date, time and location of the City Council hearing; must be served in the same
manner as the abatement notice; and must be given at least ten days before the
hearing. After holding the hearing, the City Council may issue an order
requiring abatement of the nuisance consistent with division (C)(4)(c) below.
Failure to timely appeal constitutes a waiver of such right to appeal and
hearing upon the nuisance designation.
         (c)   Abatement. If the City Council, after hearing an appeal under
division (C)(4)(b) orders abatement of the nuisance, or if no timely appeal is
submitted and the nuisance is not abated within the deadline given in the
notice/demand, then the city may enter onto the property on which the nuisance
exists and tow and impound the junk motor vehicle and dispose of the same in
like manner as other impounded vehicles pursuant to applicable law, ordinances
and city towing/impound contracts.
      (5)   Cost recovery. The owner of property on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on property
not owned by that person, is personally liable to the city for the cost of the
abatement, including, without limitation, administrative costs, court fees and
costs, consultant and/or contractor services fees and expenses and attorneys’
fees, if applicable. Unpaid charges constitute a lien against the premises
where the abatement occurred on and after the date they were incurred. As soon
as the abatement work has been completed and the cost determined, an
appropriate official will prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner
or other responsible party for payment thereby. The amount is immediately due
and payable to the city within 30 days of the date of the city’s invoice.
      (6)   Assessment. If the cost of abatement, or any portion of it, has not
been paid under division (C)(5) above within 30 days after the date of the
city’s invoice, the Council may, at any time, certify the unpaid cost against
the property to which the cost is attributable. Before certification against
the property, reasonable notice of the impending certification and an
opportunity to be heard by the Council must be given to the taxpayer of record.
Failure of the taxpayer to receive the notice will not invalidate the
certification. The Council may certify all unpaid costs so assessed to the
County Auditor for collection along with current property taxes in the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the Council may
determine in each case.
      (7)   Remedy not exclusive. Abatement action under this section does not
preclude any other civil or criminal enforcement procedure.
      (8)   “Weeds” defined. WEEDS shall mean and include not only such noxious
weeds, as defined in Minn. Rules 1505.0751, but also such undesirable, useless,
uncultivated and troublesome plants as are commonly known as weeds to the
general public and all pollen producing plants which are a hazard to hay fever
sufferers.
      (9)   Permitting or maintaining growth. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant, if other than the owner, of any occupied or unoccupied lot
or land or any part thereof, to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, or
on or along the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the same between the
property line and the curb or middle of the alley or for ten feet outside the
property line if there is no curb, any growth of weeds and/or grass, brush or
other rank vegetation to a greater height than six inches on the average or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush which may conceal filthy deposits of
garbage and refuse and provide harborage for rodents; provided, that in those
blocks that are 25% developed or less, weeds and the like shall be cut at least
once during the growing season at the discretion of the weed inspector.
      (10)   Duty of owner and occupant to remove. It shall be the duty of any
owner and occupant, if other than the owner, of any lot or land or any part
thereof, to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds and/or
grass, brush and rank vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply with
the provisions of this section; provided, that the cutting and removing of such
weeds and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation at least once in every three
weeks, between May 15 and September 15, shall be considered compliance with
this chapter.
      (11)   Publication of general notice for control and eradication. A
general notice for the control and eradication of weeds and/or grass, brush and
rank vegetation shall be published in the official newspaper on or before May
15 of each year. Failure of weed inspector to publish a general weed notice or
to serve individual notices herein provided does not relieve any person from
the necessity of full compliance with any and all provisions and regulations of
this chapter. In all cases, such published notice shall be deemed legal and
sufficient notice.
      (12)   Serving notices. Whenever the city weed inspector finds it
necessary to secure prompt eradication or cutting and removal of weeds and/or
grass, brush and rank vegetation in individual cases or in the event of failure
to comply with the general published notice, the city weed inspector shall
serve individual notices in writing upon the owner and occupant, if other than
the owner, giving specific instructions when and how the weeds and/or grass,
brush and rank vegetation are to be cut and removed. The notice shall be served
upon the owner of the property and on the occupant, if other than the owner,
either personally or by first class mail supported by an affidavit of mailing
sent to the last known address of the owner and occupant of the property. A
notice tag shall also be affixed to the door of any building situated on the
property. Service on an owner living temporarily or permanently outside of the
city whose property is vacant or unoccupied may be made by sending the notice
by first class mail supported by an affidavit of mailing to the last known
address of such person, to be ascertained, if necessary, from available public
records.
      (13)   Removal by city.
         (a)   If any owner or occupant, if other than the owner, upon whom the
individual notice is served, fails to comply with the notice either by refusal
or neglect to cut and remove such weeds and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation
within seven days after service of such notice, the city weed inspector shall
cause such weeds and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation to be cut and removed.
Promptly upon completion of the work of removal of the weeds and/or grass,
brush and rank vegetation, the City Administrator or his or her designated
representative shall serve upon the owner by first class mail an itemized
statement of the actual cost of such cutting and removal plus the actual cost
of supervision, including cost of serving notice upon the person responsible
for such cutting and removal; such statement to include an administrative fee
as set forth in the §
51.01. If the owner fails to pay, the City Administrator shall submit to the
City Council the itemized accounting of costs and a recommendation that the
City Council by resolution authorize that an assessment be levied upon such lot
or land in accordance with M.S. Ch. 429.
         (b)   The owner of any property so assessed may, at any time prior to
certification of the assessment to the County Auditor, pay the whole of the
assessment on such property with interest accrued to the date of payment to the
City Treasurer; except that no interest shall be charged if the entire
assessment is paid within 30 days of the date of adoption of such assessment
resolution.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025) Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS
§ 91.35 DEFINITION.
   The word WEEDS, as used in this subchapter, shall be construed to mean and
include all noxious weeds as defined by the statutes of the state and all
useless and troublesome plants as are commonly known as WEEDS to the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 420.01)
§ 91.36 NUISANCE.
   All weeds growing upon any lot in the platted portion of the city to the
greater height of one foot, or which have gone or about to go seed, are hereby
declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the health, safety and good order of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 420.03) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 NOTICE.
   When the owner and/or occupant permit a nuisance to exist in violation of §
91.36 of this chapter, the Weed Inspector, or his or her assistants, shall
serve notice on the owner, occupant or agent of the owner of the lot or parcel
of land ordering the person to have the weeds cut and removed or otherwise
eradicated or removed within ten days after the service of the notice; the
notice shall also state that in event of non-compliance, removal will be done
by the city at the owner’s expense. When no owner, occupant or agent of the
owner can be found, notice shall be sent by registered mail to the person who
is listed on the records of the County Auditor or County Treasurer as the
owner; service will be complete with mailing.
(Prior Code, § 420.05)
§ 91.38 ASSESSMENT.
   If the person fails to comply with the notice within ten days after service
or, if no owner, occupant or agent can be found, the Weed Inspector, or his or
her assistants, shall have the weeds cut and removed or otherwise eradicated. A
record showing the cost of the work attributed to each separate lot or parcel
shall be delivered to the City Clerk. On or before October 1 of each year, the
amount so charged against the lot or parcel of land, together with a
description of the premises and the name of the supposed owner shall be
certified to the County Auditor and shall be collected in the same manner as
taxes and/or special assessments against the premises. The charge shall be a
perpetual lien on the premises until paid.
(Prior Code, § 420.07)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
91.01 of this chapter is a misdemeanor. The imposition of one penalty for any
violation of §
91.01 of this chapter shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue.
Each ten days that prohibited conditions are maintained shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1210.05)
   (C)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
provisions of the individual notice delivered or sent to him or her under §
91.24 or shall resist or obstruct the city weed inspector or person or persons
hired by him or her to cut and remove weeds and/or grass, brush and rank
vegetation shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine not exceeding
$500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 1225.03)
   (D)   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to fail or neglect to cut and
remove or otherwise eradicate weeds, as directed in §
91.35 through
91.38 of this chapter, or fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the provisions
of any notice provided herein or to violate the provisions of §§
91.35 through
91.38 of this chapter or to resist or obstruct the Weed Inspector or his or her
employees in the cutting, removal or eradication of weeds.
(Prior Code, § 420.09)
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
92.01   Uniform Fire Code
   
92.02   Fire limits
   
92.03   Open burning
   
92.04   Starting fires
   
92.05   Fire lanes
   
92.06   Conduct at the scene of emergency
   
92.07   Removal of property endangered by fire
   
92.08   Demolition of buildings
   
92.09   Police powers of Fire Department personnel
   
92.10   Police aid at emergency scene
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Outdoor solid wood burners, see
Ch. 163
§ 92.01 UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   (A)   General. The state’s Uniform Fire Code, one copy of which has been
marked as the official copy and which is on file in the office of the City
Clerk, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for the city for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosion. Every provision contained in this code, except as
modified or amended by this section, is hereby adopted and made a part of this
section as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department serving the city, or his or her
representative authorized by him or her, shall enforce the provisions of this
section.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail such members of the
Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary. The
Chief of the Fire Department may recommend the employment of technical
inspectors, who, when the authorization is made, shall be selected through an
examination to determine their fitness for the position. The examination shall
be open to members and non-members of the Fire Department; and appointments
made after examination shall be for an indefinite term with removal only for
cause.
   (C)   Appeals. Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse
to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the
code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the code may have been
misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision
of the Chief to the City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision
appealed.
(Prior Code, § 720.01)
§ 92.02 FIRE LIMITS.
   There is hereby created an area of the city to be hereafter known as “fire
limits” and which shall be comprised of all of the platted area in the city.
(Prior Code, § 720.03)
§ 92.03 OPEN BURNING.
   No person, firm or corporation shall burn any sweepings, trash, lumber,
leaves, straws, papers, grass or other combustible material on any street,
alley, yard or lot within said “fire limits”.
(Prior Code, § 720.05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 STARTING FIRES.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall set on fire, or cause to be set on
fire, any woods, grass or other combustible material, on his or her own
property or that of another within the unplatted portion of the city limits by
means whereof property of another, or any residence or other structure or thing
of value may be endangered, without first having obtained permit therefor. Fee
for the permit is established in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Conditions of permit. Upon application being made and later approved
by the Mayor and Council, the Fire Marshal may issue a permit authorizing any
person to set on fire any woods, grass or other combustible material after
determining that all necessary precautions have been taken to protect life and
property. Any such permit shall set out the time and place of burning and the
area to be burned and show conformance with current State Pollution Control
Agency procedures. No permit granted hereunder shall, in any way, relieve the
person acting thereunder from civil liability for any damage resulting
therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 720.07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 FIRE LANES.
   (A)   In this section, the term FIRE LANE means a part of any off-street
parking area designated to permit ingress and egress of firefighting equipment
and to provide other relief in event of any fire.
   (B)   Any owner or operator of any multiple dwelling building or any
building generally used for public gatherings, or which attracts large numbers
of the public, desiring to install a fire lane, shall make application to the
Fire Marshal of the city for the establishment of a fire lane on the parking
area. The application shall contain the name of the applicant, the type of
building, the address and the name of the owner, if different from the
operator. The application shall be accompanied by a drawing or plat showing the
location of any buildings and the proposed location of the fire lane or lanes,
together with the further information as the Fire Marshal shall require.
   (C)   The application for the establishment of the fire lanes shall be
submitted to the City Council for approval or disapproval and is effective upon
the approval of the City Council.
   (D)   The Fire Marshal may request the establishment of a fire lane by
giving notice to the owner or operator of the premises and submitting the same
to the City Council.
   (E)   Fire lanes shall be marked with signs posted at the expense of the
owner and approved by the Fire Marshal. Failure to post the signs is a
violation of this section.
   (F)   The owner, operator or manager of any premises in the city shall
submit to the Fire Marshal a drawing or plat of the lanes previously
established. The map or plat shall be submitted by the Fire Marshal to the
Council for approval or disapproval.
   (G)   It is unlawful to park or leave any motor vehicle in an established
fire lane; and no owner or operator of any vehicle shall so leave or park the
same in a fire lane.
(Prior Code, § 720.09) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 CONDUCT AT THE SCENE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   Traffic. It is unlawful to drive a vehicle over a fire hose, except at
the direction or command of a police officer or member of the Fire Department.
Upon the approach of any Fire Department vehicle giving signal by bell, siren,
horn or flashing lights, the driver of every other non-emergency vehicle shall
immediately drive the same to a position as near as possible and parallel to
the right-hand edge or curb of the street, clear of any intersection, and shall
stop and remain in the position unless otherwise directed by a police officer
or member of the Fire Department and until the Fire Department vehicles have
passed. It shall be unlawful for the driver of any non-emergency vehicle to
follow closer than 300 feet of any fire apparatus traveling in response to a
fire alarm. It is unlawful to drive into or park the vehicle within the block
in which the fire apparatus is stopped in answer to a fire alarm, unless
permitted to do so by a police officer or member of the Fire Department.
   (B)   Spectators at fire. The officer of the Fire Department in command at
the scene of any fire or other emergency may establish a zone of danger, within
which no person, except members of the Fire Department or Police Department
shall enter, unless directed or permitted to do so by the member in command. No
person may enter upon the premises which is the scene of a fire or alarm of
fire, or other emergency, unless and until directed or permitted to do so by
the member of the Fire Department in command of the fire.
   (C)   Utilizing citizens to assist Fire Department. The officer of the Fire
Department in command at the scene of any fire or other emergency shall have
the authority to utilize any citizen in assisting in protecting life and
property, when, in his or her judgment, an emergency dictates the necessity of
the assistance.
(Prior Code, § 720.11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 REMOVAL OF PROPERTY ENDANGERED BY FIRE.
   The officer of the Fire Department in command at any fire or other emergency
shall have power to cause the removal of any property, whenever it shall become
necessary for the preservation of the property from fire, or to prevent the
spreading of fire, or to protect adjoining property, and, to that end, may
enter or order any member of the Fire Department to enter premises involved in
danger or endangering other property.
(Prior Code, § 720.13)
§ 92.08 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   The officer of the Fire Department in command at the scene of any fire or
other emergency shall have authority to order the demolition of any building or
structure during a fire or other extreme emergency to prevent a conflagration;
provided, however, that, no building or structure shall be blown up or
otherwise destroyed for the purpose of checking the progress of any fire,
except in case of absolute necessity, and then only upon order of the officer
of the Fire Department in command at the scene of the fire.
(Prior Code, § 720.15)
§ 92.09 POLICE POWERS OF FIRE DEPARTMENT PERSONNEL.
   At all times when the Fire Department is traveling to a fire or the scene of
an alarm of fire, or is present at a fire, or the scene of an alarm of fire, or
other emergency, all members of the Fire Department shall be vested with police
powers to enforce the provisions of this subchapter and to make arrests for the
violation thereof. The officer of the Fire Department in command at the scene
of a fire shall have the authority to direct the operations of all police and
peace officers present at the scene. The Fire Chief and the Fire Marshal are
hereby vested with all police powers necessary to investigate the cause,
origin, circumstances of any fire or alarm of fire or other emergency.
(Prior Code, § 720.17)
§ 92.10 POLICE AID AT EMERGENCY SCENE.
   It is hereby made the special duty of the Chief of Police, police officers
and other peace officers as are on duty at the time, to respond to all fire
alarms and assist the Fire Department in the protection of life and property of
the citizens, and the property of the Fire Department, and in controlling and
regulating traffic and maintaining order.
(Prior Code, § 720.19)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
92.01 of this chapter hereby adopted or fail to comply therewith, or who shall
violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder, or who shall build in
violation of any detailed statement or specifications or plans submitted and
approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued thereunder, and from
which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to comply with such and order
as affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a court of competent
jurisdiction, within the time fixed herein, shall, severally for each and every
violation and non-compliance respectively, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not exceeding $500 and by imprisonment for a period not
exceeding 90 days. The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not
excuse the violation or permit it to continue; and all such persons shall be
required to correct or remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable
time; and, when not otherwise specified, each day that prohibited conditions
are maintained shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the above penalty shall not be held to prevent
the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
(Prior Code, § 720.01)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   City park regulations
No Wake Regulations
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   No wake zone
   
93.17   Effective period
   
93.18   Notification
   
93.19   Exemptions
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 CITY PARK REGULATIONS.
   It shall be a misdemeanor for anyone to violate any authorized posted park
regulations in any city park. Regulations shall be posted on a sign in a
conspicuous place in all city parks and shall be titled “Park Regulations”.
(Prior Code, § 730.01) Penalty, see §
93.99
NO WAKE REGULATIONS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOAT. Any watercraft, as defined in M.S. § 86B.005, subd. 14a, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   MOTORBOAT. Any boat propelled by machinery, as defined in M.S. § 86B.005,
subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, association, corporation or any
body of persons.
   SLOW-NO WAKE. The operation of a watercraft at the slowest possible speed
necessary to maintain steerage and in no case greater than five mph or at a
speed that causes minimal wash or wake.
(Prior Code, § 1135.01)
§ 93.16 NO WAKE ZONE.
   In the interest of public health, safety and general welfare, no person
shall operate a watercraft, excluding commercial barge traffic on the main
channel of the Mississippi River, at greater than a slow-no wake speed from the
“Upper Harbor” mile 760.6 to the extension of the center of Bailey Avenue
northeasterly into the Mississippi River milepost 760.0.
(Prior Code, § 1135.03) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.17 EFFECTIVE PERIOD.
   This restriction is effective from and including Memorial Day weekend
through and including Labor Day weekend.
(Prior Code, § 1135.05)
§ 93.18 NOTIFICATION.
   The city shall inform the public by official notification, as well as
posting and buoying the “Upper Harbor” and the extension of the center of
Bailey Avenue where the same intersects the main channel of the Mississippi
River. All necessary law enforcement agencies are authorized and entitled to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1135.07)
§ 93.19 EXEMPTIONS.
   Motorboats utilized by government agencies and rescue craft while on
official business shall be exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 1135.11)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.19 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of not more than $100.
(Prior Code, § 1135.09)
CHAPTER 94: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
   
94.01   Establishment
   
94.02   Library Board; composition
   
94.03   Finances
   
94.04   Unlawful acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is hereby formally established a public library in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1C.01)
§ 94.02 LIBRARY BOARD; COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The public library shall be under the jurisdiction of a board of seven
directors known as the “Library Board of the City of Wabasha”.
   (B)   The general statutes of the state applying to public libraries and
reading rooms shall govern the appointment of the Board members, their tenure
in office and their powers and duties.
(Prior Code, § 1C.03)
§ 94.03 FINANCES.
   For the purpose of maintaining the public library, the City Council shall
levy annually a tax upon all the taxable property in the city not exceeding
five mills on the dollar. The proceeds of the tax, together with all other
moneys received, for the public library, shall be paid into the City Treasury
and credited to a special fund to be known as the “Library Fund”.
(Prior Code, § 1C.05)
§ 94.04 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to commit any injury to
any property of the public library.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to willfully damage or mutilate any book or
periodical belong to the library.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to willfully fail to return any book or
periodical belonging to the library, according to the rules and regulations
duly adopted by the Board of the public library.
(Prior Code, § 1C.07) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not
more than $100 or in default thereof to imprisonment for a period not exceeding
90 days, plus the costs of prosecution in any case.
(Prior Code, § 1C.09)
CHAPTER 95: CEMETERIES
Section
   
95.01   Cemetery use
   
95.02   Vehicle use
§ 95.01 CEMETERY USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy or in any way interfere
with the grounds of any cemetery within the city limits, unless he or she shall
first procure the written consent of the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1215.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.02 VEHICLE USE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride any animal or to drive a wagon,
sleigh, automobile, snowmobile or other motor vehicle over the grounds.
(Prior Code, § 1215.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LICENSE AND PERMIT REGULATIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
113.   TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
      
114.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
115.   TAXICABS
      
116.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
117.   SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSE
CHAPTER 110: LICENSE AND PERMIT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Policy and purpose
   
110.02   Application
Licensing Procedures
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Application
   
110.17   Payment of fee
   
110.18   License approval or denial
   
110.19   License term
   
110.20   License certificates; exhibition
   
110.21   License transfer
   
110.22   License renewal
   
110.23   License revocation, denial, suspension
   
110.24   Hearing
   
110.25   Inspections
   
110.26   License fees
   
110.27   Late payment penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   By the enactment of this business title, the City Council intends to
establish to the maximum degree possible a uniform system for the issuance,
revocation, suspension and renewal of licenses and permits for all activities
for which licenses and permits are required by this code. The Council also
intends that fees for licenses and permits required by this code shall be those
set by this business title, as well as §§
32.45 through
32.49 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 800.01)
§ 110.02 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Where a provision of this code requiring a license or a permit
contains no procedure for issuance, revocation, suspension, renewal or fee, the
provisions of this business title apply.
   (B)   Where a provision of this code requiring a license or a permit
contains procedures for its issuance, revocation, suspension, renewal or fee,
the provisions prevail over this business title.
   (C)   Where a direct conflict exists between an license or permit fee set by
any provision of this code and a fee set by this business title, the fee set by
this business title applies.
   (D)   Fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 800.03)
LICENSING PROCEDURES
§ 110.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any trade, profession, business
or privilege in the city for which a license is required by any provision of
this code without first obtaining a license from the city in the manner
provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 805.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.16 APPLICATION.
   Application for a license is made to the Clerk upon forms provided by the
city. The applicant shall state the location of the proposed activity and other
facts as are required for or applicable to the granting of the license.
(Prior Code, § 805.03)
§ 110.17 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   (A)   The fees required for a license shall be paid at the office of the
Clerk before the granting of the license.
   (B)   No license fee shall be prorated for a portion of a year and no
license fee paid shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 805.05)
§ 110.18 LICENSE APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   Where the approval of any city officer or state officer or the Council is
required prior to the issuance of a license, the approval must be presented to
the Clerk before the license is issued. No license may be approved by any city
officer or issued by the Clerk if it appears that the conduct of the activity
for which a license is sought will be contrary to the health, safety or welfare
of the public or any regulation, law or ordinance applicable to the activity.
(Prior Code, § 805.07)
§ 110.19 LICENSE TERM.
   The term of the license year shall begin on January 1 and end on December
31, unless otherwise stated. Where the issuance of licenses for periods of less
than one year is permitted, the effective date of the license is the date of
issuance.
(Prior Code, § 805.09)
§ 110.20 LICENSE CERTIFICATES; EXHIBITION.
   (A)   License certificates shall show the date of issue, the activity
licensed and the term of the license. They shall be signed by the Mayor and
Clerk and be impressed with the city seal.
(Prior Code, § 805.11)
   (B)   A licensee shall carry his or her license certificate upon his or her
person at all times when engaged in the activity for which the license was
granted. Where the licensed activity is conducted at a fixed place of business
or establishment, the certificate shall be exhibited at all times in some
conspicuous place on the premises. The licensee shall present the license
certificate when applying for a renewal and upon demand of any police officer
or authorized representative of the city.
(Prior Code, § 805.13)
§ 110.21 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   Unless otherwise provided, no license shall be transferable without the
authorization of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 805.15)
§ 110.22 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   License renewals are issued in the same manner and subject to the same
conditions as original licenses.
(Prior Code, § 805.17)
§ 110.23 LICENSE REVOCATION, DENIAL, SUSPENSION.
   A license issued or to be issued by the city may be denied, suspended or
revoked by the Council for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statement contained in the
application for license or made in carrying on the licenses activity;
   (B)   Conviction of any crime or misdemeanor pertaining to license held or
applied for;
   (C)   Conducting the licensed activity in a manner as to constitute a breach
of the peace, or a menace to the health, safety and welfare of the public, or a
disturbance of the peace or comfort of the residents of the city, upon
recommendation of the city health authority or other appropriate city official;
   (D)   Expiration or cancellation of any required bond or insurance or
failure to notify the city within a reasonable time of changes in the terms of
the insurance or the carriers;
   (E)   Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license granted;
   (F)   Violation of any regulation or provision of this code applicable to
the activity for which the license has been granted, or any regulation or law
of the state so applicable; and/or
   (G)   Failure to continuously comply with all conditions required as
precedent to the approval of the license.
(Prior Code, § 805.19)
§ 110.24 HEARING.
   No license may be suspended or revoked until after a hearing is granted to
the licensee. The hearing to be held before the City Council upon due notice to
the licensee stating the time and place of the hearing, together with a
statement of the violation alleged to be the cause for the revocation or
suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 805.21)
§ 110.25 INSPECTIONS.
   The city health authority and other appropriate city officials may enter
upon the premises where any licensed activity is being conducted for the
purpose of inspection at any reasonable hour.
(Prior Code, § 805.23)
§ 110.26 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for various licenses are set forth herein.
Type of License Section Requiring License License Expires Fee*
Type of License          Section Requiring License Expires Fee*
                         License
Bicycles - every 2 years -                 April 30        $5
Billiard or pool table   114.02            Dec. 31         $25
(operator)
Billiard or pool table   114.02            Dec. 31         $25
(owner)
Bingo                    114.17            Dec. 31         State set fee
Commercial kennel        -                 Dec. 31         $125
Dogs/cats (male/female   90.02             March 31        $10
spayed)
Female - unspayed        90.02             March 31        $15
Gambling                 114.44            Dec. 31         State set fee
Games of skill           114.01            Dec. 31         $25
(operator)
Games of skill (owner)   114.01            Dec. 31         $25
Garbage and refuse       50.02             Dec. 31         $125
hauler
Maximum license fee                                        $125
Mechanical musical       114.03            Dec. 31         $25
device (operator)
Mechanical musical       114.03            Dec. 31         $25
device (owner)
Mobile home location     151.02            March 30        $10
Off-sale liquor          111.29            June 30         $200
On- or off-sale and      111.29            June 30         $100
special on sale
On-sale club             111.29            June 30         Per state law
On-sale intoxicating     111.29            June 30         $1,200
liquor
On-sale intoxicating     111.29            June 30         $200
liquor (Sunday)
On-sale wine             111.29            June 30         $300
Personal kennel          90.05             Dec. 31         $20
Sale of cigarettes       113.01            Dec. 31         $55
Sale of fireworks        -                 Dec. 31         $30
Taxicab                  115.04            Dec. 31         $55
Temporary liquor on-sale -                                 $100
1 - 4 days
Transient merchants      Ch. 116                           $30
 
(Prior Code, § 810.01) (Ord. passed 9-2-2003; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 110.27 LATE PAYMENT PENALTY.
   (A)   No penalty. No penalty for the late payment of any license shall be
incurred by any licensee provided the owner or his or her agent makes
application for the renewal of his or her existing license to the City Clerk
and includes therein the payment of the required fee therefor prior to the
expiration date of the license.
   (B)   Penalty for late payment. Every person whose trade, business,
profession, activity or privilege is licensed by the city, other than one who
has been closed down or who has not operated the activity in the city after the
expiration of the licensing year, shall pay to the City Clerk the regular
license fee and, in addition thereto, the following penalty for late
application for a renewal:
      (1)   One to seven days late: 25% penalty;
      (2)   Eight to 14 days late: 50% penalty; and
      (3)   After 14 days late: the activity for which the license is required
shall be suspended on order of the Mayor and no new license for the activity
shall be considered by the Council for 60 days.
   (C)   Later payment of license fee with penalty no bar to prosecution for
operating without a license. The late payment of the license fee along with the
penalty set forth herein is no bar to any prosecution by the city for operating
any licensed trade, business, profession, activity or privilege within the city
without a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 810.03) (Ord. passed 9-2-2003; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   State law adopted by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on premises
   
111.05   Consumption and possession on streets, public property and city parks
   
111.06   Raffles, silent auctions and fund-raising events
   
111.07   Hours and days of sale
   
111.08   Minors on premises
   
111.09   Purchase and consumption restriction
Licensing Provisions
   
111.20   Number of licenses that may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny license
   
111.25   License application
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Renewal applications
   
111.28   License transfer
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Issuance restrictions
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   License suspension and revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 1010)
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time, to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1010.01)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LIQUOR. Without modification by the words “an intoxicating” or “a 3.2%
malt”, includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT, as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment”, “medium establishment” or
“large establishment”, as defined in M.S. § 157.16, subd. 3(d), as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served shall not be considered to be a RESTAURANT for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of a “small establishment”,
“medium establishment” or “large establishment”.
(Prior Code, § 1010.02)
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON PREMISES.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the public
in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of
alcohol, nudity and sex. The Council especially intends to prevent any
subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to lead to the
possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution, sexual assault
and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the prohibition of nudity
on the premises of any establishment licensed under this chapter, as set forth
in this section, reflects the prevailing community standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
(Prior Code, § 1010.03) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION ON STREETS, PUBLIC PROPERTY AND CITY PARKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to consume, or possess in an unsealed
container, alcoholic beverages on any street, sidewalk or alley or other public
property, except when and where permission has been specifically granted or
licensed by the Council. The possession and consumption of alcoholic beverages
shall be allowed in public parks unless otherwise posted.
(Prior Code, § 1010.04) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 RAFFLES, SILENT AUCTIONS AND FUND-RAISING EVENTS.
   No person shall conduct a silent auction, raffle of other fund raising event
pursuant to M.S. § 340A.707, as it may be amended from time to time, with
prizes or awards of wine, beer or intoxicating liquors without notifying the
City Clerk of the event at least ten days prior to the occurrence of the event.
The event holder shall provide the city with the following information: the
person or organization holding the event; the day, time and location of the
event; type of fund-raising event (silent auction, raffle or otherwise); type
and amount of wine, beer, intoxicating liquor to be awarded as prizes; and the
charitable purposes to which the event proceeds will be donated.
(Prior Code, § 1010.05) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time; except that, the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume, nor shall any on-sale licensee permit, any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 1010.19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale; except that, persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person, host or
dishwashing services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other
multi-purpose building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or
3.2% malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed
establishment, except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a
restaurant or attend social functions that are held in a portion of the
premises where liquor is not sold.
(Prior Code, § 1010.20) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.09 PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION RESTRICTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale or a permit from the city
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be amended from time to
time, which has been approved by the Council, and no person shall consume
liquor in any such place.
(Prior Code, § 1010.21) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES THAT MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council, in its sound discretion, may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Prior Code, § 1010.06)
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31-June 30 of each year
unless another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the
same date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the city and the accompanying city consent to the
permit shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 1010.07)
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
111.20 of this chapter:
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to golf
courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks;
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious or non-profit organization;
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before 5-1-1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating liquor
license established by the Council under §
111.23 of this chapter shall not exceed $240 or a greater amount which may be
permitted by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels; restaurants; bowling centers;
theaters; clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations; theaters;
and exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval
of the city. The fee for club licenses established by the Council under §
111.23 of this chapter shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. §
340A.408, subd. 2(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may,
in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense
intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at a community festival held
within the city under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(b), as it may
be amended from time to time. The Council may, in its sound discretion,
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting or social
affair conducted on the premises of a sports, convention or cultural facility
owned by the city, under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 4(a), as it
may be amended from time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from
dispensing intoxicating liquor to any person attending or participating in an
amateur athletic event being held on the premises;
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election, as provided by
M.S. § 340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-
sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant, as
defined in §
111.03 of this chapter, club, bowling center or hotel which has a seating
capacity of at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license and which serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food.
The maximum fee for this license, which shall be established by the Council
under the provisions of §
111.23 of this chapter, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided
by M.S. § 340A.504, subd. 3(c), as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000;
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the city, which may be issued only in connection with a social event sponsored
by a club, charitable, religious or other non- profit corporation that has
existed for at least three years. No license shall be for longer than four
consecutive days and the city shall issue no more than 12 days worth of
temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year;
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the city to: theaters;
restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at one time and
meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time
to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03 of this chapter; to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the
criteria in M.S. § 340A.401, as it may be amended from time to time, and to
theaters that meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404(b), as it may be amended
from time to time. The fee for an on-sale wine license established by the
Council under the provisions of §
111.23 of this chapter shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for
an on-sale intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license
who also holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license;
   (J)   One-day consumption and display permits with the approval of the city
to a non-profit organization in conjunction with a social activity in the city
sponsored by the organization;
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
city. The maximum amount of the additional fee which may be imposed by the
Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and display permit under
the provisions of §
111.23 of this chapter shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted
by M.S. § 340A.414, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year;
   (L)   Culinary class limited on-sale licenses may be issued to a business
establishment not otherwise eligible for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
that, as part of its business, conducts culinary or cooking classes for which
payment is made by each participant or advance reservation required. The
license authorizes the licensee to furnish to each participant in each class,
at no additional cost to the participant, up to a maximum of six ounces of wine
or 12 ounces of intoxicating malt liquor, during and as part of the class, for
consumption on the licensed premises only;
   (M)   Temporary off-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commission
of Public Safety, may be issued for the off-sale of wine at an auction. A
license issued under this division (M) authorizes the sale of only vintage wine
of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered for sale by any
wholesaler in the state. The license may authorize the off-sale of wine for not
more than three consecutive days; provided, not more than 600 cases of wine are
sold at any auction. The licenses are subject to the terms, including license
fee, imposed by §
111.23 of this chapter;
   (N)   Brew pub on-sale intoxicating liquor or on-sale 3.2% malt liquor
licenses, with the approval of the city, may be issued to brewers who operate a
restaurant in their place of manufacture and who meet the criteria established
at M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 8(b), as it may be amended from time to
time. Sales under this license at on-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per
year, if a brew pub licensed under this division (N) possesses a license for
off-sale under division (O) below, the brew pub’s total combined retail sales
at on-sale or off-sale may not exceed 3,500 barrels per year; provided that,
off-sales may not total more than 500 barrels. Before obtaining a license, all
brew pubs must get approval for their waste management plan from the Utility
Commission and the operator must supply the city with annual production
reports;
   (O)   Brewer off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of the
city, may be issued to a
brewer that is a licensee under division (N) above or that produces fewer than
3,500 barrels of malt liquor in a year and otherwise meets the criteria
established at M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 8(b), as it may be amended from
time to time. Off-sale of malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for
off-sale at exclusive liquor stores in the city. Malt liquor sold off-sale must
be removed from the premises before the applicable off-sale closing time at
exclusive liquor stores. All malt liquor sold under this license shall be
packaged in the manner required by M.S. § 340A.301, subd. 8, as it may be
amended from time to time. Sales under this license may not exceed 500 barrels
per year. If a brewer licensed under this section possesses a license under
division (N) above, the brewer’s total retail sales at on-sale or off-sale may
not exceed 3,500 barrels per year; provided that, off-sales may not total more
than 500 barrels. Before obtaining a license, all brewers must get approval for
their waste management plan from the Utility Commission and the operator must
supply the city with annual production reports; and
   (P)   Brewer temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued,
with the approval of the city, to brewers who manufacture fewer than 3,500
barrels of malt liquor in a year for the on-sale of intoxicating liquor in
connection with a social event within the city sponsored by the brewer. Before
obtaining a license, all brewers must get approval for their waste management
plan from the Utility Commission and the operator must supply the city with
annual production reports.
(Prior Code, § 1010.08)
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time the fee for any of the
liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the
cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related to the enforcement
of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased
without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all
affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   (1)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licensees may request a reduction
in their annual license fee by the amount specified in M.S. § 340A.408, as it
may be amended from time to time, if, at the time of initial application or
renewal, they:
         (a)   Agree to have a private vendor approved by the city train all
employees within 60 days of hire and annually thereafter in laws pertaining to
the sale alcohol, the rules for identification checks and the responsibilities
of establishments serving intoxicating liquors;
         (b)   Post a policy requiring identification checks for all persons
appearing to be 30 years old or less; and
         (c)   Establish a written cash award and incentive program to award
employees who catch underage drinkers and a written penalty program to punish
employees in the event of a failed compliance check.
      (2)   Failure to abide by the provisions of this section may result in
suspension of the license until the conditions of the fee reduction are met and
may result in suspension and/or revocation of the license pursuant to §
111.33 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1010.09)
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY LICENSE.
   (A)   The Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license.
   (B)   No applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1010.10)
§ 111.25 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the city and shall also contain the information
required in this section. The form shall be verified and filed with the city.
No person shall make a false statement in an application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility, as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time
to time, with regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended
from time to time. This proof will be filed with the city. Any liability
insurance policy filed as proof of financial responsibility under this section
shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
Operation of a business which is required to be licensed by this chapter
without having on file with the city at all times effective proof of financial
responsibility is a cause for revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 1010.11)
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 1010.12)
§ 111.27 RENEWAL APPLICATIONS.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Prior Code, § 1010.13)
§ 111.28 LICENSE TRANSFER.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 1010.14)
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   On an initial application for a license, on an application for
transfer of a license and, in the sound discretion of the Council that it is in
the public interest to do so, on an application for renewal of a license, the
city shall conduct a background and financial investigation of the applicant or
it may contract with the city for the investigation. Each individual or person
having any beneficial interest in the license shall be investigated. He or she
shall make necessary inquiry and list all violations of federal and state law
or municipal ordinance including verified complaints pending that occurred at
the establishment being investigated while under the same ownership. He or she
shall verify the facts stated in the application. He or she shall report his or
her findings and comments to the Mayor, who shall order or conduct an
additional investigation, as he or she deems necessary or as the Council may
direct.
   (B)   Every new applicant shall pay to the City Treasurer $40 per individual
when more than one individual has a beneficial interest is the license whether
a partnership, corporation or a group by whatever arrangement; the $40 per
individual to pay for the cost of investigation of each additional individual
having a beneficial interest in a retail liquor license regardless of how
limited the nature and extent of the interest. In no event shall the
investigation fee on one application exceed $80.
(Prior Code, § 1010.15)
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall, in its sound discretion, grant or deny the application. No
license shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been
approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 1010.16)
§ 111.31 ISSUANCE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a
corporation, all of the shareholders shall be residents of the state. The
provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to any license existing on the
effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Prior Code, § 1010.17)
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training shall be
provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
   (F)   Failure by on off-sale intoxicating liquor license who has received a
fee reduction pursuant to §
111.23 of this chapter to abide with the provisions thereof.
(Prior Code, § 1010.18)
§ 111.33 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from time to time. The Council
may act as the hearing body under that act or it may contract with the Office
of Hearing Examiners for a Hearing Officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules
promulgated under that chapter, as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor or violation
of §
111.05 of this chapter, the license shall be revoked;
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows.
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one-day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 of this chapter pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in
addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1010.22)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch.
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under
that chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished as provided by law.
      (2)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from time to
time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold
a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any
person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule
of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any
suspension unless the license is revoked:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $500;
         (b)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000;
and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000.
      (3)   The term VIOLATION, as used herein includes any and all violations
of the provisions in this section, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time, or any rules promulgated under that chapter, as they may be
amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined on the
basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
   (B)   A violation of §
111.04 of this chapter is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by law and is
justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine or 3.2% malt
liquor license or any other license issued under this chapter or the imposition
of a civil penalty under the provisions of division (A)(2) above.
(Prior Code, § 1010.03)
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Permit procedure
   
112.03   Restoration and relocation
   
112.04   Company default
   
112.05   Indemnification
   
112.06   Other conditions of use
   
112.07   Effective date; applicability to existing facilities
   
112.08   Acceptance of requirements
   
112.09   Public ground other than right-of-way
   
112.10   Regulations; permit schedules
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY. A natural or corporate person, business association, political
subdivision, public or private agency of any kind, its successors and assigns,
who or which seeks or is required to construct, install, operate, repair,
maintain, remove or relocate facilities in the city.
   DIRECTOR. The Mayor or designated representative.
   FACILITIES. Telecommunications equipment of any kind, including, but not
limited to, audio, video, paging, facsimile or similar service, not governed by
M.S. Ch. 238, as it may be amended from time to time, including all trunks,
lines, circuits, physical connections, switching equipment, wireless
communication equipment of all kinds and any necessary appurtenances owned,
leased or operated by a company on, over, in, under, across or along public
ground.
   PUBLIC GROUND. Highways, roads, streets, alleys, public ways, utility
easements and public grounds in the city.
(Prior Code, § 602.01)
§ 112.02 PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Permit required. A company may not construct, install, repair, remove
or relocate facilities, or any part thereof, in, on, over, under or along
public ground without first obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   Application. Application for a permit is made to the Director.
   (C)   Issuance of permit. If the Director determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this chapter, the Director may issue a permit to
the company. An applicant may contest a permit denial or the conditions of
approval by written notice to the Clerk requesting a City Council review within
14 days of the Director’s action. The Council shall hear any contest of the
Director’s actions under this chapter within 45 days of the City Clerk’s
receipt of the contest notice. Nothing in this chapter precludes the city from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by requiring a
franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to the
issuance of a permit set forth herein.
   (D)   Permit fee. Before the permit is issued, the applicant requesting the
permit shall pay the fee specified by this code.
   (E)   Security for completion of work. Prior to commencement of work, the
company must deposit with the city security in the form of certified check,
letter of credit or construction bond, in a sufficient amount as determined by
the Director for the completion of the work. The securities will be held until
the work is completed, plus a period of three months thereafter, to guarantee
that restoration work has been satisfactorily completed. Upon application of
the company, providing such information as the Director may require, if two or
more work projects are to be constructed during a calendar year, the Director
may accept, in lieu of separate security for each project, a single security
for multiple projects in such form and amount as determined, in the discretion
of the Director, to be sufficient to assure completion of all projects which
may be in progress at any one time during that calendar year and to guaranty
that restoration work will be satisfactorily completed. The security will then
be returned to the company with interest if required by law and then interest
at the applicable statutory rate.
   (F)   Inspection of work. When the work is completed, the company must
request an inspection by the Director. The Director will determine if the work
has been satisfactorily completed and provide the company with written report
of the inspection and approval.
(Prior Code, § 602.03)
§ 112.03 RESTORATION AND RELOCATION.
   (A)   Restoration. Upon completion of the work, the company must restore the
general area of the work, including paving and its foundations, to the same
condition that existed prior to commencement of the work and must exercise
reasonable care to maintain the same condition for two years thereafter. The
work must be completed as promptly as weather permits. If the company does not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
material, and restore the public ground to the same condition, the city may put
it in the same condition at the expense of the company. The company must, upon
demand, pay to the city the direct and indirect cost of the work done for or
performed by the city, including, but not limited to, the city’s administrative
costs. To recover its costs, the city will first draw on the security posted by
the company and then recover the balance of the costs incurred from the company
directly by written demand. This remedy is in addition to any other remedies
available to the city.
   (B)   Company initiated relocation. The company must give the city written
notice prior to a company initiated relocation of facilities. A company
initiated relocation must be at the company’s expense and must be approved by
the city, the approval not to be unreasonably withheld.
   (C)   City required relocation. The company must promptly, and at its own
expense, with due regard for seasonal working conditions, permanently relocate
its facilities whenever the city requires such relocation.
   (D)   Relocation where public ground vacated. The vacation of public ground
does not deprive the company of the right to operate and maintain its
facilities in the city. If the vacation proceedings are initiated by the
company, the company must pay the relocation costs. If the vacation proceedings
are initiated by the city or other persons, the company must pay the relocation
costs unless otherwise agreed to by the city, company and other persons.
(Prior Code, § 602.05)
§ 112.04 COMPANY DEFAULT.
   (A)   Notice. If the company is in default in the performance of the work
authorized by the permit, including, but not limited to, restoration
requirements, for more than 30 days after receiving written notice from the
city of the default, the city may terminate the rights of the company under the
permit. The notice of default must be in writing and specify the provisions of
the permit under which the default is claimed and state the grounds of the
claim. The notice must be served on the company by personally delivering it to
an officer thereof at its principal place of business in the state or by
certified mail to that address.
   (B)   City action on default. If the company is in default in the
performance of the work authorized by the permit, the city may, after the above
notice to the company and failure of the company to cure the default, take such
action as may be reasonably necessary to abate the condition caused by the
default. The company must reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs,
including costs of collection and attorney fees incurred as a result of the
company default. The security posted under §
112.02(E) of this chapter will be applied by the city first toward payment for
the reimbursement.
(Prior Code, § 602.07)
§ 112.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   Scope. The company will indemnify, keep and hold the city, its elected
officials, officers, employees and agents free and harmless from any and all
claims and actions on account of injury or death of persons or damage to
property occasioned by the construction, installation, maintenance, repair,
removal, relocation or operation of the facilities affecting public ground,
unless the injury or damage is the result of the negligence of the city, its
elected officials, employees, officers or agents. The city will notify the
company of claims or actions and provide a reasonable opportunity for the
company to accept and undertake the defense.
   (B)   Claim defense. If a claim or action is brought against the city under
circumstances where indemnification applies, the company, at its sole expense,
shall defend the city if written notice of the claim or action is given to the
company within a period wherein the company is not prejudiced in the defense of
the claim or action by lack of the notice. If the company undertakes the
defense, the company shall have complete control of the claim or action, but it
may not settle without the consent of the city, which shall not be unreasonably
withheld. This division (B) is not, as to third parties, a waiver of any
defense or immunity otherwise available to the city. In defending any action on
behalf of the city, the company is entitled to assert every defense or immunity
that the city could assert in its own behalf.
(Prior Code, § 602.09)
§ 112.06 OTHER CONDITIONS OF USE.
   (A)   Use of public ground. Facilities must be located, constructed,
installed, maintained or relocated so as not to endanger or unnecessarily
interfere with the usual and customary traffic, travel and use of public
ground. The facilities are subject to additional conditions of the permit as
established by the Director including, but not limited to:
      (1)   The right of inspection by the city at reasonable times and places;
      (2)   The obligation to relocate the facilities pursuant to §
112.03(C) and (D) of this chapter; and
      (3)   Compliance with all applicable regulations imposed by the state’s
Public Utilities Commission and other state and federal law, including prompt
compliance with the requirements of the Gopher State One Call Program, M.S. Ch.
216D, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Location. The facilities must be placed in a location agreed to by the
city. The company shall give the city 45 days’ advanced written notice of the
company’s proposed location of facilities within the public ground. No later
than 45 days after the city’s receipt of the company’s written notice, the city
will notify the company in writing of the city’s acceptance or rejection of the
proposed location, the city shall propose alternative locations. The city does
not waive or forfeit its right to reject the location of facilities by failure
to respond within the 45 days.
   (C)   Emergency work. A company may open and disturb the surface of public
ground without a permit where an emergency exists surface of public ground
without a permit where an emergency exists requiring the immediate repair of
its facilities. In such event, the company must request a permit not later than
the second working day thereafter and comply with the applicable conditions of
the permit. In no event may the company undertake such an activity which will
result in the closing of a street or alley without prior notification to the
city.
   (D)   Street improvements, paving or resurfacing. The city will give the
company written notice of plans for street improvements where permanent paving
or resurfacing is involved. The notice must contain:
      (1)   The nature and character of the improvements;
      (2)   The streets upon which the improvements are to be made;
      (3)   The extent of the improvements, the time when the city will start
the work; and
      (4)   If more than one street is involved, the sequence in which the work
is to proceed.
   (E)   Company protection of facilities. The company must take reasonable
measures to prevent the facilities from causing damage to persons or property.
The company must take reasonable measures to protect its facilities from damage
that could be inflicted on the facilities by persons, property or the elements.
The company must take specific protective measures when the city performs work
near the facilities.
   (F)   Prior service connections. In cases where the city is undertaking the
paving or resurfacing of streets and the facilities are located under the
street, the company may be required to install service connections prior to the
paving or resurfacing, if it is apparent that service will be required during
the five-year period following the paving or resurfacing.
(Prior Code, § 602.11)
§ 112.07 EFFECTIVE DATE; APPLICABILITY TO EXISTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Companies with facilities, in, on, over, under or along public ground
on the effective date of this chapter must take prompt action to comply with
this chapter and the permits authorized by this chapter. A company, however, is
not required to reapply for a permit obtained from the city prior to the
effective date of this chapter. A company is not required to pay the difference
between the permit fee of a previously obtained permit and the equivalent newly
obtained permit under this chapter.
   (B)   All other provisions of this chapter apply to existing facilities.
(Prior Code, § 602.13)
§ 112.08 ACCEPTANCE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   By receiving a permit pursuant to this chapter, the company accepts and
agrees to comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 602.15)
§ 112.09 PUBLIC GROUND OTHER THAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant to the company authority beyond
that given by M.S. § 222.37 for use of the public rights-of-way for
construction and operation of facilities. If the city allows the company to use
its non-right-of-way public ground, the terms of this chapter apply to the
extent they are consistent with the contract, statutory and common law rights
the city owns in the property.
(Prior Code, § 602.17)
§ 112.10 REGULATIONS; PERMIT SCHEDULES.
   The Director is authorized and directed to prepare suitable regulations and
schedules for the administration of permits issued under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 602.19)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO AND TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
113.03   Licensing provisions
   
113.04   Fees
   
113.05   Basis for denial of license
   
113.06   Prohibited sales; illegal acts
   
113.07   Vending machines
   
113.08   Self-service sales
   
113.09   Responsibility
   
113.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
113.11   Violations
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognized that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because smoking has been shown to be the cause
of several serious health problems which subsequently place a financial burden
on all levels of government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the
sale, possession and use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related
devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect
minors against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco,
tobacco products and tobacco-related devices, and to further the official
public policy of the state in regard to preventing young people from starting
to smoke, as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 900.01)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa. The term “shall” means
mandatory and the term “may” means permissive. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO
PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to single or individually packaged
cigarettes.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco- related devices are available for sale to the general public.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
convenience stores and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco- related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to
the tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices, without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device between the customer and the
licensee or employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending
machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to: cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine
cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds of forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device.
(Prior Code, § 900.02)
§ 113.03 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. All licenses issued pursuant to this chapter of the city code shall be
issued by the City Clerk upon a determination by the City Clerk that all
conditions precedent to the issuance or renewal of the license have been met
including the payment of the applicable fees and proof of insurance if
applicable. The issuance of a license by the City Clerk shall include any
conditions recommended by other city departments if the license has been
referred to the department prior to issuance. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought
and any additional information the city deems necessary. If the City Clerk
determines that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the
application to the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make
the application complete.
   (B)   Appeal. A person aggrieved by the denial of a license by the City
Clerk or the imposition of terms in connection with the granting of a license
may appeal such action of the City Clerk to the City Council. In order to
appeal the decision of the City Clerk, the applicant for the license must file
a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk within five days of being
informed of the City Clerk’s decision to deny the issuance of a license or the
terms upon which the license will be issued. The City Council will then review
the decision of the City Clerk to determine whether or not such action was
correct. The City Council may, in connection with its review of the action of
the City Clerk either affirm, reserve or modify the actions of the City Clerk.
The applicant shall be advised by mail of the date and time that the Council
will hear the applicant appeal.
   (C)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
113.99 of this chapter.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license.
(Prior Code, § 900.03) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be as
set forth in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 900.04)
§ 113.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco-related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information; and/or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding such a license.
(Prior Code, § 900.05)
§ 113.06 PROHIBITED SALES; ILLEGAL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or
offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
      (3)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need
to make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device between the licensee or the licensee’s employee, and the
customer, except cartons and multi-pack units may be offered and sold through
open displays accessible to the public;
      (4)   By means of loosies, as defined in §
113.02 of this chapter;
      (5)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and/or
      (6)   By any other means, to any other person or in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation.
(Prior Code, § 900.06)
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of
this chapter.
      (1)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device to any minor.
      (2)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device. This division (B)(2) shall not apply to minors lawfully
involved in a compliance check.
      (3)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor
to smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device.
      (4)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for
any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco-related device, and it shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of
a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco-related device. This division (B)(4) shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
      (5)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of
a false form of identification, whether the identification is that of another
person or one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with
to represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(Prior Code, § 900.11) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(Prior Code, § 900.07) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by any means
whereby the customer may have access to such items without having to request
the item from the licensee or the licensee’s employee and whereby there is not
a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or the tobacco-related
device between the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer, except
cartons and multi-pack units may be offered and sold through open displays
accessible to the public.
   (B)   All tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices shall either
be stored behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to customers, or
in a case or other storage unit not left open and accessible to the general
public, except cartons and multi-pack units may be offered and sold through
open displays accessible to the public.
   (C)   Any retailer selling tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related
devices at the time this chapter is adopted shall comply with this section
within 30 days following the effective date of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 900.08) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
(Prior Code, § 900.09)
§ 113.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 15 years, but less than 18 years, to enter the licensed premises to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices.
Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by city
designated law enforcement officers or other designated city personnel. Minors
used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco- related devices when such items are
obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor’s age,
and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Prior Code, § 900.10)
§ 113.11 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   (C)   Hearing Officer. The City Council shall serve as the Hearing Officer.
   (D)   Decision. If the Hearing Officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the Hearing Officer’s reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
113.99 of this chapter, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be
provided to the accused violator. Likewise, if the Hearing Officer finds that
no violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, the
findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused
violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the Hearing Officer shall be
filed in the District Court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 900.12)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Licensees and employees. Any licensee, and any employee of a
licensee, found to have violated this chapter shall be charged an
administrative fine of $75 for a first violation of this chapter; $200 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250
for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month
period. In addition, after the third offense, the license shall be suspended
for not less than seven days.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by division (A)(3) below, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
charged an administrative fee of $50.
      (3)   Minors. Minors found to be in violation of this chapter shall be
charged an administrative fee of $25 and also shall be subject to the criminal
penalties as set forth herein.
      (4)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 900.15)
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco- related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have a
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
(Prior Code, § 900.14)
CHAPTER 114: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Games of skill, amusement devices and pinball machines
   
114.02   Billiard or pool tables
   
114.03   Mechanical musical devices
Bingo
   
114.15   Purpose
   
114.16   Definitions
   
114.17   License required
   
114.18   License application
   
114.19   License suspension or revocation
   
114.20   Conduct of bingo
   
114.21   Bingo on leased premises
   
114.22   Prizes
   
114.23   Records
   
114.24   Reports
   
114.25   Inspection and investigation
   
114.26   Use of bingo receipts
   
114.27   Use of bingo profits
   
114.28   Exemptions
Gambling
   
114.40   Purpose
   
114.41   State law adopted
   
114.42   License required
   
114.43   Persons eligible for license
   
114.44   License fees
   
114.45   Profits
   
114.46   Conduct of gambling
   
114.47   Compensation
   
114.48   Reporting requirements
   
114.49   Eligible premises
   
114.50   Prizes
   
114.51   Bingo
   
114.52   Charitable gambling
 
   
114.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 GAMES OF SKILL, AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND PINBALL MACHINES.
   (A)   A MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE OR PINBALL MACHINE is hereby defined as
a machine, which upon the insertion of a coin or slug operates or may be
operated for use as a game of skill and amusement, and which contains no
automatic pay-off device for the return of money, coin, checks, tokens or other
merchandise, or which provides no such pay-off by any other means or manner;
except that, this provision shall not prohibit the licensing of a machine which
returns slugs which may be used only in the machine licensed and which itself
does not constitute a gambling device.
(Prior Code, § 910.01)
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall own, operate, maintain, sell or
keep for operation within the city, a mechanical amusement device or pinball
machine as hereinbefore defined, without first having applied for and received
a license thereof as hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, § 910.03)
   (C)   Each owner and each operator or keeper of each individual machine or
device shall make application to the City Clerk upon forms furnished by the
city for an owner’s license or for an operator’s license. Every application for
an owner’s license shall be accompanied by an annual license fee for each
machine, the payment of the fee shall permit the placing of each machine in any
business location in the city, except as limited hereafter. The owner shall
receive, in addition to his or her annual license, one annual license tag for
each machine that he or she is licensed to own, which tag shall, at all times,
shall be displayed upon the machine in a prominent part thereof. Each operator
in making his or her application shall specify the numbers, types and
distinguishing characteristics of the machines for which he or she seeks a
license. These machines shall be examined by a member of the Police Department
and if they accord with the provisions of this section, the police shall then
affix an annual license tag (which has been supplied to the owner) in a
prominent visible place upon the machine and the tag shall remain so affixed to
the machine during the term of the license. The fee for a license is provided
for in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 910.05)
   (D)   Every application for an operator’s license shall be accompanied by an
annual license fee, which the operator is licensed to keep in his or her place
of business. The operator’s license shall be plainly displayed upon the wall of
his or her place of business. License fees shall be paid in full in advance
with the application; except that, fees for licenses for which application is
within the last five months of the license year shall be one-half of the
license fee specified herein.
(Prior Code, § 910.07)
   (E)   No license shall be transferable as to the person or as to location.
Upon revocation or lapsing of any license, no refund shall be made of any
portion of the license fee. Any owner holding an owner’s license may transfer
any machine owned by him or her upon which the appropriate tag is prominently
affixed from one licensed location to another within the city.
(Prior Code, § 910.09)
   (F)   No person, firm or corporation shall permit the operation of any such
machine or device for making of side bets or gambling in any form. No prize,
award, merchandise gifts, money or anything of value shall be given to any
player of such mechanical machine or device, except as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 910.11)
   (G)   The City Council may grant or deny any such application and if
granted, the license may be revoked by the City Council at any time, with
notice and a hearing to the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 910.13)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.02 BILLIARD OR POOL TABLES.
   (A)   No person shall keep within the city any billiard or pool table for
public use without first obtaining a license therefor, as is hereinafter
provided.
(Prior Code, § 915.01)
   (B)   Any keeper or owner of any billiard or pool table may obtain a license
therefor by paying to the City Clerk a sum therefor as is set out in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances, and the City Clerk shall give the applicant
a receipt therefor, specifying the amount paid, the nature of the license
applied for and the term thereof and the Clerk shall give to said applicant a
license in accordance with the terms of the receipt, which the license shall be
signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 915.03)
Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.03 MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICES.
   (A)   (1)   No person, firm or corporation either as principal, agent,
lessor or lessee shall possess, keep, permit or maintain any mechanical musical
device on any premises under his or her or its control, within the city and
open to the public or any group or class thereof, without first having applied
for and received a license for each such machine as herein provided. A
MECHANICAL MUSICAL DEVICE, under this section, shall mean and include any
device for the producing, reproducing or playing of musical selections or
numbers, either vocal or instrumental, or both, which is operated by depositing
therein a coin or token.
      (2)   It shall also mean and include any such device which is operated
mechanically to render definite musical selections or numbers selected by the
operators or others, as aforesaid, after the direct or indirect payment
therefor, but, the provisions hereof shall not include radios, nor phonographs
playing records or musical recordings upon which the records or recordings are
placed and removed by hand, and for the operation of which no payment is
required either by the deposit of a coin or token in the device itself or by
giving the same to the owner or operator.
(Prior Code, § 920.01)
   (B)   (1)   Any person, firm or corporation desiring a license for any
machine shall file an application therefor with the City Clerk on a form
supplied by the city and shall give the name of the applicant, the trade name
and general description of the device to be licensed, the name and address of
the owner of the device if other than the licensee, the address of the premises
where the licensed device is to be operated together with the character of the
business carried on at that place and the denomination of the coin or coins
required for the operation of the device, or the value of the token used in
lieu thereof or a statement of any other payment, direct or indirect that will
be required and received for the operation.
      (2)   The fee for the license is set out in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 920.03)
   (C)   (1)   Application for licenses hereunder shall first referred by the
Clerk to the Police Department and if the business has operated on the premises
where the permit is requested is as described in the application and the same
being legally operated and the device to be licensed will not clearly
constitute a nuisance in the proposed location, the Department shall approve
the application.
      (2)   Every application shall then be submitted to the City Council for
approval.
      (3)   No license issued hereunder shall be transferred to another
location, nor to another device.
(Prior Code, § 920.05)
   (D)   (1)   Licenses granted hereunder shall be for one year from January 1
to December 31 each year, unless otherwise provided.
      (2)   Every license shall describe with sufficient detail for
identification purposes the machine for which it was issued and shall be
attached to or posted in a conspicuous place nearby the device for which the it
was issued.
      (3)   Licenses shall be summarily revoked for a violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 920.07)
Penalty, see §
114.99
BINGO
§ 114.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to closely regulate and control the
conduct of the game of bingo and to prohibit commercialization of bingo.
(Prior Code, § 930.01)
§ 114.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACTIVE MEMBER. A member of the organization requesting a license whose dues
are paid for the current membership period and who has been a member for at
least six months.
   BINGO. A game where each player has a card or board for which a
consideration has been paid, containing five horizontal rows of spaces, with
each row, except the central one containing five figures. The central row has
four figures with the word free marked in the center space thereof. A player
wins a game of BINGO by completing any pre-announced combinations of spaces or,
in the absence of a pre-announcement of a combination of spaces, any
combination of live spaces in a row, either vertical, horizontal or diagonal.
   BINGO OCCASION. A single gathering or session at which a series of one or
more successive bingo games are played.
   ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans or other non-
profit organization, which has been in existence for at least three years and
has at least 30 active members.
   PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from one or more bingo occasions less
reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for bingo supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent and utilities used during the bingo occasions, bingo
license fees and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in
conducting a bingo occasion.
(Prior Code, § 930.03)
§ 114.17 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No bingo occasion shall be conducted, except by an eligible
organization which has secured a license for that purpose, as provided in this
subchapter, except as to those bingo events specifically exempted by M.S. §
349.19, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   A license shall be valid for 12 calendar months from the date of
issuance.
   (C)   The annual license fee shall be as established in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   A license application shall be acted upon by the Council no sooner
than 30 days and no later the 180 days after the date of application.
   (E)   No bingo license issued may be transferred to any other person or
organization. No bingo license shall be transferred to any location other than
the location specified in the license, without prior approval by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 930.05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.18 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Every application for a bingo license shall be made to the City Clerk on a
form supplied by the city and containing such information as the Clerk or the
Council may require. No person shall make a false statement in an application.
Copies of each application shall be referred to the city’s Police Chief, Fire
Chief and Building Inspector for their recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 930.07)
§ 114.19 LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days, or revoke, any
bingo license for violation of any provision of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be
amended from time to time, or this subchapter. The holder of the license shall
be granted a hearing upon at least ten days’ notice before revocation or
suspension is ordered. The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing
and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 930.09)
§ 114.20 CONDUCT OF BINGO.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall appoint a bingo manger to supervise
bingo occasions conducted by it. The bingo manager must be a member of the
licensed organization, with dues paid for the current membership period, and
must have been a member of the organization for at least two years. The bingo
manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of $10,000 in favor of the
organization conditioned upon the faithful performance of his or her duties;
except that, the City Council may waive the bond requirement upon a showing by
the proposed bingo manager and the license organization that a bond is not
required to protect the organization and upon the unanimous vote of the City
Council. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing
to the City Council not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation. Each bingo
occasion shall be conducted under the direct supervision of the bingo manager,
who shall be responsible for the conduct of the bingo occasion in compliance
with all applicable laws and ordinances. No person shall act as bingo manger
for more than one organization.
   (B)   One or more checkers shall be engaged for each bingo occasion. The
checkers shall be active members of the licensed organization, spouse of active
members of the licensed organization, surviving spouses of active members or
members of auxiliary organizations. The checker or checkers shall record the
number of cards purchased and played in each game prior to the completion of
each game and record the prizes awarded to the recorded cards. Each checker
shall certify all figures which he or she has recorded as accurate and correct
to the best of his or her knowledge, on forms prescribed by the City Clerk.
   (C)   Additional persons may be engaged for other duties in connection with
bingo occasions as needed, but no person shall assist in the conduct of a bingo
occasion who is not an active member of the licensed organization, the spouse
of an active member of the licensed organization, surviving spouses of active
members or members of auxiliary organizations.
   (D)   No person shall receive more than $12 as compensation for any duties
in connection with any one bingo occasion.
   (E)   No more than 104 bingo occasions each year or two bingo occasions each
week shall be conducted by any licensed organization; except that, the Council
may authorize up to 200 additional bingo occasions per year to be conducted by
a licensed organization upon finding by the Council that such additional bingo
occasions will not defeat the purpose of this subchapter as set out in §
114.15 of this chapter.
   (F)   A bingo occasion shall not continue for more than four consecutive
hours.
(Prior Code, § 930.11) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.21 BINGO ON LEASED PREMISES.
   (A)   Any person, corporation or eligible organization, which leases any
premises that it owns to two or more eligible organizations for the purposes
including the conduct of bingo occasions, shall not allow more than four bingo
occasions to be conducted on the premises in any week.
   (B)   Any eligible organization which leases any premises to one or more
eligible organizations for the purposes, including the conduct of bingo
occasions shall use the proceeds of the rental, less reasonable sums for
maintenance, furnishings and other necessary expenses, only for the uses for
which bingo profits may be used, as set out in §
114.27 of this chapter. Not less than once each year, the lessor organization
shall report to the City Council the deposition of all receipts which it has
received during the reporting period from the rental of its facilities to other
organizations for the purposes including the conduct of bingo occasions.
   (C)   No eligible organization shall conduct bingo on any leased premises
without a written lease for the term at least equal to the remainder of the
term of the license of the lessee organization. Lease payments shall be at a
fixed monthly rate, or rate per bingo occasion, not subject to change during
the term of the lease. No such lease shall provide that rental payments be
based on a percentage of receipts or profits from bingo occasions.
(Prior Code, § 930.13) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.22 PRIZES.
   (A)   Prizes for a single bingo game shall not exceed $100, except prizes
for a game of the type commonly known as a “cover-all” game. “Cover-all” prizes
may exceed $100; provided that, the aggregate value of the prizes for a bingo
occasion shall not exceed $500. The aggregate value of prizes for a bingo
occasion shall not exceed $2,500; except that, in the case of a bingo occasion
during which a “cover-all” game is played for a maximum prize of more than
$100, but less than $500, the aggregate value of prizes for the bingo occasion
shall not exceed $3,000. Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market
retail value.
   (B)   Each bingo winner shall be determined and every prize shall be awarded
and delivered the same day on which the bingo occasion is conducted.
(Prior Code, § 930.15) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.23 RECORDS.
   (A)   (1)   Each licensed organization shall keep records of its gross
receipts and profits for each bingo occasion.
      (2)   All deductions from gross receipts from a bingo occasion shall be
documented with receipts or other records.
      (3)   The distribution of profits shall be itemized as to payee, amount
and date of payment.
      (4)   Records required by this subchapter shall be preserved for three
years.
   (B)   (1)   Gross receipts shall be compared to the checkers’ records for
the bingo occasion by a person who did not sell cards for the bingo occasion.
      (2)   If a discrepancy exceeding $20 is found between the amount of gross
receipts for a bingo occasion as determined by the checkers’ records, and the
amount of gross receipts as determined by totaling the cash receipts, the
discrepancy shall be reported to and investigated by the Council.
   (C)   (1)   Bingo gross receipts shall be segregated from other revenues of
an organization and placed in a separate account.
      (2)   Each organization shall maintain separate records of its bingo
operations.
      (3)   The person who accounts for bingo gross receipts and profits shall
not be the same person who accounts for the other revenue of the licensed
organization.
(Prior Code, § 930.17) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.24 REPORTS.
   (A)   Each licensed organization shall report monthly to its membership its
gross receipts from bingo, its profits from bingo and the distribution of those
profits itemized as required by §
114.23(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   At the time of making its first license application under this
subchapter, and on an annual basis thereafter, each licensed organization shall
file with the Council copies of the following:
      (1)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service, “Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax”, Form 990, or
comparable form if the organization is required to file with the Department of
Treasury;
      (2)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service, “Exempt Organization Business Income Tax”, Form 990-T, or
comparable form if the organization is required to file with the Department of
Treasury;
      (3)   The most recently filed annual report required of charitable
organizations by M.S. § 309.53, as it may be amended from time to time;
provided that, an organization that is licensed to conduct bingo but is exempt
from submitting this report to the Department of Commerce under M.S. § 309.53,
Subd. 1a, as it may be amended from time to time, shall never the less submit
such a report hereunder;
      (4)   The most recently filed State Department of Commerce “Statement of
Bingo Operations”. All information contained in the statement shall be true,
correct and complete to the best knowledge of the person or persons signing the
statement; and
      (5)   Any lease agreements required by this subchapter, executed by the
organization in regard to premises leased for the conduct of bingo.
   (C)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement in any report
required by this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 930.19) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.25 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   Any city official or employee, having a duty to perform with reference to a
bingo license, and any police officer may inspect and examine the bingo records
of any licensed organization upon 24 hours’ notice.
(Prior Code, § 930.21)
§ 114.26 USE OF BINGO RECEIPTS.
   No expense shall be incurred or amounts paid in connection with the conduct
of bingo, except those reasonably expended for bingo supplies and equipment,
prizes, rent or utilities used during the bingo occasion, bingo license fees
and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in conducting a
bingo occasion.
(Prior Code, § 930.23)
§ 114.27 USE OF BINGO PROFITS.
   (A)   Profits from any bingo occasion shall be expended only as authorized
by a resolution recorded in the official minutes at a regular meeting of the
licensed organization and only for one or more of the following purposes:
      (1)   Benefitting persons by enhancing their opportunity for religious or
educational advancement, by relieving them or protecting them from disease,
suffering or distress, by contributing to their physical well-being, by
assisting them in establishing themselves in life as worthy and useful
citizens, or by increasing their comprehension of and devotion to the
principles upon which this nation was founded;
      (2)   Initiating, performing or fostering worthy public works or enabling
or furthering the erection or maintenance of public structures;
      (3)   Lessening the burdens borne by government or voluntarily
supporting, augmenting or supplementing services which government would
normally render to the people; and
      (4)   The improving, expanding, maintaining or repairing of real property
owned or leased by the licensed organization.
   (B)   Profits from bingo occasions shall not be expended for the erection or
acquisition of real property, unless the City Council specifically authorizes
the expenditures after finding that the property will be used exclusively for
one or more of the purposes specified in this section.
(Prior Code, § 930.25)
§ 114.28 EXEMPTIONS.
   Bingo may be conducted without complying with the requirements of §§
114.20(E) and (F) and
114.21 of this chapter if conducted in connection with the county fair
conducted by the agricultural society or in connection with a civic celebration
recognized by resolution of the City Council; provided that, bingo shall not be
conducted for more than 12 days during any one county fair or recognized civic
celebration or by an organization that conducts fewer than five bingo occasions
in any calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 930.27)
GAMBLING
§ 114.40 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to closely regulate and control the
conduct of gambling.
(Prior Code, § 935.01)
§ 114.41 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time, and
Laws of Minnesota, 1978, Ch. 507, relating to the definition of terms,
licensing and restrictions of gambling are adopted and made a part of this
subchapter as if set out in full.
(Prior Code, § 935.03)
§ 114.42 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly operate a gambling device or conduct
a raffle without a license to do so as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 935.05) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.43 PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   A license shall be issued only to a fraternal, religious and veterans
organizations, or any operation, trust or association organized for exclusively
scientific, literary, charitable or artistic purposes, or any club which is
organized and operated exclusively for pleasure or recreation. Such
organizations must have been in existence for at least three years and shall
have at least 30 active members.
(Prior Code, § 935.07)
§ 114.44 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fee for a gambling license shall be as established in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Application procedure. Application for a license shall be made upon a
form prescribed by the Council. No person shall make a false representation in
an application. The Council shall act upon the application within 180 days from
the date of application, but shall not issue a license until at least 30 days
after the date of application.
(Prior Code, § 935.09)
§ 114.45 PROFITS.
   Profits from the operation of gambling devices or the conduct of raffles
shall be used for proper purposes only.
(Prior Code, § 935.11)
§ 114.46 CONDUCT OF GAMBLING.
   (A)   Gambling manager. All operation of gambling devices and the conduct of
raffles shall be under the supervision of a single gambling manager to be
designated by the organization. The gambling manager shall be responsible for
gross receipts and profits from gambling devices and raffles and for their
operation. The gambling manager shall be responsible for using profits for a
proper purpose.
   (B)   Bond. The gambling manager shall provide a fidelity bond in the sum of
$10,000 in favor of the organization conditioned on the faithful performance of
his or her duties; provided, however, upon application of the licensee the City
Council may by unanimous vote waive or reduce the fidelity bond herein provided
for.
   (C)   Qualifications of a gambling manager. The gambling manager shall be an
active member of the organization and shall qualify under the law.
(Prior Code, § 935.13)
§ 114.47 COMPENSATION.
   No compensation in excess of $25 per week shall be paid to any person in
connection with the operation of a gambling device or the conduct of a raffle
by a licensed organization. No person who is not an active member of an
organization, or the spouse or surviving spouse of an active member, may
participate in the organizations’ operation of a gambling device or conduct a
raffle.
(Prior Code, § 935.15) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.48 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Gross receipts. Each organization licensed to operate gambling devices
shall keep records of its gross receipts, expenses and profits for each single
gathering or occasion at which gambling devices are operated or a raffle is
conducted. All deductions from gross receipts for each single gathering or
occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records indicating the
amount, a description of the purchased item or service or other reason for the
deduction and the receipt. The distribution of profits shall be itemized as to
payee, purpose, amount and date of payment.
   (B)   Separation of funds. Gross receipts from the operation of gambling
devices and the conduct of raffles shall be segregated from other revenues of
the organization and placed in a separate account. The person who account for
gross receipts, expenses and profits from the operation of gambling devices or
the conduct of raffles shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the organization.
   (C)   Monthly reports. Each organization licensed to operate gambling
devices or the conduct of raffles shall report monthly to its membership, and
to the City Clerk, its gross receipts, expenses and profits from gambling
devices or raffles and the distribution of profits. The licensee shall preserve
the records for three years.
(Prior Code, § 935.17) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.49 ELIGIBLE PREMISES.
   (A)   Gambling devices shall be operated and raffles conducted by a licensed
organization only upon premises which it owns or leases; except that, tickets
for raffles may be sold off the premises. Leases shall be in writing and shall
be for a term of at least one month. No lease shall provide that rental
payments be based on a percentage of receipts.
   (B)   A copy of the lease shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (C)   The Council may, in its discretion, waive any lease requirement, as
set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 935.19) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.50 PRIZES.
   Total prizes from the operation of paddle wheel and tipboards awarded in any
single day in which they are operated shall not exceed $500. Total prizes
resulting from any single spin of a paddle wheel, or from any single tipboard,
shall not exceed $100. Total prizes awarded in any calendar year from the
operation of paddle wheels and tipboards and the conduct of raffles shall not
exceed $15,000. Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market retail value.
(Prior Code, § 935.21) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.51 BINGO.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize the conduct of
bingo without acquiring a separate bingo license.
(Prior Code, § 935.23)
§ 114.52 CHARITABLE GAMBLING.
   (A)   Charitable gaming in the city, pursuant to M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be conducted in accordance with said law and
this section.
(Prior Code, § 940.01)
   (B)   No licensed gambling organization shall be operated at more than two
locations within the city.
(Prior Code, § 940.02)
   (C)   The City Council may, at its discretion, approve a license to operate
charitable gambling for any eligible local organization. An organization shall
be considered an “eligible local organization” if it shows that it meets the
following criteria:
      (1)   No less than 75% of its active membership is comprised of city
residents;
      (2)   The organization maintains a city address; and
      (3)   The granting of the license will not have a significant negative
impact on any existing organization licensed to operate charitable gambling
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 940.03)
   (D)   The City Council may, at its discretion, approve a license to operate
charitable gambling to organizations not classified as an eligible local
organization under division (C) above. Each organization that is not a local
organization which conducts lawful gambling activities within the city shall
expend no less than 95% of its net profits derived from gambling activities for
the direct benefit of citizens within the “local trade area”. The LOCAL TRADE
AREA, for the purposes of this division (D), is defined to include the area
surrounding the city, Kellogg, Minnesota, and Nelson, Wisconsin. Any
organization licensed under this division (D) shall, on a monthly basis, file
with the City Clerk a report specifying the amount of funds expended in the
local trade area and the benefits derived by the citizens of the local trade
area.
(Prior Code, § 940.04) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of provision of §§
114.15 through
114.28 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. A person convicted of violating
any provision of §§
114.15 through
114.28 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $300 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days or both, plus in either case the
costs of prosecution.
(Prior Code, § 930.29)
   (C)   (1)   Criminal penalty. Violation of any provision of §§
114.40 through
114.51 of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. A person convicted of violating
any provision of §§
114.40 through
114.51 of this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days or both, plus in either case the
cost of prosecution.
      (2)   Suspension and revocation. Any license may be suspended or revoked
for any violation of §§
114.40 through
114.51 of this chapter. A license shall not be suspended or revoked until the
procedural requirements of division (C)(3) below have been complied with;
provided that, in cases where probable cause exists as to a violation of §§
114.40 through
114.51 of this chapter, the city may temporarily suspend upon service of notice
of the hearing provided for if division (C)(3) below. The temporary suspension
shall not extend for more that two weeks.
      (3)   Procedure. A license shall not be revoked under division (C)(2)
above, until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to
the licensee. The notice shall be personally served and shall state the section
reasonably believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the
licensee may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the license will not
be suspended until after the hearing is held. If the licensee requests a
hearing, one shall be held on the matter by the Council at least one week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
Council find that a violation exists, then the Council may suspend or terminate
the license.
(Prior Code, § 935.25)
CHAPTER 115: TAXICABS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required
   
115.03   Certified signature
   
115.04   Taxicab fee
   
115.05   Examination
   
115.06   Granting license
   
115.07   Taxicab cards
   
115.08   Insurance policies
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Any person owning or having control of the use of one or more
taxicabs used for hire upon the streets or engaged in the business of operating
a taxicab within the city.
   PERSON. One or more persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations,
partnerships and associations.
   STREET. Any street, alley, avenue, court, bridge, lane or public place in
the city.
   TAXICAB. Any motor vehicle engaged in the carrying of persons for hire,
whether over a fixed route or not, and whether the same be operated from a
street stand or subject to calls from a garage, or otherwise operated for hire;
but the term shall not include vehicles subject to control and regulation by
the Public Service Commission or vehicles regularly used by undertakers in
carrying on their business.
   TAXICAB DRIVER. Any person who drives a taxicab, whether the person be the
owner of the taxicab or be employed by a taxicab owner or operator.
(Prior Code, § 925.01)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No operator shall operate a taxicab within the city limits without
first having obtained a taxicab license therefor under the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Each applicant for a taxicab license shall apply to the City Clerk for
a license upon a form to be provided by the city, and must comply with the
following provisions to the satisfaction of the City Council:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Be of age of 18 years or over if a natural person and in the case
of any copartnership, firm or corporation, must be authorized to operate
taxicabs and carry on business in accordance with the laws of the state; and
      (3)   Must fill out upon the blank form provided by the city a statement
covering each vehicle to be so licensed, giving the full name and address of
the owner; the class and passenger-carrying capacity of each vehicle for which
a license is desired; the length of time the vehicle has been in use; the make
of car; the engine number; the serial number; and the state license number;
whether the same is mortgaged the name of the mortgagee and the amount of the
mortgage.
(Prior Code, § 925.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 CERTIFIED SIGNATURE.
   If the application is made by an individual owner, it shall be signed and
sworn to by the owner; if it is by a partnership, then it shall be signed and
sworn to by one of the partners; and, if by a corporation, then by one of the
duly elected officials of the corporation.
(Prior Code, § 925.05)
§ 115.04 TAXICAB FEE.
   The fee for the license is set out in
Ch. 110 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 925.07)
§ 115.05 EXAMINATION.
   The Council may cause the Chief of Police or some other employee on behalf
of the city thoroughly and carefully to examine each taxicab before a license
is granted to operate the same.
   (A)   No taxicab shall be licensed which does not comply with the following.
      (1)   It must be in a thoroughly safe condition for the transportation of
passengers.
      (2)   It must be clean and of good appearance and well painted and
varnished.
   (B)   The examinations and tests of licensed taxicabs may be ordered by the
Council from time to time as it may deem advisable and the Council shall
maintain a constant vigilance to see that all taxicabs are kept in fitness for
public service.
(Prior Code, § 925.09)
§ 115.06 GRANTING LICENSE.
   If the City Council is satisfied that the public convenience and good order
will be served thereby, it may grant a license to any applicant. Each license
granted shall be given a number and shall give the number and an adequate
description of the taxicab licensed thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 925.11)
§ 115.07 TAXICAB CARDS.
   The operator of any taxicab shall cause to be printed in plain, legible
letters displayed inside the taxicab a card giving the number of the license,
the maximum rates of fare to be charged and a statement that any package or
article left in the taxicab must be returned by the taxicab driver to the City
Clerk’s office where it may be identified and claimed.
(Prior Code, § 925.13)
§ 115.08 INSURANCE POLICIES.
   Before a license shall be delivered to any operator, he or she shall deposit
with the City Clerk a policy or policies of an insurance company or companies
duly licensed to transact the business in the state, insuring the operator of
any taxicab to be licensed against loss from the liability imposed by law for
damages on account of bodily injuries or death, or for damage to property
resulting from the ownership, maintenance or use of any taxicab to be owned or
operated under the license, and agreeing to pay to any judgment creditor to the
extent of the amounts specified in the policy any final judgement rendered
against the assured by reason of the liability. The policy or policies shall be
approved by the City Attorney as to form any compliance with this chapter. The
limit in any insurance policy of the liability of the insurer on account of the
ownership, maintenance and use of taxicab shall not be less than $100,000 for
bodily injuries to or death of one person and $300,000 on account of any one
accident resulting in injuries to and/or death of more than one person and a
total of $30,000 liability for damage to property of others, arising out of any
one accident.
(Prior Code, § 925.15)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
116.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
116.04   License ineligibility
   
116.05   License suspension and revocation
   
116.06   License transferability
   
116.07   Registration
   
116.08   Prohibited activities
   
116.09   Exclusion by placard
   
116.10   Effectiveness
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter or empty store front for
the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell,
and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property
and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
14 consecutive days.
§ 116.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person selling
or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or
other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by the
wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS, as
shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or any
officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
116.07 of this chapter. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious,
political and other ideas.
§ 116.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
116.07 of this chapter.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name and date of birth;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days;
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any required county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by the city.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application, the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
116.04 of this chapter, in which case the Clerk must deny the license
application. If the City Clerk denies the license application, the applicant
must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial and of the
applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days of
receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request
for a public hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public
hearing can be appealed by petitioning the state’s Court of Appeals for a writ
of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like; except that, this exemption may be lost if the
person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices and any
form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant; and/or
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, or other state attorney
general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or
agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against the
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 116.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
116.04 of this chapter;
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
116.08 of this chapter; or
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application or, if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) above, the
licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no request for a
hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular business days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request.
      (2)   Within three regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
116.03 of this chapter, shall be required to register with the city. Persons
engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term
DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as
vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas.
Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license application,
but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration
form, the City Clerk shall issue to the registrant a certificate of
registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration shall
be non- transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; and/or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48-point size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants” or “Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient
Merchants Prohibited” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
116.01,
116.02,
116.08 and
116.09 of this chapter shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter.
Sections
116.03,
116.04,
116.05,
116.06 and
116.07 of this chapter shall not be effective until the adoption of a City
Council resolution or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by
those sections.
CHAPTER 117: SHORT TERM RENTAL LICENSE
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Purpose and intent
   
117.03   License requirements
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter and sections referenced herein, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   DWELLING UNIT. For definition, see §
162.013.
   OPERATOR. Any person, other than the owner, who has charge, care, or control
of a building, or part thereof, in which dwelling units, rooming units,
sleeping rooms, or units are let.
   OWNER. The person who is the fee owner, the contract purchaser, or the agent
of the aforementioned person or a member resident of a warrant-owned building
as defined by M.S.§ 273.124, subd. 3.
   SHORT TERM RENTAL DWELLING UNIT. For definition, see §
162.061.
(Ord. 05-2022, passed 12-6-2022)
§ 117.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare through reasonable and consistent regulation of
short term rental dwelling units within the city.
   (B)   No person shall conduct business as a short-term rental dwelling unit
owner or operator without first having obtained a license from the city by
submitting an application to the City Clerk as described below. Each individual
short term rental dwelling unit shall require a license.
   (C)   Any operation of a short term rental dwelling unit without first
obtaining a license for the short term rental dwelling unit with the city is a
violation of this chapter and a misdemeanor punishable pursuant to §
10.99.
(Ord. 05-2022, passed 12-6-2022)
§ 117.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A license application for a short term rental dwelling unit must be
submitted by the owner on the form prescribed by the city.
   (B)   The license application shall include all requested information
including the exact location and street address of the dwelling unit or units
which will be used as a short term rental dwelling unit.
(Ord. 05-2022, passed 12-6-2022)v
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
131.   WEAPONS
      
132.   CURFEW
      
133.   OBSCENITY
      
134.   SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND PREDATORS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Conduct prohibited
   
130.02   Criminal Code provisions adopted by reference
   
130.03   Violation
Offenses Affecting Health and Safety
   
130.15   Disorderly conduct
   
130.16   Resisting public officer
   
130.17   False statements
   
130.18   Swimming at public beach
   
130.19   Loitering
   
130.20   False alarm system and false alarms
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in any act of in the behavior
prohibited by this offenses title. Violation of any provisions of this title is
a misdemeanor and maybe punished as provided in §§
10.98 or
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1200.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 CRIMINAL CODE PROVISIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 609, as it may be amended from time to time, as
set forth in this section, are hereby adopted by reference and are as much a
part of this code as if fully set forth:
   (A)   Section 609.22, “Assault”;
   (B)   Section 609.51, “Simulating Legal Process”;
   (C)   Section 609.52, “Theft”;
   (D)   Section 609.505, “Falsely Reporting a Crime”;
   (E)   Section 609.535, “Issuance of a Worthless Check”;
   (F)   Section 609.545, “Misuse of Credit Card”;
   (G)   Section 609.575, “Negligent Fires”;
   (H)   Section 609.605, “Trespass and Other Acts”;
   (I)   Section 609.66, “Dangerous Weapons”;
   (J)   Section 609.68, “Unlawful Deposit of Garbage, Litter and Like”;
   (K)   Section 609.705, “Unlawful Assembly”;
   (L)   Section 609.715, “Presence at Unlawful Assembly”;
   (M)   Section 609.72, “Disorderly Conduct”;
   (N)   Section 609.75, “Gambling”; and
   (O)   Section 609.755, “Acts Relating to Gambling”.
(Prior Code, § 1200.03)
§ 130.03 VIOLATION.
   A violation of the statutes adopted by reference in §
130.02 of this chapter is a violation of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1200.05)
OFFENSES AFFECTING HEALTH AND SAFETY
§ 130.15 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   The following acts are disorderly conduct:
   (A)   Lurking, lying in wait or concealment in any building, yard or street
within the city with the intent to do mischief, or pilfer, or to commit any
crime of misdemeanor therein;
   (B)   Willfully disturbing any meeting not lawfully in its character or the
peace and quite of any family or neighborhood;
   (C)   Willfully and lewdly exposing his or her person or his or her private
parts, or procuring another to so expose himself or herself, and any open and
gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency;
   (D)   Using profane, vulgar or indecent language in or about any public
building, store, place of public entertainment or place of business, or upon
any of the streets, alleys or sidewalks of the city so as to be audible and
offensive;
   (E)   Appearing on any public street or other public place in an intoxicated
condition or drinking intoxicating liquor on any street or a vehicle upon a
public street;
   (F)   Unlawfully striking or in any unlawful manner offering to or doing any
bodily harm to another person or unlawful making as attempt to apply any degree
of force or violence to the person of another, or in a violent, rude, angry or
insolent manner touch or lay hands upon the person of another; and
   (G)   Willfully making a false report to a police officer in the performance
of his or her duties.
(Prior Code, § 1205.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.16 RESISTING PUBLIC OFFICER.
   It is unlawful for any person to willfully resist, delay or obstruct a
public officer in the discharging or attempting to discharge a duty of his or
her office.
(Prior Code, § 1205.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.17 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to make a false statement in an application
for any permit or license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 1205.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.18 SWIMMING AT PUBLIC BEACH.
   It is unlawful to swim or bathe at the Wabasha Public Beach between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 1205.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.19 LOITERING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to loiter, loaf, wander, stand or remain
idle either alone and/or in consort with others in a public place in a manner
as to:
      (1)   Obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk or any
other public place or any building generally open to public patronage, by
hindering or impeding or tending to hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted
passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians; and/or
      (2)   Commit in or upon any public street, public highway, public
sidewalk or any other public place or any building open to public patronage,
any act or thing which is an obstruction or interference to the free and
uninterrupted use of property or with any business lawfully conducted by anyone
in or upon or facing or fronting on any public street, public sidewalk or any
other public place or building, all of which prevents the free and
uninterrupted ingress, egress and regress therein, thereon and thereto.
   (B)   When any person causes or commits any of the conditions enumerated in
division (A) above, a police officer or any law enforcement officer shall order
that person to stop causing or committing the conditions and to move on or
disperse. Any person who fails or refuses to obey the orders shall be guilty of
a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 1205.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.20 FIRE ALARM SYSTEM AND FALSE ALARMS.
   It is unlawful for any person to tamper with or in any way interfere with
any element of any fire alarm system within the city. It is unlawful for any
person to give, or cause to be given, any alarm of fire or other emergency
condition when no fire or emergency condition exists.
(Prior Code, § 1205.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS
Section
Use of Firearms
   
131.01   Carrying loaded firearms
   
131.02   Killing birds and animals
   
131.03   Discharge of firearms
Bird Scare Guns
   
131.15   Limitation of use
   
131.16   Direction
   
131.17   Minimum distance
   
131.18   Non-use area
 
   
131.99   Penalty
USE OF FIREARMS
§ 131.01 CARRYING LOADED FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry any loaded airgun, pistol, gun,
revolver of other firearm within that portion of the city included in the
platted portion of the city.
(Prior Code, § 700.01) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 KILLING BIRDS AND ANIMALS.
   No person shall, with or without a permit, use any shotgun, rifle or other
firearm for hunting, shooting or otherwise capturing or killing any animal or
bird, except as authorized in §
131.03(C)(3) and (C)(4) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 700.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fire or discharge any gun,
pistol, revolver or other firearm or an airgun within that part of the city
included in the platted portion of the city, unless done in the lawful defense
of person or property or in the necessary enforcement of the laws of the United
States, the state or ordinances of the city.
   (B)   The words PLATTED PORTION OF THE CITY, as used herein, shall mean that
part of the city, which has been subdivided into lots and blocks, including all
streets and alleys therein, according to the plats of the city and addition
thereto filled with the office of the Register of Deeds of the county.
   (C)   Division (A) above does not apply to:
      (1)   Persons duly authorized to act as law enforcement officers, or
members of military forces of the United States or the state in the discharge
of their duties;
      (2)   Persons engaged in target shooting, with inanimate objects as
targets, within a building or structure safely enclosed where the sound of
shooting or discharge will not be a nuisance to persons occupying adjacent
property;
      (3)   Persons acting in self-defense when the use of firearms for that
purpose would be lawful under the laws of the state; or
      (4)   For the destruction of diseased, injured or dangerous birds,
animals or reptiles by persons specifically authorized to do so by the Chief of
Police or the Council.
(Prior Code, § 700.05) Penalty, see §
131.99
BIRD SCARE GUNS
§ 131.15 LIMITATION OF USE.
   No person shall use, operate or permit the use or operation of machines used
by farmers to keep animals and birds out of their fields, commonly known as
“squawkers”, “bird scare guns” or “pop guns”:
   (A)   Before the hours of 7:30 a.m. or after the hour of 6:30 p.m. on any
day; or
   (B)   Within a distance of 500 feet from any residential or commercial
building.
(Prior Code, § 1206.01) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 DIRECTION.
   All bird scare guns shall be situated so as not to point or be directed
toward any commercial or residential structure and shall be so positioned to
cause the least amount of sound to affect adjacent properties.
(Prior Code, § 1206.03) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.17 MINIMUM DISTANCE.
   All bird scare guns shall be separated from other bird scare guns by a
minimum distance of 500 feet.
(Prior Code, § 1206.05) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.18 NON-USE AREA.
   No bird scare guns shall be operated on any lands lying north and east of
River Drive South in the city.
(Prior Code, § 1206.07) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
131.15 through
131.18 of this chapter is guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction, be subject to a fine of not more than $200.
(Prior Code, § 1206.09)
CHAPTER 132: CURFEW
Section
   
132.01   Curfew minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor.
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor.
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next- door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or
unless one of the exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of this chapter may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260B.198, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 133: OBSCENITY
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Severability
   
133.03   Obscenity prohibited
   
133.04   Affirmative defenses
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMUNITY STANDARDS. In determining contemporary community standards, the
trier of fact may utilize the standards of the community or vicinage from which
he or she comes, but the court, in its discretion, may admit evidence of
standards existing outside of the community or vicinage.
   MATERIAL. Anything tangible which is capable of being used or adapted to
arouse interest, or to affect the human senses, whether through the medium of
reading, observation, sound or in any other manner.
   OBSCENE. The descriptive word used to modify any material or performance
which is an obscene work.
   OBSCENE WORK. Any work which when taken as a whole appeals to the prurient
interest in sex; which portrays sexual conduct in a patently offensive way; and
which, taken as a whole, does not have serious value. In determining whether or
not a work is an OBSCENE WORK, the trier of fact must find:
      (1)   The average person, applying contemporary community standards,
would find that the work, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest in
sex;
      (2)   The work depicts or describes in a patently offensive way sexual
conduct specifically defined herein or authoritatively by the courts of the
state as being a portrayal of patently offensive sexual conduct as that phrase
is used in the definition of an obscene work; and
      (3)   The work, taken as a whole, lacks serious literary, artistic,
political or scientific value.
   PATENTLY OFFENSIVE. So offensive on its face as to affront current standards
of decency.
   PERFORMANCE. Any play, motion picture, dance or other exhibition performed
before an audience.
   PROMOTE. To manufacture, issue, sell, give, provide, lend, mail, deliver,
transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate, present,
exhibit or advertise, or to offer or agree to do the same.
   SERIOUS VALUE. Serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Any of the following described sexual conduct if depicted or
described in a patently offensive way:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including genital- genital, anal-genital or oral-genital
intercourse, whether between human beings or between a human being and an
animal;
      (2)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed;
      (3)   Masturbation, excretory functions and lewd exhibitions of the
genitals, including any explicit, closeup representation of a human genital
organ or spread-eagle exposure of female genital organs;
      (4)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or
unclothed pubic area or buttocks of a human person, or the breasts of the human
female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or between
humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification;
      (5)   A device designed and marketed as useful primarily for stimulation
of the human genital organs;
      (6)   Male or female genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
      (7)   Covered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered; and/or
      (8)   Anatomical areas consisting of less than completely and opaquely
covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, anus or female breast(s) below
a point immediately above the top of the areola.
   STANDARDS OF DECENCY. Community standards of decency.
   WHOLESALE PROMOTE. To manufacture, issue, sell, provide, mail, deliver,
transfer, transmit, publish, distribute, circulate, disseminate or to offer or
agree to do the same for purposes of resale.
(Prior Code, § 1230.01)
§ 133.02 SEVERABILITY.
   If any of the descriptions or depictions of sexual conduct described in §
133.01 of this chapter are declared by a court of competent jurisdiction to be
unlawfully included therein because the descriptions or depictions are
constitutionally protected or for any other reason, the declaration shall not
invalidate this chapter as to other patently offensive sexual conduct included
therein.
(Prior Code, § 1230.03)
§ 133.03 OBSCENITY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person when knowing its content and character,
he or she:
   (A)   Wholesale promotes, promotes or possesses with intent to wholesale
promote or promote any obscene material; or
   (B)   Produces, presents or directs an obscene performance or participates
in a portion thereof which is obscene or which contributes to its obscenity.
(Prior Code, § 1230.05) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.04 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES.
   (A)   The provisions of §
133.03 of this chapter shall not apply to persons who may possess or distribute
obscene matter or participate in conduct otherwise proscribed by §
133.03 of this chapter when the possession, participation, distribution or
conduct occurs in the course of law enforcement activities, or in the course of
bona fide scientific, educational or comparable research or study, or like
circumstances of justification.
   (B)   BONA FIDE RESEARCH OR STUDY shall not include showings of obscene
matter to the public or to audiences or participants not regularly enrolled or
engaged in the research or study. The fact that a fee is charged directly or
indirectly for admission shall be, by itself, evidence of lack of bona fide
research or study.
(Prior Code, § 1230.07)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of §
133.03 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 1230.05)
CHAPTER 134: SEXUAL OFFENDERS AND PREDATORS
Section
   
134.01   Findings and intent
   
134.02   Definitions
   
134.03   Residence prohibition
   
134.04   Renting real property
 
   
134.99   Penalty
§ 134.01 FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Repeat sexual offenders, sexual offenders who use physical violence
and sexual offenders who prey on children are sexual predators who present an
extreme threat to the public safety. Sexual offenders are extremely likely to
use physical violence and to repeat their offenses, and most sexual offenders
commit many offenses, have many more victims than are ever reported, and are
prosecuted for only a fraction of their crimes. This makes the cost of sexual
offender victimization to society at large, while incalculable, clearly
exorbitant.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to serve the city’s compelling
interest to promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the city by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers wherein certain sexual offenders
and sexual predators are prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent
residence.
(Prior Code, § 750.01)
§ 134.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person who has been convicted of a designated
sexual offense, regardless of whether adjudication has been withheld, in which
the victim of the offense was less than 16 years of age, or has been
categorized as a level ME sex offender under M.S. § 244.052, as it may be
amended from time to time, or successor statute.
   DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE. A conviction, adjudication of delinquency,
commitment under M.S. Ch. 253B, as it may be amended from time to time, or
admission of guilt under oath without adjudication involving any of the
following offenses: M.S. §§ 609.342, 609.343, 609.344, 609.345, 609.352,
609.365, 617.23, 617.246, 617.247 and 617.293, as they may be amended from time
to time; successor statutes; or a similar offense from another state.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
14 or more consecutive days.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where the person abides, lodges or resides for
a period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person’s permanent address, or a place where the person routinely
abides, lodges or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Prior Code, § 750.02) (Ord. 2006-10, passed 7-5-2006)
§ 134.03 RESIDENCE PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence: within
1,500 feet of any school, licensed daycare center, park, swimming pool,
playground, any place of worship which provides regular educational programs
(i.e., Sunday school) or other places where children are known to congregate.
   (B)   Prohibited activity. It is unlawful for any designated offender to
participate in a holiday event involving children under 18 years of age, such
as distributing candy or other items to children on Halloween, wearing a Santa
Claus costume on or preceding Christmas or wearing an Easter bunny costume on
or preceding Easter. Holiday events in which the offender is the parent or
guardian of the children involved and no non-familial children are present are
exempt from this division (B).
   (C)   Measurement of distance.
      (1)   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the
requirement shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer
property line of the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest
outer property line of a school, daycare center, park, swimming pool,
playground, place of worship or other place where children regularly
congregate.
      (2)   The city’s Police Department shall maintain an official map showing
prohibited locations as defined by this chapter. The city’s Police Department
shall update the map at least annually to reflect any changes in the location
of prohibited zones.
   (D)   Exceptions. A designated offender residing within a prohibited area as
described in division (A) above does not commit a violation of this section if
any of the following applies:
      (1)   The person established the permanent residence or temporary
residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166
and 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or successor statute,
prior to adoption;
      (2)   The person was a minor when he or she committed the offense and was
not convicted as an adult;
      (3)   The person is a minor;
      (4)   The school or daycare center within 1,000 feet of the person’s
permanent residence was opened after the person established the permanent
residence or temporary residence and reported and registered the residence
pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 or 243.167, as they may be amended from time to
time;
      (5)   The residence is also the primary residence of the person’s
parents, grandparents, siblings, spouse or children; and/or
      (6)   The residence is a property owned or leased by the state’s
Department of Corrections.
(Prior Code, § 750.03) (Ord. 2006-10, passed 7-5-2006) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.04 RENTING REAL PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is unlawful to let or rent any place, structure or part thereof,
trailer or other conveyance, with the knowledge that it will be used as a
permanent residence or temporary residence by any person prohibited from
establishing a permanent residence or temporary residence pursuant to this
chapter, if such place, structure or part thereof, trailer or other conveyance,
is located within a prohibited location zone described in §
134.03(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   A property owner’s failure to comply with provisions of this section
shall constitute a violation of this section.
   (C)   If a property owner discovers or is informed that a tenant is a
designated offender after signing a lease or otherwise agreeing to let the
offender reside on the property, the owner or property manager may evict the
offender.
(Prior Code, § 750.04) Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as provided in §
10.99 of this code of ordinances and M.S. § 609.02, subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time. Each day a person maintains a residence in violation
of this chapter constitutes a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 750.03)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
      
152.   PLUMBING
      
153.   SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
      
154.   TOWERS
      
155.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
156.   STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS
      
157.   FORESTATION
      
158.   MINING AND EXTRACTION ACTIVITIES
      
159.   HERITAGE PRESERVATION
      
160.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
      
161.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
162.   ZONING AND SHORELANDS
      
163.   OUTDOOR SOLID WOOD BURNERS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Codes adopted by reference
   
150.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.03   Permits and fees
Building Numbering
   
150.15   Requirement
   
150.16   Assignment of numbers
   
150.17   New buildings
   
150.18   Administration
   
150.19   Size; type and location
   
150.20   Compliance
   
150.21   Enforcement and inspection
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, being Minn. Rules part 1300, as adopted
by the Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 to 326B.194,
as they may be amended from time to time, including all of the amendments,
rules and regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by
the state’s Commissioner of Administration, through the Building Codes and
Standards Division, is hereby adopted by reference, with the exception of the
optional chapters unless specifically adopted in this subchapter. The Minnesota
State Building Code being Minn. Rules part 1300, is hereby incorporated in this
subchapter as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 200.01) (Ord. passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 1300 and as modified by Minn. Rules Ch.
1305.
   (B)   The Building Official of the city shall be a state-certified building
official and be appointed by the City Council annually.
(Prior Code, § 200.02) (Ord. passed 8-5-2003)
§ 150.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized by M.S. § 326B.151, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council. In
addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work
governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 200.03) (Ord. passed 8-5-2003)
BUILDING NUMBERING
§ 150.15 REQUIREMENT.
   The owner of every residential, commercial or industrial structure, whether
public or private, shall place house numbers or building numbers, as herein
provided, on the structure. This shall not apply to accessory buildings,
private garages, barns or other similar accessory buildings or structures used
in connection with buildings or permanent structures displaying building
numbers.
(Prior Code, § 220.01) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.16 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   House and building number shall be assigned in a uniform manner.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the City Clerk to assign numbers to every
house or other building in the city and, if necessary, make changes in the
existing numbering system to provide for a uniform method of numbering.
(Prior Code, § 220.02) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007)
§ 150.17 NEW BUILDINGS.
   Whenever any house or other building is to be erected hereinafter, a number
shall be assigned at the time the building permit is granted. When property in
which a building is located is annexed to the city, or is moved into the city
in any manner, a number shall be assigned immediately by the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 220.03) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007)
§ 150.18 ADMINISTRATION.
   The developer or person building, at the time of submitting a preliminary
plat or plan or application for building permits, shall submit a building
numbering plan for review by the Planning Commission of the city.
(Prior Code, § 220.04) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007)
§ 150.19 SIZE; TYPE AND LOCATION.
   (A)   Each number of the address shall be three inches or greater in height
and shall be of a color that sharply contracts with the color of the background
to which it is attached. The numbers shall not be written.
   (B)   The assigned number for the house or building shall be displayed on
the side of the building facing the public street, which street is included in
the address of the building. The numbers shall be clearly visible from the
street.
   (C)   In those cases where the principal building is located more that 100
feet from the street of address, or if the principal building is obscured from
the view from the street address by accessory buildings, trees, shrubbery or
other visual obstruction, the numbers shall be displayed on the mailbox in
numerals not less than three inches high. The numbers shall be constructed of a
material which contrasts with the color of the background to which it is
attached. The mailbox shall be located on the public right-of-way adjacent to
the driveway or main entry to the property in which the principal building is
located.
   (D)   In those cases where there is no mailbox, and the principal building
is located more than 100 feet from the street of address, or if the principal
building is obscured from the view from the street of address by accessory
buildings, trees, shrubbery or other visual obstruction, the numbers shall be
displayed from a permanent sign post located on the public right-of-way
adjacent to the driveway or main entry to the property in which the principal
building is located. If placement of the address is required in the public
right-of-way, the property owner must obtain approval from the proper
jurisdiction prior to installation of the sign post. The numbers shall be no
less than three inches high and shall be of a color which contrasts with the
color of the background to which it is attached. The bottom of the number or
address shall be at least three feet above the ground.
   (E)   In cases where the principal building is occupied by more that one
business or family dwelling unit, each separate front entrance of the principal
building shall be marked by a separate number. The numbers shall be no less
than three inches high and shall be of a color which contrasts with the color
of the background to which it is attached.
(Prior Code, § 220.05) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.20 COMPLIANCE.
   Every owner of a building or structure shall comply in full with the
regulations set forth in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 220.06) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.21 ENFORCEMENT AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent or Chief of Police,
or their designated representatives, to enforce this subchapter.
   (B)   Inspection will take place every spring of the new year and will be
completed no later than June 1 in conjunction with the current sidewalk
inspections.
   (C)   Any owner not in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter
shall be sent notification of violation by certified mail with a 30-day time
period for compliance commencing on the date of receipt of the certified
notice.
(Prior Code, § 220.07) (Ord. passed 4-16-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
150.01 through
150.03 of this chapter is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 200.04)
   (C)   Whoever shall fail to comply with the provisions of §§
150.15 through
150.21 of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be
subject to those penalties contained in the state statute, as now exists or is
later amended.
(Prior Code, § 220.08)
(Ord. passed 8-5-2003; Ord. passed 4-16-2007)
CHAPTER 151: MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Mobile home location
   
151.03   Inspection
   
151.04   Minimum park requirements
   
151.05   Minimum mobile home lot requirements
   
151.06   Streets and parking
   
151.07   Sidewalks
   
151.08   Illumination
   
151.09   Fire protection
   
151.10   Occupancy and equipment requirements
§ 151.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory built structure or structures made so as to be
moveable as a dwelling unit or units on its or their own running gear, or a
structure or structures designed as a dwelling unit or units with a support
system consisting of wheels, jacks or skirtings. The removal of the running
gear, wheels, jacks or skirting shall not change the classification of the
structure or structures as a MOBILE HOME, as herein defined.
   MOBILE HOME LOT. A parcel of land for the placement of a single mobile home
and for the exclusive use of its occupants.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Contiguous parcels of land which are developed for the
placement of mobile homes and which are owned by a single entity rather than
parcels of individually owned.
   MOBILE HOME STAND. The part of an individual lot which has been reserved for
the placement of one mobile home unit.
(Prior Code, § 415.19)
§ 151.02 MOBILE HOME LOCATION.
   (A)   Until such time that a duly permitted mobile home park is established
in the city, all mobile homes shall be considered a temporary use and shall
require a permit therefor, to be applied for and issued annually by the City
Council. Fee to be charged is established in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Upon establishment of one or more duly permitted mobile home parks
within the city, all new mobile homes shall henceforth be located within the
parks or park. Mobile homes existing at the time of passage of this chapter
shall require a yearly permit, as long as the original owner remains as the
occupant.
(Prior Code, § 415.01)
§ 151.03 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The person so authorized by the City Council may make whatever
inspections are necessary to determine compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   If a determination is made that a violation exists, written
notification shall be given to the operator or owner of the mobile home park,
who will then be given a reasonable time to take corrective action. Any person
affected by the violation or any corrective action, who disagrees with such,
may request and receive a hearing before the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 415.03)
§ 151.04 MINIMUM PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. Conditions of soil ground, water level, drainage
and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the health and
safety of its occupants. The site should not be exposed to objectionable smoke,
noise, odors or other adverse influences, and no portion shall be subject to
predictable or sudden flooding.
   (B)   Soil and ground cover requirements. Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every mobile home park shall be paved or covered with stone or other
solid materials, or protected with a grass or vegetable growth that is capable
of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable dust. Flower and
vegetable gardens shall be permitted.
   (C)   Site drainage requirements. The ground surface in all parts of every
mobile home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a
safe, efficient manner.
   (D)   Use requirements. No part of any mobile home park shall be used for
non-residential purposes, except such uses that are required for the direct
servicing and well being of park residents and for the managements and
maintenance of the park.
   (E)   Area. Each mobile home park shall be of sufficient size to contain at
least ten fully developed mobile home lots and required accessory structures
and areas.
   (F)   Open space. At least 10% of the gross land area within each mobile
home park shall be designed and reserved for development for recreational
purposes. The space shall be developed and maintained by the owner of the park
and shall not include or infringe upon space designated for mobile home lots.
   (G)   Water supply. Each mobile home shall be serviced by the city water
system.
   (H)   Sewage disposal. Each mobile home shall be serviced by the city
sanitary sewer system.
   (I)   Utilities. All utilities shall be underground.
   (J)   Mobile park office. Each mobile home park shall maintain an office
which is clearly marked and which may be a mobile home or a part of a community
building. An adult caretaker shall be on duty at the park at all times.
   (K)   Fuel supply and storage. All fuel systems shall be maintained from a
common source, metered to the individual mobile home site and maintained in
accordance with applicable codes and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 415.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 MINIMUM MOBILE HOME LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Cluster development. Cluster development shall be encouraged.
   (B)   Density. A maximum of 50% of the mobile units shall be on sites with a
minimum of 5,000 square feet per unit in which the total density does not
exceed eight per acre, excluding street right-of- way. Making allowance for
smaller mobile units, at least 50% of the units may be on sites with a minimum
of 4,000 square feet per unit, in which the total density does not exceed ten
per acre, excluding street right-of-way.
   (C)   Mobile home locations. No mobile home shall be less than 15 feet from
another mobile home or other building. No mobile home shall be closer than 20
feet from the front lot line abutting a public street.
   (D)   Boundary area. No mobile home lot, off-street parking space or
building shall be located within 20 feet of the boundary of any mobile home
park. This boundary area shall be landscaped.
   (E)   Additions. It shall not be permitted to construct, erect, attach or
cause to be constructed, erected or attached an enclosed room, wing, annex,
entrance or other similar structure on any mobile home lot unless the same is
so designed and constructed of compatible material retaining the basic design
of the original mobile home; provided further that, the total of the additional
structure or structures shall not exceed 25% of the square feet of the basic
unit. The additions shall comply with all side lot, front lot and rear lot
restrictions designated by this chapter for mobile home lots.
   (F)   Occupied areas. The occupied area of a mobile home lot shall not
exceed 50% of the total area of the lot. This restriction shall apply to
coverage by the mobile home and any connecting or attached structures.
   (G)   Landscaping. The yards of each mobile home lot shall be landscaped.
   (H)   Maintenance. It shall be the responsibility of the mobile park owner
to maintain landscaping, including regular mowing of the grass of all common
areas. Landscaping and mowing individual lot areas may be made the
responsibility of tenants under the terms of property lease or sale agreements.
   (I)   Numbers. Each mobile home lot shall be identified by number and the
number shall be prominently posted.
   (J)   Boats, trailers, equipment. All boats, boat trailers, snowmobiles,
hauling trailers and all other equipment not stored within the mobile home or
community building or utility enclosure that may have been provided shall be
stored in a separate area and not upon the lots occupied by the mobile homes,
nor upon the streets within the mobile home park.
   (K)   Tree planting. At least one shade tree shall be placed and maintained
for each mobile home lot.
(Prior Code, § 415.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 STREETS AND PARKING.
   (A)   Streets. All mobile home parks shall be provided with safe and
convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets or roads to each
mobile home lot. The streets may be either public or private as agreed upon
between the mobile home park owner and the City Council.
   (B)   Internal streets. Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic and, in any case, shall meet the following
minimum requirements.
      (1)   All streets, except minor streets, shall be at least 24 feet in
width.
      (2)   Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to 500 feet and shall
be provided at the closed end with a turn-around having an outside roadway
diameter of at least 80 feet. All dead-end streets shall be marked with
approved signs at the entrance to the dead-end street.
      (3)   Minor streets shall be a minimum of 20 feet in width (acceptable
only if less than 500 feet long and serving less than 25 mobile homes or of any
length if mobile home lots abut on one side only) and shall have one-way
traffic or parking on one side only.
      (4)   All streets shall be hard surfaced.
   (C)   Street construction and design standards.
      (1)   All streets shall be provided with a paved concrete or bituminous
surface.
      (2)   Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of the
wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street surfaces shall be
maintained, free of cracks, holes and other hazards.
      (3)   Longitudinal grades of all streets shall range between 0.4% and 8%.
Transverse grades of all streets shall be sufficient to ensure adequate
drainage.
      (4)   If conditions warrant, an adequate storm sewer system shall be
provided to dispose of all runoff water. The storm sewer system may be
connected to existing city storm sewer system upon city approval.
      (5)   Public streets within 50 feet of an intersection shall be at right
angles.
   (D)   Parking. Each mobile home lot shall have at least one parking space.
In addition, one off-street parking space shall be provided for each mobile
home lot. The spaces may be in compounds, but no mobile home lot shall be more
than 200 feet from the compound. All parking space shall be hard-surfaced
concrete, bituminous or crushed rock treated so it is dust free. No parking
shall be permitted on the park entrance for a distance of 100 feet from its
point of beginning.
(Prior Code, § 415.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 SIDEWALKS.
   All mobile homes shall have walks connecting them to the roadway. The
individual walks shall have a minimum width of two feet.
(Prior Code, § 415.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 ILLUMINATION.
   All mobile home parks shall be furnished with lighting units spaced and
equipped to meet current city standards for residential areas. Lighting along
public streets shall be provided by the city in accord with the same policies
and regulations which apply to residential areas.
(Prior Code, § 415.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 FIRE PROTECTION.
   (A)   Fires shall be made only in stoves, incinerators or equipment intended
for such purposes.
   (B)   Portable fire extinguisher rated for Class A, B and C fires shall be
kept visible in service buildings and at other locations conveniently and
readily accessible for use by all of the occupants and shall be maintained in
good operating condition.
(Prior Code, § 415.15)
§ 151.10 OCCUPANCY AND EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Transient occupancy. Approval may be granted for transient occupancy
of homes in a mobile home park. Approval may be also be granted for rental
lots. Ownership of mobile homes in a park may be either by the park owner or by
individual owners.
   (B)   Mobile home stands, anchors. Each mobile home shall have a stand which
shall be constructed in a manner that it will not heave, shift or settle under
the weight of the mobile home due to inadequate drainage, vibration or other
forces acting on the superstructure. The mobile home stand shall be provided
with anchors, arrowhead anchors or other devices ensuring the stability of the
mobile home. Tie-downs or anchors shall be placed at least at each corner of
the mobile home stand to provide a readily accessible anchor for the mobile
home and each shall be able to sustain a minimum tensile strength of 2,800
pounds.
   (C)   Skirts.
      (1)   Skirting of a permanent type of material and construction shall be
installed to enclose the open space between the bottom of a mobile home floor
and the grade level of the mobile home stands and shall be so constructed to
provide substantial resistance to heavy winds.
      (2)   Skirting shall be maintained in an attractive manner consistent
with the exterior of the mobile home.
      (3)   Sufficient screened, ventilating area shall be installed in the
skirting to supply the combustion requirements of heating units and other
ventilating requirements of the mobile home. Provision shall be made for easy
removal of a section large enough to permit access for inspection for repairs
on sewer and water connections.
   (D)   Electrical connections. Each mobile home stand shall be provided with
an approved disconnecting device and over-current protective equipment. The
minimum service per mobile home stand outlet shall be according to city
specifications.
   (E)   Water and sewer connections. Water and sewer connections shall satisfy
the requirements of state and city codes and regulations. Adequate provision
must be made to prevent freezing of water and service lines and connections.
   (F)   Restriction on occupancy. A mobile home shall not be occupied for
dwelling purposes until it is properly placed on a mobile home stand and is
connected to water, sewage and electrical utilities.
   (G)   Notification. It is the responsibility of the park management to
notify all occupants of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 415.17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: PLUMBING
Section
   
152.01   Permit required
   
152.02   Exception
   
152.03   Insurance
   
152.04   Surety bond
§ 152.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or persons shall hereafter construct, alter or repair any plumbing
connected with the sewer or water system of the city until he or she or they
have first obtained a permit from the Utilities Commission to do the work.
(Prior Code, § 210.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 EXCEPTION.
   This chapter shall not apply to the construction, alteration or repair of
any plumbing from the building’s water meter into and including the internal
plumbing of a building.
(Prior Code, § 210.03)
§ 152.03 INSURANCE.
   (A)   The applicant for a permit under this chapter shall file with the City
Clerk a policy or policies of insurance, insuring the applicant against
liability imposed by law in the amount of $100,000 because of bodily injury to
or death of one person per accident, $250,000 because of bodily injury to or
death of more than one person per accident and $50,000 property damage
liability per accident.
   (B)   The policy of insurance shall provide that it may not be cancelled by
the insurer, except upon written notice to the city.
   (C)   If the insurance policy is cancelled, the permit is suspended until
the insurance has been reinstated.
(Prior Code, § 210.05)
§ 152.04 SURETY BOND.
   Any person engaging in any work within the city for which a plumbing permit
is required, before the work is commenced, shall execute and file with the city
a surety bond in the amount of $2,000, payable to the city and executed by a
surety company authorized to do business in the state. The bond shall be
conditioned so that the applicant shall, in all respects, well and faithfully
perform all things by him or her undertaken in the making of connections,
repairs or work of any kind with the municipal water and sewer mains, private
water and sewer lines, or any plumbing in the city, and it shall save the city
and its property owners and residents harmless from all accidents and damages
consequent thereto, or by any reason of any work not approved by the Building
Inspector and not promptly corrected, or by reason of any opening in any street
or public way made by him or her or by any person in his or her employ for the
purpose of installing service lines connected with the municipal water or
sewage system. All surety bonds must be renewed at least annually.
(Prior Code, § 210.07)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Permits and application process
   
153.04   Appeals
   
153.05   Variances
   
153.06   Damaged or unsafe signs
   
153.07   Vacated property sign removal
Types and Standards
   
153.20   Non-conforming signs
   
153.21   Prohibited signs
   
153.22   Exemptions and exceptions
   
153.23   Rules and definitions
   
153.24   Measurements and locations
   
153.25   Illumination
   
153.26   Temporary signs
   
153.27   Substitution of non-commercial speech and content neutrality
   
153.28   Signs in road rights-of-way
   
153.29   Signs on city property
Regulations by District
   
153.40   General
   
153.41   Residential Conservancy
   
153.42   Rural Residential/Limited Agriculture
   
153.43   Rural Residential Growth/Transitional
   
153.44   Residential districts (R-1, R-2 and R-3)
   
153.45   Traditional Downtown Commercial
   
153.46   Historic Overlay
   
153.47   General Commercial
   
153.48   Highway Commercial
   
153.49   Industrial
 
   
153.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare through reasonable, consistent and non-discriminatory sign
standards in the city.
   (B)   The regulations contained herein are not intended to censor speech or
regulate viewpoints, but are instead intended to regulate the secondary effects
of signage on health, safety and welfare, particularly where these effects
contribute adversely to:
      (1)   Pedestrian, motorized and non-motorized traffic safety;
      (2)   Aesthetics of the city environs and the ability of the community to
attract and maintain business and industry as sources of economic development
and growth; and/or
      (3)   Private property values and the use and enjoyment of property to
its fullest extent consistent with the purposes outlined in the property’s
particular zoning district.
   (C)   In order to avoid the adverse effects of signage, this chapter shall
direct the time, place and manner of signs and their display such that these
regulations will serve to:
      (1)   Encourage the effective design and placement of signs as a means of
communication for both commercial and non-commercial speech;
      (2)   Foster the integration of signage with architectural and landscape
design;
      (3)   Encourage and allow signs that are appropriate to the purpose and
requirements of the zoning district in which they are located;
      (4)   Establish sign size in relationship to the scale of the lot and
building on which the sign is to be placed;
      (5)   Allow signs that are compatible with their surroundings and aid
orientation while regulating the place and manner of the signs so as not to
interfere with, obstruct the vision or distract motorists, bicyclists or
pedestrians; and
      (6)   Regulate the appearance and design of signs in a manner that
promotes and enhances the appearance of the city and that complements the
natural and cultural surroundings with its important role in attracting
visitors to the community and the importance this plays in the local economy.
(Prior Code, § 310.01)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. See COMMERCIAL SIGN.
   ANIMATED SIGNS. A sign depicting action, motion, light or color changes
through electrical or mechanical means. Although technologically similar to
flashing signs, the ANIMATED SIGN emphasizes graphics and artistic display,
This includes, but is not limited to, dynamic signs.
   ARCHITECTURALLY INCORPORATED FEATURES. Artwork, corner stones, dates and
names on cornice or incorporated into other parts of the structure in brick,
stone or other permanent means into the architecture of a structure.
   ARTWORK. Two or three-dimensional representation of a creative idea that is
expressed in a form and manner as to provide aesthetic enjoyment for the viewer
rather than to specifically convey the name of the business or a commercial
message about the products or services offered on the property upon which the
artwork is displayed. This includes images integrated into the structure via
brick, stone or other architectural detail.   
   AWNING. A roof-like structural element (also called a MARQUEE) to provide
shelter from the weather constructed of rigid or non-rigid materials on a
supporting framework which either:
      (1)   Projects from and is supported entirely by the exterior wall of a
building typically over a window or doorway; or
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1651.jpg]
 
      (2)   Projects from and is supported on one end from the building and on
the outer end by not less than one stanchion, pillar or post. (See also
CANOPY.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1655.jpg]
 
   AWNING SIGN. A sign that is incorporated into an awning by either print or
directly adhering to the awning material.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1659.jpg]
 
   BACK LIT CUTOUT SIGN. A sign that is lit from behind or within where the
sign message is cutout or clear to allow the light to shine through only in
those locations (as opposed to a back lit sign with a translucent glowing sign
face).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1661.jpg]
 
   BACK LIT SIGN/HALO. An illuminated message (sign copy) with an open or
translucent back, so light from the copy is directed against the surface behind
the copy producing a halo lighting effect around the copy. Also referred to as
SILHOUETTE LIGHTED or HALO LIGHTED.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1663.jpg]
 
   BALLOONS, INFLATABLES, DANCING WIND, WIND, AIR BLADES OR WIND BLADE SIGNS,
DYNAMIC FLAGS, DYNAMIC TUBES. Typically made of nylon or other flexible
material which use blowers, helium or natural wind is used to inflate or create
movement to attract attention to the premises or sign.
   BANNER/COMMERCIAL FLAG. A sign made of fabric, plastic, vinyl or other non-
rigid material which has no enclosing framework; may be painted, screen-
printed, digitally printed or decorated with decals and may be used for either
permanent or temporary signage.
   BENCH SIGN. A freestanding sign located on the seat or back of a bench or
seat or other type of street furniture.
   BOX SIGN. See CABINET SIGN.
   BUILDING-MOUNTED SIGN. A sign that is applied or attached to a building.
(See also WALL SIGNS.)
   BUSINESS.
      (1)   For the purpose of determining the maximum number of signs per
structure or business, a separate BUSINESS is considered any operation that has
a different name than other businesses in the same location.
      (2)   Individual dwelling units would qualify for the same amount of
signage as individual BUSINESSES.
   CABINET SIGN. A sign which is totally enclosed and which may have internal
lighting. Most box signs have translucent plastic portions carrying text on one
or more faces.
   CANOPY. A roof-like shelter which is (unlike an awning) supported entirely
by stanchions, pillars or posts and is not connected to a building. (See also
AWNING.)
   CANOPY SIGN. A sign that is incorporated into or attached to a canopy,
typically along the horizontal sides of a canopy roof.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1665.jpg]
 
   CHANGEABLE COPY PANEL. A section of a sign that functions as a changeable
copy sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1667.jpg]
 
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (PERMANENT). A sign composed of individual letters
panel- mounted in or on a track system, chalk or white boards where the message
may be regularly altered, but where the sign face and sign structure is
permanent (including portable signs that are displayed in a permanent manner).
   CHANGEABLE TEMPORARY SIGN. The use of temporary type signs (such as banners)
that are permanently displayed, but periodically changed to advertise different
messages (i.e., for seasonal events, sale events, daily specials or changing
products or exhibits).
   CHANNEL LETTER. Fabricated or formed three-dimensional letter that may
accommodate a light source. (Also referred to as a CAN LETTER.)
   CIVIC, NON-PROFIT OR CHARITABLE EVENTS. A special event (as opposed to an
ongoing operation) that is sponsored and/or organized by a government or
charitable organization registered as a 501c3 with the IRS.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE/SIGN. Any wording, logo or other representation or image
as part of a sign that directly or indirectly names, advertises or calls
attention to a product, service, sale or sales event or other commercial
activity.
   CONFORMING SIGN. A sign that is legally installed in accordance with
federal, state and local laws and ordinances.
   COPY. The words or message displayed on a sign.
   COPY AREA. Areas that enclose the actual copy on a sign. (See also §
153.24 of this chapter.)
   COVERAGE. A total amount of area of signage covering a wall, message
covering a sign or a similar comparison described as a percentage or as a
number.
   DECAL. Words, graphics or a combination of the two screen printed on the
non-adhesive side of vinyl film, then cut to a specified shape using a plotter
or die and (when used as a sign) adhered to a surface for display.
   DIRECT ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign that is illuminated by an external light
source that is directed towards and shines on the face of a sign as opposed to
internal illumination.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1669.jpg]
 
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Signs designed to provide direction to pedestrian and
vehicular traffic including guide signs that show community or neighborhood
identification, designations, routes, directions, distances, services, points
of interest and other geographical, recreational or cultural information.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. A sign that identifies the names and locations of tenants in
a multi-tenant building or in a development made up of a group of buildings.
(See also MULTI-TENANT SIGN.)
   DISPLAYED PERMANENTLY. See PERMANENT SIGN.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign with two parallel opposing (back-to-back) faces.
   DYNAMIC/DIGITAL SIGN. Signage where content is displayed in a digital format
usually consisting of a computer or playback device connected to a digital
screen such as an LCD or plasma display.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER. A variable message sign that utilizes computer-
generated messages or some other electronic means of changing copy. These signs
include displays using incandescent lamps, LEDs, LCDs or a flipper matrix.
   FACE (SIGN). The decorated surface of a sign the area on which the sign
copy, logo and other design is placed.
   FASCIA SIGN. See WALL SIGN.
   FLAG. The flag of the United States of America or any officially adopted
state, local or organizational flag of a non-commercial nature.
   FLAG SIGN. See also BANNERS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1671.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1673.jpg]
 
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign that is not attached to a building, but is
permanently attached to the ground and not portable.
   FRONTAGE. See PUBLIC FRONTAGE.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign that emits or reflects light from either an
internal (electric) source or external floodlights.
   INFLATABLE. See BALLOONS, INFLATABLES...ETC.
   INTERIM TEMPORARY SIGN. A temporary sign that is used in lieu of a permanent
sign and typically used prior to the placement of a permanent sign.
   INTERNALLY ILLUMINATED SIGNS. A sign that is illuminated by a light source
that is contained inside the sign, as opposed to directly illuminated from an
outside source.
   LOGO. A design that represents goods, identity or service. Traditionally,
any group of type characters such as a company name or product name linked or
grouped and displayed in a fixed format and not to be confused with company
symbols, abstract or pictorial. The term is currently used to describe any
design or symbol, with or without supporting lettering, prepared for a
corporation or organization which forms the centerpiece of its corporate
identity.
   MAINTENANCE (OF A SIGN). Repair of individual elements of a sign or sign
structure up to 50% of its replacement value over the life of the sign, which
do not include relocation or enlargement of the sign. Repair includes re-
painting or the replacement of a damaged sign face.
   MARQUEE SIGN. See AWNING SIGN.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A free standing sign sitting directly on the ground or
mounted on a low base.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1675.jpg]
 
   MULTI-TENANT/DIRECTORY SIGN. An exterior sign that identifies names and
locations of tenants in a multi-tenant building or development of a group of
buildings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1677.jpg]
 
   NON-COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any message which is not a commercial message.
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGNAGE. Signs containing commercial messages which pertain to
businesses, products, services or events which are not sold or available on the
property or premises where the sign is located. Also known as OUTDOOR
ADVERTISING.
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. A communication device whose message and design relates to
a business, an event, goods, profession or service being conducted, sold or
offered on the same property as there the sign is erected.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign which is not temporary in nature (see TEMPORARY SIGN
definition) and is intended to be used for the duration of the use of the site.
This includes portable signs that do not meet the definition of temporary sign.
   PERMANENTLY ATTACHED SIGN. A sign attached to a building, structure or the
ground in a manner that enables the sign to resist normal environmental loads,
such as wind, and precludes ready removal or movement of the sign.
   PORCELAIN SIGN. A traditional type of metal sign utilizing porcelain enamel
paints topped by a ceramic slip to create a durable, glass-like surface that is
impervious to the environments, particularly popular in the early 20th century.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign not permanently secured or attached to the ground or
surface upon which it is located, but supported by its own frame or pole and
capable of being easily repositioned by means of lifting and moving or rolling
on attached wheels. These include, but are not limited to, yard signs, sandwich
boards and flag signs.
   POST SIGN. A freestanding sign similar to a pole/pylon sign, but shorter
than eight feet in height and (unlike a yard sign) placed permanently onsite.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1679.jpg]
 
   PROJECTED IMAGE SIGN. A commercial message which is projected through light
onto a building or similar structure surface.
   PROJECTING SIGN.
      (1)   A sign which projects at right angles to a wall and is designed to
be viewed from up or down the street.
      (2)   PROJECTING SIGNS usually have graphics on either side.
      (3)   A building-mounted sign with the faces of the sign perpendicular to
the building fascia.
   PUBLIC FRONTAGE. The part of a lot or parcel that directly abuts a public
right-of-way.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. Publicly-owned or controlled streets, alleys, trails or
other travel ways held open for public use.
   PYLON/POLE SIGN. A permanent freestanding sign eight feet or taller, with
visible support structure, usually double-faced, mounted on one or more round
poles, square tubes or other fabricated members without any type of secondary
support.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1681.jpg]
 
   ROOF SIGN. A building-mounted sign erected on the roof of a building,
including “sky signs”, “painted” (or applied) and “created” roof signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1683.jpg]
 
   SHORT-TERM TEMPORARY SIGN. A temporary sign that is not permanently attached
to a building or permanent freestanding sign structure where there is a limited
amount of time allowed for display and which may contain an off-premises
message unless off-premises signs are specifically prohibited in that district
(e.g., sale or special event sign).
   SIDEWALK SIGN. A portable sign not secured or attached to or into the ground
or surface upon which it is located, but supported by its own frame. These
include A-frame or sandwich board signs as well as other small portable
freestanding signs not necessarily placed on the sidewalk or within a right-
of-way.
   SIGHT VISIBILITY TRIANGLE. The area of visibility required on a corner to
allow for the safe operation of vehicles, trains, pedestrians and cyclists in
the proximity of intersecting streets, rail lines, sidewalks and bicycle paths.
   SIGN. Any presentation or representation by letter, symbol, number or
combination thereof which does not meet the definition of “artwork” or
“architecturally incorporated feature” as defined in this chapter and is placed
on a property for the purpose of making something known outside of the
structure. SIGNS include, but are not limited to, figures, devices, pennants,
emblems and pictures. SIGNS do not include the interior of buildings or the
delineative elements thereof with the exception of “window signs”, as defined
herein. (For a list of SIGNS not regulated by this chapter, see §
153.22 of this chapter.)
   SIGN PLAN. One or more drawings and accompanying lists that illustrate all
signage planned for a building or site, indicating locations, size, style and
other information of signs proposed.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign which is suspended underneath an awning, canopy or
overhanging roof structure by means of brackets, hooks, chains or similar
means.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is displayed for a specified period of time,
typically for a periodic or one time special event. This includes “interim”,
“short-term” and “changeable” signs.
   THREE-DIMENSIONAL FREESTANDING SIGN. A permanent structure separate of a
building that provides a sign, which is a three-dimensional figure.
   THREE-DIMENSIONAL SIGN. This includes any spherical, free-form, sculptural
or other non-planar advertising device either freestanding, hanging or
projecting from a structure.
   WALL SIGN. A sign that is painted on a wall or flat signs that are placed on
or attached to the wall of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1685.jpg]
 
   WIND SIGNS. See BALLOONS, INFLATABLES...ETC.
   WINDOW SIGN. A sign that is directly applied to the window (as in paint) or
adhered to the window (glass or frame) by means such as decals, glue or other
adhesives.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1687.jpg]
 
   YARD SIGN. A portable sign with an unchangeable permanent sign face of up to
nine square feet posted on wire, wooden, plastic, metal or similar stakes,
frame, poles or posts (with or without metal anchors) placed on or inserted
into the ground without cement or other similar permanent anchoring techniques.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1689.jpg]
 
   YEAR. Calendar year from January to January.
   ZONING DISTRICTS. As used to regulate sign locations defined in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances, as adopted or modified.
(Prior Code, § 310.16)
§ 153.03 PERMITS AND APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Unless exempt under §
153.22 of this chapter, no sign shall be erected, altered, relocated,
maintained or displayed until a sign permit and/or other required authorization
is obtained from the city. The sign permit is in addition to any building or
other permit required to be obtained pursuant to the provisions of the city’s
Building Code, or other city, county or state law.
   (A)   Types of approval.
      (1)   Sign permit. A fee based city staff authorization process. This is
used to verify that the amount, location and other regulatory requirements for
signs and sign structures are met for each proposed sign.
      (2)   Design review/Commission approval. This includes design review by
the Heritage Preservation Commission (HPC) for properties in designated
Historic District(s) and review as part of conditional or interim use permits
by the Planning Commission. In cases where Commission approval is required,
this must occur prior to the issuance of a sign permit.
      (3)   Staff approval. This is city staff approval where no fee is
required. Depending on the requirement of the particular district, this is used
for cases where signs that have already been approved are relocated or a sign
face is altered.
      (4)   Signs that require a conditional or interim use permit (CUP or IUP)
or approval as part of a plat.
         (a)   These signs require a separate application and approval of a
CUP/IUP unless the signage is approved under a CUP/IUP for the entire project
(a CUP or IUP issued under
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances).
         (b)   Signs requiring a CUP/IUP associated with a land use that
requires an IUP (under
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances) require an IUP. Such signs associated with
a land use that requires a CUP require a CUP. For signs that require a CUP/IUP
where the associated use does not require a special permit, a CUP is required.
         (c)   For signs that require a CUP/IUP or approval as part of a plat,
these may be approved during the platting process as specified in
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
         (d)   A sign permit is also still required unless indicated in the
approved CUP/IUP. Conditions for signage under a CUP/IUP will be based on the
conditions contained in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances under the district the sign is located.
   (B)   Permits required deadline. Any sign that was not in existence or in
place on the date of the adoption of this chapter, shall not hereafter be
displayed, nor shall any existing sign be enlarged, relocated, changed or
modified until a sign permit for the same has been obtained in accordance with
this section and all other applicable regulations. Any sign that was installed
after 2-10-1988 without a permit is hereby considered an illegal sign.
   (C)   Permits required for sign maintenance or replacement. When a sign face
alone is being modified or other sign parts that do not change the height,
setbacks or other sign standards.
      (1)   Staff approval is required to verify no unauthorized off-premises
signage is being displayed, but no permit or fee is required.
      (2)   If located in the Historic District and color, font or style and
design of the sign face is modified, HPC design review and approval is
required.
      (3)   For all non-conforming signs where there is a change of the sign
face, staff approval is required for the purpose of verifying that the non-
conformity is not being expanded and to document and record the changes.
      (4)   Maintenance, repair or restoration of non-conforming signs must be
in accordance with §
153.20 of this chapter.
   (D)   Sign permit application requirements. Every application for a permit
shall include the following:
      (1)   Application form as provided by the city’s Planning Department;
      (2)   A diagram and narrative or notations indicating the exact size
(area and dimensions), structure (sign type), design (layout, color, font and
the like) and location proposed for the sign; and
      (3)   A permit fee as established in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Issuance of sign permits in the Historic District.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a sign permit for a new sign, the
replacement of an existing sign, or the relocation of an existing sign, in the
Downtown Historic District, the applicant shall receive approval from the
city’s Heritage Preservation Commission through the design review process. As
an exception, if a sign which was previously approved by the HPC is relocated
to another property/site within the Historic District within one year from HPC
approval, no additional HPC design review is required. A sign permit is still
required to verify that the sign meets the size, location, amount of signage
and all other standards of the district for its new location.
      (2)   The Historic District is described in
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances (or as amended).
(Prior Code, § 310.02)
§ 153.04 APPEALS.
   Appeals from any decision of the Planning Department may be taken to the
Planning Commission in the same method as a variance request. Appeals from any
decision of the Planning Commission or Heritage Preservation Commission may be
taken by any person grieved by any decision of the Commission to the City
Council by filing a written notice of appeal with the City Clerk, specifying
the grounds for appeal, within ten days of the decision of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 310.03)
§ 153.05 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variance situations. Application for a variance from sign standards
may be made for the following circumstances:
      (1)   To permit any yard or setback less than a yard or setback required
by the application regulations;
      (2)   To permit a sign larger than the sign requirements for the
applicable location;
      (3)   To permit a sign at a height greater than the maximum allowable
height;
      (4)   To permit a sign extension from a building greater than the maximum
allowable distance as provided herein;
      (5)   To permit a type of sign not listed within the district (but only
if it is not specifically listed as prohibited in the district or in §
153.21 of this chapter); and
      (6)   To permit a greater quantity (number of individual signs) than the
maximum number allowed.
   (B)   Variance criteria. Requests for variances will be considered in the
following instances. Before a variance is granted, the Planning Commission
shall make findings as to how the situation meets the following criteria and it
is the responsibility of the applicant to prove these conditions exist:
      (1)   The sign variance request is due to unusual conditions pertaining
to signage needs for a specific building or lot that do not apply generally to
other properly in the same vicinity and zoning district;
      (2)   The sign would not create a hazard (including, but not limited to,
obstruction of site lines);
      (3)   The sign would not violate state statutes or rules and regulations
developed pursuant hereto;
      (4)   The sign would not adversely affect residential property through
excessive glare and lighting; and/or
      (5)   The sign would be in keeping with the general character of the
surrounding area.
   (C)   Variance process.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be filed in writing with the
Planning Department on forms provided and shall contain such information as the
Planning Commission may by rule require.
      (2)   Notice of the time and place of such public hearing shall be given
by mailing notice thereof to all persons owning property within 100 feet of the
proposed sign location property at least five days prior to the hearing.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority and power to hear
and grant variances from the literal provisions of this section for the
erection of a new sign in instances where strict enforcement of this section
would cause practical difficulties due to circumstances unique to the
individual sign under consideration and grant the variance only when it is
demonstrated that such action will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
this section.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall not issue an approval for a variance
within any established Historic District without the city’s Heritage
Preservation Commission having the opportunity to review and provide comment on
the application, unless 60 days from the date of the application for the
variance has been received has elapsed.
      (5)   Fee for a variance is as established in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 310.03)
§ 153.06 DAMAGED OR UNSAFE SIGNS.
   The Planning Office shall require the immediate repair or removal of any
sign or sign structure which has been damaged or has deteriorated so as to
become a public hazard. Such a sign or sign structure may be restored to its
original condition within 30 days of the order to remove the hazard and, if the
sign is non-conforming, the restoration is in accordance with §
153.20 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 310.03)
§ 153.07 VACATED PROPERTY SIGN REMOVAL.
   (A)   Non-conforming sign removal. Upon vacating premises, a tenant or, in
his or her absence, the property owner shall remove all non-conforming signs,
sign supports and attendant hardware.
   (B)   Conforming sign removal. All conforming signs, sign supports and
attendant hardware not used by a new tenant or new owner shall be removed by
the new owner within one year of the premises being vacated; if reoccupied, a
new tenant or new owner has three months to use or remove all signs, sign
supports or attendant hardware.
(Prior Code, § 310.03) Penalty, see §
153.99
TYPES AND STANDARDS
§ 153.20 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   No increase in non-conformity.
      (1)   In cases where signs existing as non-conforming on a property
exceed the total allowable sign area, no additional signs shall be permitted.
      (2)   If the size or configuration of a parcel is changed, signs on the
resulting properties shall be required to conform to the sign regulations
applicable to the newly created parcels at the time such change becomes
effective.
   (B)   Maintenance and modifications.
      (1)   All non-conforming signs (faces and structures) shall be maintained
and repainted in such a manner as to not increase the degree of non-conformity.
      (2)   A damaged sign that is non-conforming due to setback, size, height
and/or maximum sign amount requirements may be repaired, provided it is not
damaged in excess of 50% of its replacement value. The damaged signs may not be
expanded and may only be relocated if relocation decreases the degree of non-
conformity and are located outside of any required site line triangles.
      (3)   The face of a sign that is non-conforming due to its setback, size,
height, off-premises status and/or maximum sign amount requirements and which
has a plastic, vinyl or similar removable face may be changed if damaged or if
the owner wishes to change the sign message as long as there is no increase to
the degree of non-conformity. In cases where the type of sign (e.g., cabinet
sign, internal lit sign, pylon sign) is non-conforming, the face may not be
replaced.
(Prior Code, § 310.05) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.21 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited:
   (A)   A sign which copies or imitates or in any way approximates an official
highway sign or carries the words “STOP” or “DANGER” or any sign which obscures
a sign displayed by public authority for the purpose of giving traffic
instruction or direction or other public information;
   (B)   A sign which displays flashing or intermittent lights or lights of
changing degrees or intensity unless each interval in the cycle is four seconds
or more and the sign does not constitute a traffic hazard;
   (C)   A sign which obstructs any window or door opening used as a means of
egress or prevents free passage from one part of a roof to any other part
thereof. A sign which interferes with an opening required for legal
ventilation;
   (D)   Roof signs, except when only seen from above (such as helicopter
landing site);
   (E)   A sign in a public right-of-way that in any way interferes with normal
or emergency use of that right-of-way. Any sign allowed in a public right-of-
way may be ordered removed by the Planning Department upon 30 days’ notice if
the use of that right-of-way is changed to require its removal;
   (F)   A sign or illumination that causes any direct glare into or upon any
building other than the building to which the sign may be accessory;
   (G)   A sign that violates any provision of any law of the state relative to
outdoor advertising;
   (H)   An advertising (commercial) sign located within 600 feet of any
interchange or intersection at grade, or any interstate, freeway or highway to
the nearest point of the beginning or ending or pavement widening at the exit
or entrance to the main travel way; and
   (I)   Any sign or sign structure that would meet the definition of a
nuisance under §§
91.15 through
91.20 of this code of ordinances (or as amended).
(Prior Code, § 310.06) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.22 EXEMPTIONS AND EXCEPTIONS.
   The following are exempted or excepted:
   (A)   Signs under one square foot in size;
   (B)   Public regulatory, warning and traffic guide signs erected by a
government entity consistent with criteria set out in the Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD);
   (C)   Artwork and architecturally incorporated features on buildings,
structures or sites (note that in some areas these items do require a design
review);
   (D)   Address numbers and or street name located at the address location up
to three square feet;
   (E)   Balloons up to 12-inch diameter;
   (F)   Flags of official currently existing governments including federal,
state or local governments or military units (e.g., POW/MIA flags) meeting the
following standards:
      (1)   Commercial or mixed uses (buildings or sites): maximum size of ten
square feet, maximum number of three flags exempt (larger and additional flags
require a sign permit); and
      (2)   Governmental or residential uses (buildings or sites): no maximum
size or number.
   (G)   Signs directing traffic on private property, but bearing no commercial
message (e.g., “enter”, “exit” and “loading zone”);
   (H)   Holiday or religious decorations which do not contain any commercial
messages;
   (I)   Memorial tablets containing non-commercial messages (e.g., grave
markers or memorials);
   (J)   In any district and on any property, all non-commercial signs of any
size may be posted in any number from August 1 in a state general election year
until ten days following the state general election; and
   (K)   Signs deemed to be of historic significance by the city’s Heritage
Preservation Commission. (See §§
153.40 through
153.49 of this chapter.)
(Prior Code, § 310.07)
§ 153.23 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   Any time a sign meets the definition of more than one sign type (e.g., an
“internal lit” “freestanding” “changeable copy” and “monument” sign),
requirements for all sign types apply.
(Prior Code, § 310.08)
§ 153.24 MEASUREMENTS AND LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Computation of sign face area.
      (1)   The area of a sign face enclosed in a frame or cabinet shall be
determined on the basis of the outer dimensions of the frame or cabinet
surrounding the sign face. Where the frame or cabinet is not in the shape of a
rectangle, square, triangle or circle, the sign face area shall be determined
by calculating the area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme
limits of the message delineated by the sign message.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1691.jpg]
 
      (2)   (a)   The area of an attached sign where the sign consists of
letters, numerals or symbols painted on or affixed to a wall shall be the
entire area within a continuous perimeter enclosing the extreme limits of the
message delineated by the letters, numerals or symbols.
         (b)   Where the message consists of more than one word, the words
grouped together shall constitute one sign unless the space between words is
greater than the average widths of the letters or symbols used in the sign.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1693.jpg]
 
      (3)   The area of an attached or suspended sign where the letters,
numerals or symbols are on a sign surface which is hung or affixed to a
structure shall be the total area of the hung or affixed surfaces. For signs
that contain multiple frames on a single structure and oriented in the same
direction, the sign area shall be determined on the basis of the sum of the
areas of each surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1695.jpg]
 
      (4)   Freestanding signs (double-faced or back-to-back signs): when the
faces of a back-to-back sign are parallel or within 35 degrees of parallel, the
sign face area shall be determined on the basis of only one side of such sign.
If the sign faces are not within 35 degrees of parallel, the sign face area
shall be determined on the basis of the sum of the areas of each sign face.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.jpg]
 
      (5)   Individual element and three-dimensional signs: when signs are
constructed of individual elements attached to a building or wall, or for any
three-dimensional sign), the area shall be determined by calculating the area
of an imaginary rectangle drawn around the sign elements (the smallest
rectangle which encloses all of the letters, symbols and characters as seen
from one side).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.jpg]
 
      (6)   For signs that are required to meet a certain percentage of wall
facade or other background area, the height of the surface area multiplied by
the width of the surface area, multiplied by the percentage requirement will be
used to determine size of signage allowed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.jpg]
 
   (B)   Freestanding sign locations. Setbacks for freestanding signs are
measured from the property boundary which may also be the road right-of-way.
   (C)   Sight visibility triangle.
      (1)   No sign taller than 42 inches or with less clearance than eight
feet tall may be placed in the sight triangle of any street or driveway
intersection.
      (2)   The site triangle is measured from the corner of pavement where two
streets meet, back 25 feet to form the triangle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.jpg]
 
   (D)   Sign heights.
      (1)   The height of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest attached component
of the sign.
      (2)   The clearance of a sign shall be computed as the distance from the
base of the sign at normal grade to that portion of the sign hanging or mounted
lowest to the ground
      (3)   (a)   Normal grade shall be construed to be the level of existing
grade prior to sign installation.
         (b)   When filling to match existing grade levels is done, the
finished grade shall be considered normal. When berming or mounding, solely for
the purpose of locating the sign, the pre-existing grade shall be considered
normal.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.gif][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 310.09) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.25 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Signs may be lit consistent with the following standards when allowed
in each district. Types of lighting are further described in §
153.02 of this chapter.
   (B)   Monument signs that are less than eight feet in height and wall signs
may be lighted with ground-mounted lights; provided, the lights are fully
shielded and mounted as close to the sign or wall base as possible.
   (C)   Prohibited lighting for signs:
      (1)   Lighting that could be confused for a traffic-control device; and
      (2)   Searchlights, beacons and laser source light fixtures, except when
approved as a temporary short-term signage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 310.10)
§ 153.26 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   It is not the intent of this section to allow the display of temporary
signage as a means to circumvent the sign regulations for the district in which
the property is located, but rather to allow a full spectrum of options to meet
different signage needs.
   (B)   Following are three types of temporary signs that are allowed and the
conditions for each. Additional conditions and approval process are contained
in each districts regulations.
      (1)   “Short-term temporary signs” (intended for one time sales events,
special events and the like).
         (a)   Short-term temporary signs are allowed for up to 14 consecutive
days for up to four times each year per each property.
         (b)   Unless otherwise specified in the districts standards, only one
short-term temporary sign is allowed per property or parcel at any given time.
If more than one is allowed, each sign placed constitutes a separate sign for
the purpose of time allowed for display (i.e., two signs two times a year, or
four signs one time a year).
         (c)   Time limits may be run concurrently, but may not be split up
(e.g., cannot split one 14-day period into two separate seven-day periods).
         (d)   Maximum size is one square foot per each lineal foot of frontage
or the maximum size for the type of sign for the district it will be located,
whichever is smaller.
         (e)   Short-term temporary signs are allowed in excess of and in
addition to the sign limitations within each district, regardless of the status
of conformity of all other permanent on-premises signs.
         (f)   See district standards for additional requirements.
      (2)   “Interim temporary signs” (business start up or short-term
ventures).
         (a)   All interim temporary signs must meet the districts sign
standards (e.g., maximum amount, size, locations and setbacks of signs and the
like).
         (b)   Allowed for up to 60 days in a calendar year per parcel or
address or for a newly established business on each parcel or address.
      (3)   “Changeable temporary signs” (temporary exhibits, daily, weekly or
monthly specials, annual seasonal events and the like).
         (a)   All changeable signs must meet the districts sign standards
(e.g., allowed sign type, maximum amounts, maximum size, locations and setbacks
of signs and the like).
         (b)   Location (placement) and size of sign must remain consistent.
Brackets or other mounting structure may be utilized, but must not be relocated
without a new permit being issued. Portable signs must be placed in the
approved location authorized on the sign permit (if indicated).
         (c)   Only the message and design of the sign may be altered through
the use of new sign face, changeable letters or similar methods.
(Prior Code, § 310.11) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.27 SUBSTITUTION OF NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH AND CONTENT NEUTRALITY.
   In any district, for every type of sign that is allowed for commercial
speech, any non-commercial message may be legally substituted when all other
requirements (e.g., size, location, design review, required permits issued) are
met.
(Prior Code, § 310.12)
§ 153.28 SIGNS IN ROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Right-of-way jurisdictions (state, county or city) will determine type
and placement of signage allowed in their rights-of-way. Property and sign
owners are responsible to verify that signs are located outside of the right-
of-way or appropriate approvals have been secured.
   (B)   Other than public regulatory, warning, directional and traffic guide
signs erected by a government entity, the city allows portable signs only in
city controlled rights-of-way (local city streets) which meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   Sign is placed by or with approval of the property owner of the
parcel adjacent to the right-of-way;
      (2)   Necessary permits or approvals with standards as defined for the
particular district have been procured by the property owner;
      (3)   Quantity, size and other sign requirements are based on
requirements for portable signs as indicated in each district; and
      (4)   No sign may be placed in such a way as to obstruct vehicle,
pedestrian or bicycle routes, interchanges or crossing sightlines. Signs which
are deemed an obstruction will be removed or re-located by city staff.
(Prior Code, § 310.13) Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.29 SIGNS ON CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Locations.
      (1)   Veterans Park and Heritage Park are traditional public forums on
city property and, therefore, will be available for the placement of portable
signage only, when the proposed signage meets the standards in division (B)
below.
      (2)   Any signage proposed for other city property must be approved by
city administration.
   (B)   Signage allowed.
      (1)   Along with permanent city park identification signage (e.g., park
signs), the city will allow portable temporary signage for civic, non-profit or
charitable events and non-commercial speech. Limited commercial speech signage
will be allowed only at the city athletic field. All signage will be on a first
come first serve basis.
      (2)   (a)   Location, type and design of signage allowed is dictated by
the standards of the district for each property along with those requirements
listed below (in division (B)(4) below). The maximum quantity of signage
allowed (total number of signs allowed) is hereby exempt for these permitted
signs.
         (b)   All temporary commercial speech signage at the city athletic
field will be designed and subcontracted by the city at the expense of the
applicant. Customized commercial logos and text can be incorporated into city
approved temporary signs.
      (3)   A staff issued written approval is required for the placement of
any sign on these city-owned properties. An application for approval including
information on the size, type, anchoring method and location of the proposed
sign is required.
      (4)   Signage requirements.
         (a)   The total number of signs on public property will not be limited
to zoning district sign standards.
         (b)   Each sign must include a legible posting date.
         (c)   The sign and attaching material must be removed within 45 days
of the posting date or if the sign is posted for an event no longer than ten
days after the event. Commercial signage at the Athletic Field will not be
required to be removed with 45 days.
         (d)   All signs shall be constructed or anchored to prevent movement
of the sign by the wind; except that, an anchoring shall not be permanent and
shall not damage the property on which the sign is placed.
         (e)   No sign shall be attached to, or leaned against, any street
furniture, utility facility (including poles and boxes), street light,
building, fence, tree, statuary, playground/park amenity or any other present
sign.
         (f)   No sign shall be placed in such a manner as to reduce the
unobstructed path of travel on any sidewalk or path to less than 36 inches, and
if the existing unobstructed path of travel of a sidewalk is 36 inches or less,
no sign shall be placed on that sidewalk.
         (g)   No sign shall be placed within a curb cut or ramp installed to
provide improved access to a sidewalk to the disabled.
   (C)   Downtown lamp post banners. Additionally, signage will be allowed in
the form of banners which fit city brackets on the city owned (Victorian style)
lampposts in the downtown. These must meet historic design guidelines and
approval must be received from the Heritage Preservation Commission. Approved
banners will be placed by the city’s Street Department.
(Prior Code, § 310.14) (Ord. passed 4-2-2024) Penalty, see § 153.99
REGULATIONS BY DISTRICT
§ 153.40 GENERAL.
   Only those sign types specifically listed in each district are allowed
unless a variance is issued. Variances for sign type will only be considered
for those types that are not specifically listed as prohibited in that
district.
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.41 RESIDENTIAL CONSERVANCY.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Maximum total amount of signage: two square feet per each lineal
foot of public frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: five feet and meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Signs prohibited:
         (a)   Off-premises signs; and
         (b)   Dynamic, digital and electronic message center signs.
      (4)   Lighting allowed:
         (a)   Exterior/direct lit or back lit/halo;
         (b)   Internal lit where message or logo only is lit (e.g., a back lit
cut out); and
         (c)   Neon or LED lit message or image up to ten square feet (either a
lit sign in its entirety or lit portion of sign).
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed     Permit Required         Sign Standards and
                                                   Regulations
Banner/commercial flag                             All standards: same as for
(permanent)                Yes                     sign types listed above
                                                   (wall, pylon and the like)
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per lot
                                                   or parcel
Changeable copy sign or    Yes                     Maximum size: same as for
panel                                              sign types listed above
                                                   (wall, pylon, monument and
                                                   the like)
                                                   Maximum size: 32 square
                                                   feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
Freestanding monument                              public frontage or 1 per
signs (only with a CUP/IUP Yes                     entry (road, trail or
or approved as part of a                           waterway) into a
subdivision)                                       neighborhood or subdivision
                                                   when approved as part of a
                                                   plat
                                                   Maximum height: 8 feet
                                                   Maximum size without a CUP/
                                                   IUP: 20 square feet
                                                   Maximum size with a CUP/
Freestanding post sign     Yes                     IUP: 100 square feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per every
                                                   20 lineal feet of public
                                                   frontage
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage
                                                   Maximum size without a CUP/
Freestanding pylon signs   Yes                     IUP: 20 square feet
                                                   Maximum size with a CUP/
                                                   IUP: 100 square feet
                                                   Maximum height of 25 feet
                                                   Maximum size: 9 square feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per every
                           No permit or staff      20 lineal feet of public
Freestanding yard sign     approval required       frontage, but no more than
                                                   3 signs per lot or property
                                                   No lighting is allowed for
                                                   yard signs
                                                   Maximum size for
                                                   freestanding: up to 25
                                                   square feet size
Short-term and interim,    Staff approval only (no Maximum height
temporary signs (including permit fee required)    (freestanding signs): 8
portable signs)                                    feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage and 2 total
                                                   per lot or parcel
                                                   Maximum number: 2 per
                                                   public frontage
Wall/attached signs        Yes                     Limited to 25% coverage of
                                                   wall facade where the sign
                                                   is placed
                                                   Window signs are not
                           No permit or staff      regulated in this district
Window sign                approval required       Window signs are not
                                                   included in the total
                                                   amount of signage allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.42 RURAL RESIDENTIAL/LIMITED AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: two square feet per
each lineal foot of public frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: five feet and meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Signs prohibited:
         (a)   Internally lit cabinet signs;
         (b)   Off-premises signs; and
         (c)   Dynamic, digital and electronic message center signs.
      (4)   Lighting: direct illumination or back lit only (no internal
illuminated cabinet signs).
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed     Permit Required         Sign Standards and
                                                   Regulations
Banner/commercial flag                             All standards: same as for
(permanent)                Yes                     sign types listed above
                                                   (wall, pylon and the like)
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per lot
                                                   or parcel
Changeable copy sign or    Yes                     Maximum size: same as for
panel                                              sign types listed above
                                                   (wall, pylon, monument and
                                                   the like)
                                                   Maximum of 1 per public
                                                   frontage
                                                   Maximum of 1 per entry
Freestanding monument                              (road, trail or waterway)
signs (only allowed with a Yes                     into a neighborhood or
CUP, IUP or approved as                            subdivision when approved
part of a subdivision)                             as part of a plat
                                                   Maximum size of 64 square
                                                   feet
                                                   Maximum height: 8 feet
                                                   Maximum size without a CUP/
                                                   IUP: 20 square feet
                                                   Maximum size with a CUP/
Freestanding post sign     Yes                     IUP: 100 square feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per every
                                                   20 lineal feet of public
                                                   frontage
                                                   Maximum of 1 per public
                                                   frontage (street or other
                                                   public thoroughfare)
Freestanding pylon/pole                            Maximum size 64 square feet
signs                      Yes                     Maximum size without a CUP/
                                                   IUP: 100 square feet
                                                   Maximum size with a CUP/
                                                   IUP: 200 square feet
                                                   Maximum height of 25 feet
                                                   A maximum of 1 sign per
                                                   each 20 lineal foot of
Freestanding yard sign     No permit or staff      frontage
                           approval required       Maximum size 6 square feet
                                                   No lighting is allowed for
                                                   yard signs
                                                   Maximum size for
                                                   freestanding: up to 25
                                                   square feet size
Short-term and interim,    Staff approval only (no Maximum height
temporary signs (including permit fee required)    (freestanding signs: 8
portable signs)                                    feet)
                                                   Maximum of 1 per public
                                                   frontage and 2 total per
                                                   lot or parcel
                                                   Limited to 25% coverage of
                                                   the wall facade where the
Wall/attached signs        Yes                     sign is placed
                                                   Maximum number: 2 per
                                                   public frontage
                                                   Window signs are not
                           No permit or staff      regulated in this district
Window sign                approval required       Window signs are not
                                                   included in the total
                                                   amount of signage allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.43 RURAL RESIDENTIAL GROWTH/TRANSITIONAL.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: two square feet per
each lineal foot of public frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: five feet and meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Signs prohibited:
         (a)   Off-premises signs; and
         (b)   Dynamic, digital and electronic message center signs.
      (4)   Lighting allowed: all lighting as mentioned in the definitions
section of this chapter are allowed unless otherwise indicated for each type of
sign, except for “up-lighting”. (All sign lighting must be shielded to at least
90 degrees at the top.)
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed     Permit Required         Sign Standards and
                                                   Regulations
Banner/commercial flag                             All standards: same as for
(permanent)                Yes                     sign types listed above
                                                   (wall, pylon and the like)
                                                   No lighting is allowed for
                                                   yard signs
                                                   Only allowed as part of a
                                                   pylon, post, attached wall
Changeable copy panel non-                         or freestanding monument
digital (permanent)        Yes                     sign (unless temporary)
                                                   Maximum size: 50% of the
                                                   area of the entire sign
                                                   (which it is part of)
                                                   No internal illumination
                                                   allowed
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage or 1 per
                                                   entry (road, trail or
Freestanding monument                              waterway) into a
signs (only allowed with a Yes                     neighborhood or subdivision
CUP/IUP or when approved                           when approved as part of a
as part of a subdivision)                          plat
                                                   Maximum size: 64 square
                                                   feet
                                                   Maximum height: 8 feet
                                                   Maximum number: 5 per lot
Freestanding post signs    Yes                     or parcel
                                                   Maximum size: 64 square
                                                   feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage
Freestanding pylon/pole                            Maximum size without a CUP/
signs                      Yes                     IUP: 20 square feet
                                                   Maximum size with a CUP/
                                                   IUP: 100 square feet
                                                   Maximum height of 25 feet
                                                   Up to 6 square feet in size
                                                   A maximum of 1 sign per
Freestanding yard sign     No permit or staff      each 20 lineal foot of
                           approval required       frontage
                                                   A maximum total of 3 signs
                                                   per lot or property
                                                   Maximum size for
                                                   freestanding: up to 25
                                                   square feet size
Short-term and interim,    Staff approval only (no Maximum height
temporary signs (including permit fee required)    (freestanding signs): 8
portable signs)                                    feet
                                                   Maximum of 1 per public
                                                   frontage and 2 total per
                                                   lot or parcel
Wall/attached signs (only                          Limited to 25% of the wall
allowed with a CUP/IUP)    Yes                     facade where the sign is
                                                   placed
                                                   Window signs are not
                           No permit or staff      regulated in this district
Window sign                approval required       Window signs are not
                                                   included in the total
                                                   amount of signage allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.44 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS (R-1, R-2 AND R-3).
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: 32 square feet per
lot without a CUP/IUP or up to one square foot of signage per each lineal foot
of frontage with a CUP/IUP per lot;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: five feet and meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Signs prohibited: dynamic signs;
      (4)   Lighting allowed:
         (a)   Direct lit;
         (b)   A maximum of one lit sign per public frontage; and
         (c)   Back lit, electronic message boards and internal lit cabinet
signs with a CUP or IUP.
      (5)   Off-premises signs: only allowed as temporary signage (see short-
term and interim, temporary signs below).
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed     Permit Required         Sign Standards and
                                                   Regulations
                                                   Maximum size: 10% of the
                                                   building facade on which it
                                                   is placed
                                                   Letters or images may not
Awning sign                Yes                     exceed 75% of the height of
                                                   the awning panel on which
                                                   the sign copy is placed
                                                   Minimum height clearance: 8
                                                   feet
                                                   Only allowed as part of a
                                                   pylon/pole, attached wall
Changeable copy panel                              or freestanding monument
permanent - non-digital                            sign
(only allowed with a CUP/  Yes                     Maximum size: 50% of the
IUP unless part of an                              area of the entire sign
allowed temporary sign)                            (which it is part of)
                                                   No internal illumination
                                                   allowed
                                                   Minimum lot size: 2 acres
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   frontage and no more than 2
                                                   per property
                                                   Maximum size: 32 square
Electronic message center                          feet (for electric message
(only allowed with a CUP   Yes                     portion of sign)
or IUP)                                            Minimum duration of sign
                                                   message: 1 minute
                                                   Maximum number of colors:
                                                   1; no blinking, flashing or
                                                   illusion of movement
                                                   (except scrolling of
                                                   message)
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage or 1 per
Freestanding monument                              entry (road, trail or
signs (only allowed with a                         waterway) into a
CUP or IUP or when         Yes                     neighborhood or subdivision
approved as part of a                              when approved as part of a
subdivision)                                       plat
                                                   Maximum size: 32 square
                                                   feet
                                                   Maximum height: 8 feet
Freestanding post signs    Yes                     Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
Freestanding pylon/pole                            public frontage
signs (only allowed with a Yes                     Maximum size: 32 square
CUP or IUP)                                        feet
                                                   Maximum height of 25 feet
                                                   Maximum size: 16 square
                                                   feet
                                                   Maximum number: 1 sign per
                                                   each 20 lineal feet of
Freestanding yard sign     No permit or staff      frontage
                           approval required       Maximum size: 6 square feet
                                                   A maximum total of 3 signs
                                                   per lot or property
                                                   No lighting is allowed for
                                                   yard signs
                                                   Maximum number: 1 per
                                                   public frontage and 2 total
Short-term and interim,                            per lot or parcel
temporary signs (including Staff approval only (no Maximum size for
portable signs)            permit fee required)    freestanding: up to 25
                                                   square feet size
                                                   Maximum height
                                                   (freestanding): 8 feet
Wall/attached signs (only                          Maximum size: 10% of the
allowed with a CUP or IUP) Yes                     building facade on which it
                                                   is placed
                                                   Window signs are not
                                                   regulated in this district
Window sign                No permit or staff      Window signs are not
                           approval required       included in the required
                                                   total amount of signage
                                                   allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.45 TRADITIONAL DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL.
   All signs in the Historic District must meet requirements of §
153.44 of this chapter and must be approved through a design review with the
Heritage Preservation Commission.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: two square feet of
signage per each lineal foot of public frontage for each public frontage with a
maximum of 125 square feet per each frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: none, but must meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure; (See
also §
153.28 of this chapter.)
      (3)   Signs prohibited:
         (a)   Dynamic signs and electronic message board;
         (b)   Internal lit cabinet signs;
         (c)   Internal lit channel/can letters;
         (d)   Lighting on portable and yard signs; and
         (e)   Roof signs.
      (4)   Lighting allowed:
         (a)   Exterior/direct lit;
         (b)   Neon (limited, see below);
         (c)   Internal lit 3-D signs;
         (d)   LED (limited, see below);
         (e)   Back lit/halo; and
         (f)   Edge lit.
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of     Permit
Signs        Required   Sign Standards and Regulations
Allowed
                        Letters or images may not exceed 75% of the height of the awning panel on which
Awning sign  Yes        the sign copy is placed
                        Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
Banner/
commercial   Yes        Maximum size: 30 square feet
flag
(permanent)
Changeable              Maximum number: 1 per lot or parcel
copy panel
or sign      Yes        Maximum size: 32 square feet
(non-
digital)
             Yes
             (permit
             required
Changeable   for
temporary    initial    Must meet the standards of sign types as stated above (e.g., changeable wall
signs        sign. See  freestanding or banner sign)
             also
             Historic
             District
             standards)
Freestanding            Maximum number: 1 per public frontage
monument     Yes        Maximum size: 10 square feet
signs                   Maximum height: 6 feet
Freestanding Yes        Maximum number: 1 per public frontage
post signs              Maximum size: 15 square feet
                        Maximum number: 1 per public frontage
Freestanding Yes        Maximum size: 10 square feet
pylon signs             Maximum height of 25 feet or no higher than the tallest structure located on the
                        property, whichever is shorter
Freestanding            Maximum number: 1 per business, but no more than 1 per each 10 feet of public
sidewalk                frontage
signs                   Maximum size: 10 square feet
(displayed   Yes        Maximum height: 6 feet
on a                    Maximum width: 3 feet
permanent               All portable signs must be placed to allow a minimum of 4-foot wide traversable
basis)                  path on any sidewalk or public pedestrian area
             No permit
Freestanding or staff   Maximum number: 1 per public frontage
yard signs   approval
             required
             Staff
Interim      approval   Must meet the standards of sign types as stated above (e.g., changeable wall
temporary    only (no   freestanding or banner sign) including size, location, height and maximum amount
signs        permit fee
             required)
                        Maximum size: 10 square feet (entire sign or that portion of the sign with
Neon or LED  Yes        lighting)
                        Must meet the location, height and clearance standards of sign types as stated
                        (e.g., wall, post, sidewalk or banner sign)
Off-premises            Maximum number: 2 per parcel or address
advertising  Yes        Maximum amount: 50% of signage allotted for property
signs                   Must be within a minimum distance of 1,500 feet from the business it advertises
Projecting              Maximum of 1 per business per public frontage, or 1 per 10 feet of frontage,
signs                   whichever is less
(including              Maximum size of 7.5 square feet
banners                 Maximum height: the top of the sign shall not extend above the top of the
displayed    Yes        adjacent roofline
permanently             Minimum clearance height: 8 feet
and attached
as                      Maximum extension from wall: 5 feet
projecting
signs)
             Staff      Maximum number: 1 per lot or parcel
Short-term   approval
temporary    only (no   Must meet the size, location, height and clearance standards of sign types as
signs        permit fee stated above (e.g., wall, post, sidewalk or banner sign)
             required)
                        Maximum of 1 per business per public frontage, or 1 per each 5 feet of public
Suspended               frontage, whichever is less
signs        Yes        Maximum height: 12 feet
                        Minimum clearance height: 8 feet
                        Maximum size: 7.5 square feet
Wall/
attached
signs
(including              Maximum coverage: no more than 10% of a wall facade may be covered with wall
banners      Yes        signs
displayed
permanently
attached as
wall signs)
Window sign             Maximum coverage: 15% coverage of window pane (contiguous sheet of window glass)
(including
banners
displayed    Yes        Any item not directly applied to the window (see definition of “window sign”) is
permanently             not regulated by this chapter
attached as
window
signs)
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.46 HISTORIC OVERLAY.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   The regulations of this section apply to the city’s Historic
District as described and adopted in
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances (or as amended). The Historic District was
established to recognize and preserve unique architectural character and
historic value within designated districts in the city. This section,
therefore, places limitations on the type, design, number and placement of
signs in a manner which does not conflict with the historic value and
appearances of designated Historic District(s) and the structures within those
districts.
      (2)   Under
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances, the city’s Heritage Preservation Commission
(HPC) is given authority to review proposed activity within the Historic
District and determine if the work to be performed will adversely affect the
heritage preservation landmark or district. As with other modifications
occurring in the Historic District, the HPC will review and make determination
on proposed signage based on adopted city heritage preservation guidelines and
the Secretary of Interior Standards for Historic Preservation.
   (B)   Compliance. Prior to the issuance of a sign permit for a new sign or
the replacement of an existing sign in the Historic District, the applicant
shall complete a design review application. The HPC shall review the
application and approve or deny the application. Fee for the sign permit is as
established in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances. The regulations and limitations for signage
of those properties defined within this section shall be in addition to the
sign regulations of any underlying zoning district.
   (C)   Sign construction, design and materials.
      (1)   Materials.
         (a)   Signs shall be made of materials historically appropriate to the
building, site or districts history. These include painted or enameled metal,
wood or glass, leaded, stained or etched glass, painted wall signs and fabric
awning or banner signs. The Heritage Preservation Commission may approve signs
constructed of other materials when there is a finding by the Commission that
the materials duplicate the appearance of materials historically used in sign
manufacturing. Plastic (including extruded or vacuum formed) and unfinished
wood are deemed not historically appropriate.
         (b)   Historically appropriate techniques for creating lettering and
designs generally include paint or gilding on a flat surface, individual
letters or logos cut-out and letters or designs mounted on a smooth surface
backing or directly on a building wall and also metal castings or cutouts.
      (2)   Design. Additional information on sign design may be found in the
adopted heritage preservation guidelines (“design guidelines) for the Downtown
Heritage Preservation District. HPC approval of signage will be based the
regulations contained in this chapter and in the design guidelines.
         (a)   Lettering. All letter styles shall relate to the character of
the property’s architectural elements or use. A sign shall contain no more than
two lettering styles. Lettering shall occupy no more than 60% of the sign’s
total area and capital letters shall be no more than 75% of the height of the
sign background.
         (b)   Clarity. The sign message must be legible which may be
accomplished through the use of words, pictures, names, symbols and logos.
Letters and images must be clearly defined with hard edge lines. Spraying or
airbrushing of words or images is not historically appropriate
         (c)   Color. Sign colors shall coordinate with the building facade and
be compatible with the property’s use. No more than two colors shall be used
for lettering and a small amount of a third color for highlighting for
lettering is acceptable.
         (d)   Edge frame. Wall signs require a visual boarder frame (three-
dimensional or painted) around the edge of the sign.
         (e)   Plastic channels, sliding letters. Changeable copy signs and
panels comprised of plastic channels and sliding letters are not allowed in the
Historic District.
         (f)   Awning signs. Awning signs shall be placed on the awning valance
only and shall not exceed 75% of the height of the valance.
      (3)   Construction and maintenance. All signs, together with all of their
supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be kept in good repair and in proper
state of preservation and working order. The display surfaces of all signs
shall be kept painted or maintained at all times. Faded, chipped, frayed, torn,
tattered or otherwise damaged signs shall be replaced.
      (4)   Illumination. In addition to the sign illumination standards
detailed in §
153.25 of this chapter, the following shall apply in the Historic District.
         (a)   No sign shall be illuminated by or contain flashing
intermittent, rotating or moving lights or lights creating an illusion of
movement.
         (b)   The use of internally back-lit plastic cabinet type and can
letter signs are not permitted; however, internal lit 3-D signs, back lit/halo,
edgelit and limited neon lit signs will be allowed when there is a finding by
the HPC that the sign emulates the design of signs used historically.
   (D)   Signs types. Sign types and specific standards for each type are
detailed in underlying zoning districts: TDC - Traditional Downtown Commercial
and Residential Districts.
   (E)   Location. The HPC shall consider sign location in its design review
and base its approval on location:
      (1)   Where signs were placed historically;
      (2)   Where there will be minimal damage to historic materials and
features (avoiding windows, cornices or architectural trim and other features);
      (3)   Where the location helps to draw attention to, balances with or
does not compete with the historic architectural characteristics of the
building;
      (4)   On masonry buildings, installation anchors for signs shall be
installed into the joint rather than the masonry unit (in the mortar rather
than the brick or stone):
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.jpg]
*2 State, county and city have differing regulations regarding signs in the
public right-of-way. Verification should be made by private property owners as
to the allowance of signs on their streets or other rights-of-way.
      (5)   Awning signs shall be placed on the awning valance only and shall
not exceed 75% of the height of the valance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.jpg]
 
   (F)   Signs of historic significance.
      (1)   Several signs within the Downtown Historic District are hereby
deemed to be historically significant and contributing features to the district
because of one or more of the following aspects:
         (a)   It has character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, state or the United States
(including early signage for businesses which were instrumental in the
formation or continued growth and success of the city’s businesses district);
         (b)   It is directly linked to a significant historical event which
occurred at its location;
         (c)   It is identified with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture or development of the city, state or the United
States;
         (d)   It embodies a distinguishing characteristic of an architectural
type or style or design of signage common to a historic period of Downtown
Wabasha;
         (e)   It is identified as the work of an architect or builder or sign
maker whose individual work has influenced the development of the city or
state;
         (f)   It embodies elements of design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represents significant design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which are significant to signage innovation; and
         (g)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics
represents an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood,
community or the city as a whole (50 years or more at the same location, unless
HPC finds unique and exceptional circumstances).
 Address
                                             Address
Architecturally incorporated signage including, but not limited to:
   (Old) City Hall                        257 Main Street
   IOOF                                   128 Main Street
   Masonic building                       200 Main Street
Barber pole                                  125 Pembroke Avenue (Rogers Barber
                                             Shop)
Building/builder names including, but not limited to:
   “Smith Block”                      212 Main Street
   “Jewel”                            207 Main Street
   “Kuhen Block”                      180 Main Street
“Café” painted metal with neon sign     119 Pembroke Avenue (River Town
                                             Café)
Gambles (both front and back signs)          149 Main Street
“Hotel Anderson” painted metal with neon 333 Main Street
sign
“Squirt” painted wall sign               207 Main Street (Wabasha Pharmacy)
 
      (2)   Because of their individual historic significance and/or
contribution to the character of the Historic District, these signs (and
additional signs determined by the HPC) are exempt from the requirements of
this chapter. These signs shall not be counted in the number or amount of
signage allowed for current or future property owners or businesses at these
locations.
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.47 GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: two square feet of
signage per each lineal foot of public frontage for each public frontage, with
a maximum of 125 square feet per each frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: five feet and must meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Multi-tenant signage is allowed with a CUP/IUP or when approved as
part of a plat or subdivision on parcels other than where the business being
advertised is located as long as the business advertised is located within the
same plat/subdivision as the parcel containing the sign.
         (a)   The sign must meet setback and height requirements for type of
sign (as indicated below).
         (b)   Size and amount of signage will be determined in the approval
process and will be based on the total amount of land and frontage of the
development being signed, but the size of the sign shall not be larger than
allowed per sign type (as indicated below) unless a variance is issued.
      (4)   Lighting allowed: all lighting as mentioned in the definitions
section of this chapter are allowed, except for “up-lighting”. (All sign
lighting must be shielded to at least 90 degrees at the top.)
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed     Permit Required          Sign Standards and
                                                    Regulations
                                                    Maximum size: 30% coverage
                                                    of wall facade where awning
Awning sign or canopy      Yes                      is attached
                                                    Minimum height clearance: 8
                                                    feet
Banner/commercial flag     Yes                      Maximum size: 30 square
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum number: 1 per lot
Changeable copy panel,                              or parcel
electronic message center  Yes                      Maximum size: 32 square
or dynamic sign                                     feet
                                                    Minimum duration of sign
                                                    message: 4 seconds
                                                    Must meet the standards of
                           Yes (permit required for sign types as stated (e.g.,
Changeable temporary signs initial sign)            changeable wall
                                                    freestanding or banner
                                                    sign)
                                                    Maximum number: 1 per
Freestanding monument                               public frontage
signs                      Yes                      Maximum size: 64 square
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum height: 8 feet
                                                    Maximum amount: 1 sign per
                                                    each 20 lineal foot of
                                                    frontage
Freestanding portable      No permit or staff       Maximum number: 3 signs per
sidewalk and yard signs    approval required        lot or property
                                                    Maximum size: 8 square feet
                                                    Maximum height: 8 feet
                                                    No lighting is allowed for
                                                    yard signs
Freestanding post signs    Yes                      Maximum size: 36 square
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum of 1 per public
                                                    frontage
Freestanding pylon signs   Yes                      Maximum size: 100 square
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum height of 25 feet
                                                    Must meet location, height,
                                                    clearance, size, and amount
Interim temporary signs    Staff approval only (no  standards of sign types as
                           permit required)         stated (e.g., wall,
                                                    freestanding or banner
                                                    sign)
                                                    Must meet the standards of
Neon signs                 Yes                      sign types as stated (e.g.,
                                                    wall, monument or pylon
                                                    sign)
                                                    Maximum number: 1 per
                                                    business, but no more than
                                                    1 sign per each 10 feet of
                                                    frontage
Projecting signs           Yes                      Maximum size of 7.5 square
                                                    feet
                                                    Minimum clearance height: 8
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum extension from
                                                    wall: 5 feet
                                                    Maximum of 1 per lot or
                                                    parcel
                                                    Must meet the size,
Short-term temporary signs Staff approval only (no  location, height and
                           permit required)         clearance standards of sign
                                                    types as stated above
                                                    (e.g., wall, post, sidewalk
                                                    or banner sign)
                                                    Maximum number: 1 per
                                                    business, but no more than
                                                    1 sign per each 5 feet of
                                                    public frontage
Suspended signs            Yes                      Maximum height: 12 feet
                                                    Minimum clearance height: 8
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum size: 7.5 square
                                                    feet
                                                    Maximum coverage: 25% of
Wall/attached signs        Yes                      the wall facade where the
                                                    sign is placed
                                                    Window signs are not
                           No permit or staff       regulated in this district
Window sign                approval required        Window signs are not
                                                    included in the total
                                                    amount of signage allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.48 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: two square feet of
signage per each lineal foot of public frontage, with a maximum of 200 square
feet per each frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: ten feet and must meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Multi-tenant signage: allowed with a CUP/IUP or when approved as
part of a plat or subdivision on parcels other than where the business being
advertised is located as long as the business advertised is located within the
same plat/subdivision as the parcel containing the sign.
         (a)   The sign must meet setback and height requirements for type of
sign (as indicated below).
         (b)   Size and amount of signage will be determined in the approval
process and will be based on the total amount of land and frontage of the
development being signed, but the size of the sign shall not be larger than
allowed per sign type (as indicated below) unless a variance is issued.
      (4)   Lighting allowed: all lighting as mentioned in §
153.02 of this chapter are allowed, except for “up-lighting”. (All sign
lighting must be shielded to at least 90 degrees at the top.)
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required      Sign Standards and Regulations
                                            Maximum size: 30% of wall facade
Awning or canopy sign  Yes                  where awning is attached
                                            Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
                                            Allowed only as a short-term
Balloons, inflatable,                       temporary signs
dancing wind, wind,    Staff approval only  Must meet the size, location,
air blades or wind     (no permit fee       height, clearance standards and
blade signs, dynamic   required)            amount standards of sign types as
flags, dynamic tubes                        stated (e.g., wall, freestanding or
                                            banner sign)
Banner/commercial flag Yes                  Maximum size: 40 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 30 feet
                                            Maximum number: 1 per lot or parcel
Changeable copy panel,                      Maximum size: same as for sign
electronic message     Yes                  types listed above (wall, pylon,
center or dynamic sign                      monument and the like)
                                            Minimum duration of sign message: 4
                                            seconds
                                            Must meet the standards of sign
Changeable temporary   Yes (permit required types as stated above (e.g.,
signs                  for initial sign)    changeable wall freestanding or
                                            banner sign)
                                            Maximum number: 1 per public
                                            frontage
Freestanding monument                       Maximum size:
signs                  Yes                     Without a CUP/IUP: 100 square
                                            feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 200 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 15 feet
Freestanding post      Yes                  Maximum size: 64 square feet
signs
                                            Maximum number: 1 per public
                                            frontage
Freestanding pylon                          Maximum size:
signs                  Yes                     Without a CUP/IUP: 100 square
                                            feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 200 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 30 feet
                                            Must meet the size, location,
Interim temporary      Staff approval only  height, clearance standards, and
signs                  (no permit fee       amount standards of sign types as
                       required)            stated (e.g., wall, freestanding or
                                            banner sign)
Portable sidewalk or                        Maximum number: 1 per business
yard signs 10 square   No permit or staff   Up to 10 square feet in size
feet or under          approval required    No lighting is allowed for yard
                                            signs
Portable signs over 10                      Maximum number: 1 per parcel or lot
square feet in size    Yes                  Maximum size: 64 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 8 feet
                                            Maximum size:
                                               Without a CUP/IUP: 100 square
Projecting signs       Yes                  feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 200 square feet
                                            Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
Searchlights, beacons  Staff approval only  Allowed only as a short-term
or laser source light  (no permit fee       temporary signs
fixtures               required)
                                            Maximum of 2 per lot or parcel
Short-term temporary   Staff approval only  Must meet the size, location,
signs                  (no permit fee       height and clearance standards of
                       required)            sign types as stated above (e.g.,
                                            wall, freestanding or banner sign)
                                            Maximum size:
                                               Without a CUP/IUP: 100 square
Suspended signs        Yes                  feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 200 square feet
                                            Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
                                            Maximum height:
                                               Without a CUP/IUP: 6 feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 30 feet
Three-dimensional                           Maximum size:
freestanding sign      Yes                     Without a CUP/IUP: 64 square
                                            feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 100 feet
                                            Must meet any applicable building
                                            codes
                                            Maximum wall coverage: 30% of wall
Wall/attached signs    Yes                  facade where the sign is placed or
                                            400 square feet, whichever is less
                                            Window signs are not regulated in
Window sign            No permit or staff   this district
                       approval required    Window signs are not included in
                                            the total amount of signage allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.49 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Total amount of signage allowed per lot/parcel: two square feet of
signage per each lineal foot of public frontage, with a maximum of 200 square
feet per each frontage;
      (2)   Setbacks for freestanding signs: ten feet and must meet sight
visibility triangle requirements for both sign face and sign structure;
      (3)   Multi-tenant signage allowed with a CUP/IUP or when approved as
part of a plat or subdivision on parcels other than where the business being
advertised is located as long as the business advertised is located within the
same plat/subdivision as the parcel containing the sign.
         (a)   The sign must meet setback and height requirements for type of
sign (monument, pylon and the like).
         (b)   Size and amount of signage will be determined in the approval
process and will be based on the total amount of land and frontage of the
development being signed, but the size of the sign shall not be larger than
allowed per sign type (as indicated below) unless a variance is issued.
      (4)   Lighting allowed: all lighting as mentioned in §
153.02 of this chapter is allowed, except for “up-lighting”. (All sign lighting
must be fully shielded at the top.)
   (B)   Requirements by sign type.
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required Sign Standards and Regulations
Types of Signs Allowed Permit Required      Sign Standards and Regulations
                                            Maximum coverage: 30% of wall
Awning or canopy sign  Yes                  facade where awning is attached
                                            Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
Banner/commercial flag Yes                  Maximum size: 40 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 30 feet
                                            Maximum number: 1 per lot or parcel
Changeable copy panel,                      Maximum size: same as for sign
electronic message     Yes                  types listed above (wall, pylon,
center or dynamic sign                      monument and the like)
                                            Minimum duration of sign message 4
                                            seconds
                                            Must meet the standards of sign
Changeable temporary   Yes (permit required types as stated above (e.g.,
signs                  for initial sign)    changeable wall freestanding or
                                            banner sign)
                                            Maximum number: 1 per public
                                            frontage
Freestanding monument                       Maximum size:
signs                  Yes                     Without a CUP/IUP: 100 square
                                            feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 200 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 15 feet
Freestanding portable                       Maximum number: 1 per business
sidewalk or yard signs No permit or staff   Up to 10 square feet in size
10 square feet or      approval required    No lighting is allowed for yard
under                                       signs
Freestanding post      Yes                  Maximum size: 64 square feet
signs
                                            Maximum number: 1 per public
                                            frontage
Freestanding pylon                          Maximum size:
signs                  Yes                     Without a CUP/IUP: 100 square
                                            feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 200 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 30 feet
                                            Must meet the size, location,
Interim temporary      Staff approval only  height, clearance standards and
signs                  (no permit fee       amount standards of sign types as
                       required)            stated above (e.g., wall,
                                            freestanding or banner sign)
Portable signs over 10                      Maximum number: 1 per parcel or lot
square feet in size    Yes                  Maximum size: 64 square feet
                                            Maximum height: 8 feet
Projecting signs       Yes                  Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
Short-term temporary                        Allowed only as a short-term
balloons, inflatable,                       temporary signs
dancing wind, wind,    Staff approval only  Must meet the size, location,
air blades or wind     (no permit fee       height, clearance standards and
blade signs, dynamic   required)            amount standards of sign types as
flags, dynamic tubes                        stated (e.g., wall, freestanding or
                                            banner sign)
Short-term temporary   Staff approval only
searchlights, beacons  (no permit fee       Allowed only as a short-term
or laser source light  required)            temporary signs
fixtures
                                            Maximum of 2 per lot or parcel
Short-term temporary   Staff approval only  Must meet the size, location,
signs                  (no permit fee       height and clearance standards of
                       required)            sign types as stated above (e.g.,
                                            wall, freestanding or banner sign)
Suspended signs        Yes                  Minimum height clearance: 8 feet
                                            Maximum height:
                                               Without a CUP/IUP: 6 feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 30 feet
Three-dimensional                           Maximum size:
freestanding sign      Yes                     Without a CUP/IUP: 64 square
                                            feet
                                               With a CUP/IUP: 100 feet
                                            Must meet any applicable building
                                            codes
                                            Maximum coverage: 30% of wall
Wall/attached signs    Yes                  facade where the sign is placed or
                                            200 square feet, whichever is less
                                            Window signs are not regulated in
Window sign            No permit or staff   this district
                       approval required    Window signs are not included in
                                            the total amount of signage allowed
 
(Prior Code, § 310.15)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter by an owner, occupant or any
other person constitutes a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not more than $700
or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both. Each day a violation exists
constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 310.04)
CHAPTER 154: TOWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Purpose and intent
   
154.02   Applicability; federal and state requirements
   
154.03   Application and review process
   
154.04   Definitions
Zoning Districts; Performance Standards; Dimensional Requirements
   
154.15   All towers
   
154.16   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
154.17   Communication antenna towers
   
154.18   Variances
 
   
154.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The natural and scenic landscape of the city is among its most
valuable assets and greatly benefits the residents and a significant number of
visitors to the area each year. The degradation of this asset would potentially
risk undermining the very characteristics responsible for economic vitality and
future potential. The city understands and accepts the increasing demand and
need for wireless communication and environmentally responsible energy
technologies as well as other such potential activities that would require the
use of tower facilities. The purpose of this chapter is to protect and preserve
the city’s natural, cultural and scenic assets in accordance with goals and
policies of the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   This chapter is designed and intended to balance the interests of the
residents of the city, telecommunication, other service providers and customers
in the siting of towers (including wireless communication services facilities
and small wind energy conversion systems) within the city. These standards are
also intended:
      (1)   To avoid or minimize any adverse impact of the facilities on:
visual; environmental; historically significant areas; health and safety; and
property values;
      (2)   To require the use of alternative structures for the purposes of
co-location of carriers and minimize the total number of towers located within
the city;
      (3)   To allow the construction of new towers only where all other
opportunities have been exhausted;
      (4)   To require the users of communication towers and antenna structures
to configure them in a way that minimizes the need for additional towers in the
city;
      (5)   To provide for the removal of towers and associated development
which are no longer being used for their original purposes; and
      (6)   These regulations are not intended to place any restrictions on
privately operated and licensed amateur radio operators, satellite dishes or
radio and television broadcast facilities as allowed under federal regulations
and exempt from local controls.
(Prior Code, § 335.01) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.02 APPLICABILITY; FEDERAL AND STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Telecommunication Act of 1996 affirms local government’s right to
control the siting, construction and modification of cellular and other
wireless telecommunication facilities. The permitting process in this chapter
does not discriminate among providers of functionally-equivalent services and
does not prohibit the provision of personal wireless services.
   (B)   Towers erected for the use of federally licensed amateur radio
operators may be erected at heights and dimensions sufficient to accommodate
amateur service communications as required and allowed by the Telecommunication
Act of 1996 or as amended.
   (C)   (1)   M.S. Ch. 216F, as it may be amended from time to time, governs
the permitting and location of wind energy conversion systems and allows local
jurisdictions to establish requirements for the siting and construction of
SWECS.
      (2)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to govern LWECS which are
governed by the Public Utilities Commission under M.S. Ch. 216F, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 335.02) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.03 APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   CUP application for towers shall follow the same procedure as outlined
in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances. Along with items listed in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances, the following shall be provided as part of
the CUP application:
      (1)   A narrative outlining the type of tower, life expectancy of the
tower, proposed structures, noise, radio frequency or other types of
anticipated emissions and other pertinent information to explain the request in
detail;
      (2)   Documentation that the proposed tower complies with regulations of
FCC and FAA including a copy of the National Environmental Protection Act,
being 42 U.S.C. §§ 4321 et seq. study required by the Federal Communication
Commission. No antenna shall be installed on any tower facility until a Federal
Communication Commission license is issued for that antenna;
      (3)   Existing conditions map drawn to a scale that shows all pertinent
information including:
         (a)   Contour lines at ten-foot intervals;
         (b)   Existing vegetation;
         (c)   Existing drainage and permanent water features;
         (d)   Existing structures;
         (e)   Existing access; and
         (f)   All above existing conditions within 350 feet of the property
line.
      (4)   Proposed map/site plan drawn to scale that shows all pertinent
information including:
         (a)   Location of tower, structures, lighting, landscaping, signage
and other elements to be constructed;
         (b)   Location of fence and gate;
         (c)   Location of proposed driveway and parking areas; and
         (d)   Any proposed changes to land forms including topography
vegetation and drainage.
      (5)   Documentation of search area providing evidence of the lack of
antenna space on existing towers and alternative tower structures, and the
location of those facilities which were considered, demonstrating that they
cannot provide adequate communication service utilizing such existing towers or
structures;
      (6)   Proposed structure report and/or design plans from a registered
engineer licensed by the state including:
         (a)   A description of the towers capacity including the number and
type of antennas that it could accommodate or the nameplate capacity in
kilowatts for a WECS;
         (b)   A description of the proposed tower height and design including
an illustration of cross- section and elevation;
         (c)   Documentation of the proposed height above grade for the tower
structure, proposed antenna or WECS blade heights and locations and (for
communication towers) the potential mounting positions for co-located antennas
with the minimum separation distances between antennas;
         (d)   Documentation that the proposed tower complies with structural
and electrical standards;
         (e)   Documentation as to the steps to be taken to avoid interference
with established public safety communication systems;
         (f)   Engineer’s stamp and registration number; and
         (g)   Other information required by the Planning Department to
evaluate the request.
      (7)   For communication towers, a letter of intent from the tower owner
committing the tower owner and its successors to allow the shared use of the
tower to meet collocation requirements; and
      (8)   With approval of the Planning Department, flexibility on required
map submittals may be granted for scale and existing feature requirements on
lots that are deemed of a size or configuration where the above guidelines do
not provide the information required for adequate review.
   (B)   All new towers and/or accessory buildings or structures require a
building permit as required in the state’s Building Code or
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Any antenna co-locations or modifications or additions to existing
towers shall be required to submit documentation that has been prepared and
certified by a registered engineer licensed by the state, which must be
reviewed and approved by the City Engineer and/or Building Official.
   (D)   The city may choose to consult with outside agencies and/or
consultants to determine if the application meets the requirements of this
chapter, state and federal laws. Any charges of fees resulting from the
consultation will be the responsibility of the applicant for payment.
(Prior Code, § 335.04) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURES. Existing structures which provide height for
communication antennas in a manner that camouflages or conceals the presence of
antennas or towers, also referred by the industry as “stealth”, including
steeples, mills, light poles, water towers and the like.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
radiating electromagnetic waves including, but not limited to, directional
antennas such as panels, microwave dishes, satellite dishes and omni-
directional antennas such as whip antennas.
   CO-LOCATION. The placement of wireless telecommunication antenna by two or
more service providers on a tower, building or structure.
   COMMERCIAL MOBILE SERVICES. Defined in § 332 of the Communications Act and
the FCC’s rules, and include cellular telephone services regulated under part
22 of the FCC’s rules, SMR services regulated under part 90 of the FCC’s rules,
and PCS regulated under part 24 of the FCC’s rules (47 C.F.R. § 20.9).
   COMMERCIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. Any WECS designed and operated at
a capacity greater than incidental excess of the amount needed for basic
residential use and/or the purpose of such energy generation is intended for
commercial sale.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   COMMUNICATION TOWERS (COMMUNICATION ANTENNA TOWERS). Any tower structure
used for the purpose of providing transmission of cell phone, radio or other
personal wireless facilities.
   DEPARTMENT. Wabasha Planning Department, which includes the City Planner,
Zoning Administrator and other staff which are assigned to the Department and
which is overseen by the City Clerk.
   EXPERIMENTAL AND HOMEBUILT WECS. Wind machines that are one of a kind, first
attempt machines built by a wind power company or individual.
   GUYED TOWER. A tower that is supported, in whole or in part, by wires and
ground anchors.
   LARGE WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or LWECS. Any combination of WECS with a
combined nameplate capacity of 5,000 kilowatts or more which require state
permitting only (not local) under Public Utilities Commission under M.S. Ch.
216F, as it may be amended from time to time, unless amended to allow local
control.
   LATTICE TOWER. A freestanding tower with more than one leg connected to the
ground with sides interconnected by lattice braces.
   LOWEST EXTENSION OF WECS BLADES. The lowest point of the arc created by the
rotation of the WECS rotor.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER (MET TOWER). Includes the tower, base plate, anchors,
guy cables and hardware, anemometers (wind tower) speed indicators, wind
direction vanes, booms to hold equipment anemometers and vanes, data logger,
instrument wiring and any telemetry devices that are used to monitor transmit
wind speed and wind flow characteristics over a period of time for either
instantaneous wind information or to characterize the wind resource at a given
location.
   MONOPOLE. A type of tower mount that is self supporting through a single
shaft usually constructed of wood, metal or concrete.
   OWNER. The individual or entity that intends to own and operate the tower
system in accordance with this chapter.
   PERSONAL WIRELESS FACILITIES. Transmitters, antenna structures and other
types of installations used for the provision of personal wireless services.
This includes commercial mobile services, unlicensed wireless services and
common carrier wireless exchange access services (1996 Telecom Act, or as
amended).
   PRODUCTION PHASE WECS. Professionally designed wind machines that are built
in significant numbers on a continuing basis after testing. Wind machines made
from professionally designed kits will be considered PRODUCTION PHASE WECS.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Persons, corporations or governments supplying gas,
electric, transportation, water, sewer or land line telephone service to the
general public. For the purpose of this chapter, commercial wireless
telecommunication service facilities shall not be considered PUBLIC UTILITY
uses and are defined separately.
   ROTOR DIAMETER. The cross-sectional dimension of the circle swept by the
rotating blades.
   SEARCH RING. An area in which a wireless provider is able to locate an
antenna of a defined height which will provide the wireless service provider’s
desired coverage.
   SMALL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM or SWECS. Any combination of WECS with a
combined nameplate capacity of less than 5,000 kilowatts.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. The distance between the ground level at the base of a
structure and its tallest vertical extension including any attachment thereon
(to the tip of a wind generator blade when the tip is at its highest point).
   TOWER. Any pole, wire, structure or combination thereof of 30 feet or
higher, including support lines, cables, wires, braces and masts intended
primarily for the purpose of mounting antenna or to serve as an antenna or for
the placement of a wind energy conversion system. This includes communication
antenna towers.
   TOWER FACILITY(IES). A tower and its appurtenant devices including, but not
limited to, antennas, buildings, fences, gates and related equipment.
   UNLICENSED WIRELESS SERVICES. The offering of telecommunications services
using duly authorized devices which do not require individual licenses; direct-
to-home satellite services are excluded from this definition.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). Any device such as a wind charger,
windmill or wind turbine, which converts wind energy to a form of usable
energy.
   WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. Equipment that converts and then stores or transfers
energy from the wind into usable forms of any base, blade, foundation,
generator, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, vane, wire, inverter, batteries
or other component used in the system.
   WIND GENERATOR. Blades and associated mechanical and electrical conversion
components mounted on top of the tower.
(Prior Code, § 335.06) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
ZONING DISTRICTS; PERFORMANCE STANDARDS; DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.15 ALL TOWERS.
   (A)   General. New towers shall be allowed in zoning districts as provided
for in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances with the issuance of a conditional use
permit.
   (B)   Aesthetics, landscaping and buffers.
      (1)   Towers and antennas shall have a neutral finish or be painted an
approved neutral color to reduce visual impact.
      (2)   Towers shall not be artificially lighted, except as required by
FCC, FAA or other state or federal laws.
      (3)   Road access to towers shall be the minimum size necessary to allow
safe access for the proposed specific use and maintenance needs in a non-linear
manner so as not to provide a direct view corridor to the support structures.
      (4)   All signs, other than the manufacturer’s or installer’s
identification, appropriate warning signs or owner identification on a wind
generator, tower, building or other structure associated with the tower shall
be prohibited.
      (5)   All towers shall maintain the required setbacks as undisturbed
vegetated buffers, except for the access road. The size and quantity of
plantings shall be subject to Planning Commission/Planning Department approval
to enhance the quality and effectiveness of the buffer area to serve as a
visual screen.
      (6)   The base of a tower may not be located in wetland, floodplain or
shoreland overlay zones.
   (C)   Access and security.
      (1)   A security fence, to be approved by the Planning Commission/
Planning Department, of not fewer than eight feet in height from the finished
grade shall be provided around the tower. Fences shall be painted an approved
neutral color to minimize visual impacts. Access to the tower shall be through
a gate that can be secured.
      (2)   All ground-mounted electrical and control equipment shall be
labeled or secured to prevent unauthorized access. The tower shall be designed
and installed so as to not provide step bolts or a ladder readily accessible to
the public for a minimum height of eight feet above the ground.
      (3)   All electrical wires shall be located underground where possible.
      (4)   All towers shall comply with all applicable state construction and
electrical codes and the National Electrical Code.
      (5)   All tower facilities shall be maintained in a safe and clean
condition. The tower facility owner shall be responsible for maintaining a
graffiti-, debris- and litter-free site. The landscape plan shall be maintained
for the life of the tower facility. If the facility is not maintained, the city
may bring legal action. The city’s remedies may include, after 60 days’ notice
to the owner or operators, an order allowing the city to complete the
maintenance at the cost of the owners or operators of the tower facility.
   (D)   Structures.
      (1)   The design of any buildings and related structures shall, to the
extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screenings and landscaping
that will blend the facilities with the natural setting and built environment.
      (2)   All buildings and accessory structures must meet setbacks and other
requirements of
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Height. Towers including antennas, wind blades or other attachments
shall not exceed a height of 150 feet, except for those towers expressly
satisfying all co-location requirements for four or more communication
carriers, which may be constructed to a maximum height of 199 feet.
   (F)   Setbacks. Towers shall be set back a distance equal to at least 125%
of the tower height from the lot lines, any public road right-of-way, unless
written permission is granted by the governmental entity with jurisdiction over
the road, and any overhead utility lines, unless written permission is granted
by the affected utility. Lesser setbacks will be considered by the Planning
Commission when the applicant provides documentation that an easement from
adjacent properties has been secured which would equal a 125% of the tower
height setback.
   (G)   Performance guarantees.
      (1)   No permits will be issued until the applicant has filed a
performance bond or bank letter of credit approved by the City Attorney equal
to 125% of the cost of completing the following improvements:
         (a)   The construction of any drainage systems involving piping,
culverts or retention or detention facilities;
         (b)   The construction of erosion and sedimentation control measures
or landscaping required to meet the standards of this section; and
         (c)   Other site improvements required by the Planning Commission/
Planning Department to meet the standards of this section.
      (2)   (a)   The owner of a tower shall be required to remove the tower
and associated facilities should it not be used for the use or uses approved
for a period of 90 consecutive days. This period may be extended by the
Planning Commission/Planning Department if there are extenuating circumstances
beyond the control of the applicant. For a permit under this section, an
applicant shall post a performance bond or bank letter of credit approved by
the City Attorney with the city prior to obtaining a permit that is equal to
125% of the cost of removing the structure. The performance guarantee must be
in effect for the life of the tower.
         (b)   The performance guarantee covering the removal shall be reviewed
for renewal at a maximum term of five years, to account for cost adjustments.
It must contain a mechanism, satisfactory to the city, for review of the cost
of removal of the structure every five years and a mechanism for increasing the
amount of the guarantee should the revised cost estimate so necessitate.
      (3)   To ensure compliance with the prescribed ordinances, all approvals
will be subject to an annual permit renewal conducted by the Planning
Department. The Planning Department, at a minimum, shall review the continued
use of the facility; maintenance of the facility and site improvements;
availability for co-location of new service; and review of bonding documents.
The documents and permit renewal fee shall be submitted to the Planning
Department no later than October 1 of each year following the original
approval.
(Prior Code, § 335.03) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.16 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS).
   (A)   Small wind energy systems that connect to the electric utility shall
comply with state utility laws or rules.
   (B)   Meteorological towers shall be permitted under the same standards,
permit requirements, restoration requirements and permit procedures as a small
wind energy system.
   (C)   Any sound emanations or noise produced by the proposed WECS and its
impact on neighboring properties shall be considered by the Planning Department
or Planning Commission during the review process of the application.
(Prior Code, § 335.03) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.17 COMMUNICATION ANTENNA TOWERS.
   (A)   General. Shared use of “pre-existing towers” and “alternative tower
structures” in a manner that camouflages or conceals the presence of antennas
or towers, also referred by the industry as “stealth” in all zones is permitted
with Planning Department’s approval; provided, the tower or structure height is
not increased. The Planning Department may request Planning Commission review
of any proposed citing of a tower or co-located antenna.
   (B)   Aesthetics, landscaping, buffers and fencing. Any buildings and
related structures shall be planned in a manner to accept equipment of co-
locators. Underground utilities shall be used to serve the communication
towers.
   (C)   Investigation of existing alternative towers, sites and structures.
Applicants shall identify all existing and proposed towers, and their heights,
located in the city and within two miles beyond city boundaries. Applicants
must provide evidence of the lack of antenna space on all such towers, and
shall identify alternative tower structures and sites, which have been
investigated as an alternative to constructing a new tower. Applicant shall
address the pros and cons of utilizing co-location and other alternative tower
structures with respect to their application and shall demonstrate that they
cannot provide adequate communication service utilizing the existing towers or
structures.
   (D)   Environment analysis. It is the responsibility of each applicant to
investigate all potential environmental effects and disclose any significant
effects on the environment to the city prior to constructing a tower. The
applicant shall determine if its proposal will affect any of the listed
categories following that may significantly affect the environment as required
under §§ 1.1301 through 1.1319 of the Telecommunication Act of 1996 (or as
amended). If it does, the applicant must provide an environmental assessment as
required by federal law prior to proceeding with the tower construction:
      (1)   Wilderness area;
      (2)   Wildlife preserve;
      (3)   Endangered species;
      (4)   Historical site;
      (5)   Indian religious site;
      (6)   Floodplain;
      (7)   Wetlands;
      (8)   High intensity white lights in residential neighborhoods; and
      (9)   Excessive radio frequency radiation exposure.
   (E)   Co-location.
      (1)   The applicant and owner shall allow for future wireless service
carriers that use functionally equivalent personal wireless technology to co-
locate antennas, equipment and facilities on a telecommunications tower and
site, including public agencies (including, but not limited to, police, fire,
ambulance, communications and highway), unless satisfactory evidence is
presented and the Planning Commission/Planning Department concurs that
technical constraints prohibit co-location. All towers must be constructed to
allow for the location of at least three antennas.
      (2)   Applicants shall provide a mechanism for the construction and
maintenance of shared facilities and infrastructure and shall provide for
reasonable sharing of cost in accordance with industry standards. (A reasonable
charge for shared use is based on generally accepted accounting principles.
This charge may include, but not be limited to, a pro rata share of the cost of
site selection, planning, project administration, land costs, site design,
construction and maintenance, financing, return of equity, depreciation and all
of the costs of adapting the tower or equipment to accommodate a shared user
without causing electromagnetic interference, all being pertinent to this
area.)
      (3)   To ensure co-location, the Planning Commission/Planning Department
may require co-location on a tower so as to prevent the need for new carriers
to build new towers, may deny an application for a telecommunications facility
because of inadequate provisions and/or arrangements for co-location and may
require an existing tower to be extended in height (provided that, a structural
analysis indicates that such extension is structurally feasible and safe) in
order to provide for co-location.
(Prior Code, § 335.03) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.18 VARIANCES.
   Applications for variances shall be submitted as required in §
162.030 of this code of ordinances (or as amended) and criteria from that
section shall be used as standards for considering the variance request. The
Board of Adjustment may consider energy efficiency in determining hardship
standards for WECS locations and functionality in determining hardship
standards for communication tower locations and heights.
(Prior Code, § 335.03) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation for any of the terms of this chapter is a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or jail sentence not to exceed 90
days. Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate
offense. The city reserves the right to obtain civil remedies in the form of
injunctions if the city deems it appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 335.05) (Ord. passed 2-19-2008; Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 155: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
155.01   Compliance required
   
155.02   Private pool
   
155.03   Location
   
155.04   Recirculation pools
   
155.05   Structural design
   
155.06   Walk areas
   
155.07   Fences
   
155.08   Steps or ladders
   
155.09   Electrical requirements
   
155.10   Safety precautions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct, maintain, install or enlarge any swimming
pool in the city, except in compliance with all the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 725.01) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.02 PRIVATE POOL.
   The term SWIMMING POOL is hereby defined as a receptacle for water, or an
artificial pool of water having a depth at any point of more than two feet,
intended for the purpose of immersion or partial immersion therein of human
beings, and including all appurtenant equipment.
(Prior Code, § 725.03)
§ 155.03 LOCATION.
   (A)   No portion of a swimming pool outside a building shall be located at a
distance less than eight feet from any side or rear property line or building
line.
   (B)   Pumps, filters and pool water disinfection equipment installations
shall be located at a distance not less than eight feet from any side property
line.
(Prior Code, § 725.05) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.04 RECIRCULATION POOLS.
   All swimming pools shall be of the recirculator type in which circulation of
the water is maintained through the pool by pumps; the water drawn from the
pool being clarified and disinfected before being returned to the pool.
(Prior Code, § 725.07) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.05 STRUCTURAL DESIGN.
   Swimming pools shall be designed to withstand the water pressure from within
and to resist the pressure of the earth when the pool is empty, to a pressure
of 2,200 pounds per square foot. The slope of the bottom of any part of a pool
in which the water is less than five feet in depth shall not be more than one
foot in each ten feet. The maximum slope where water is five feet or more in
depth shall not exceed one foot in two feet.
(Prior Code, § 725.09) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.06 WALK AREAS.
   Unobstructed walk areas not less than 36 inches wide shall be provided to
extend entirely around the pool. The walk area shall be constructed of
impervious material and the surfaces shall be of such as to be smooth and
easily cleaned and of non-slip construction. The slope of the walks shall have
a pitch of at least one-fourth inch to the foot, designed so as to prevent back
drainage from entering the pool.
(Prior Code, § 725.11) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.07 FENCES.
   (A)   All outdoor pools hereafter constructed shall be completely enclosed
by a fence or wall of the non-climbing type so as to be impenetrable by
toddlers, afford no external handholds or footholds and a minimum of four feet
in height.
   (B)   All outdoor fence openings or outdoor points of entry into the pool
area shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices. The opening
between the bottom of the fence and the ground or other surface shall not be
more than three inches.
(Prior Code, § 725.13) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.08 STEPS OR LADDERS.
   Two or more means of egress in the form of steps or ladders shall be
provided for all swimming pools. At least one such means of egress shall be
located on a side of the pool at both the deep end and shallow end of the pool.
Treads of steps and ladders shall be constructed of non-slip material and at
least three inches wide for their full length. Steps and ladders shall have a
handrail on both sides.
(Prior Code, § 725.15) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.09 ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All electrical installations provided for, installed and used in
conjunction with private residential swimming pools shall be in conformance
with the ordinances regulating electrical installations.
   (B)   No current carrying electrical conductors shall cross private
residential swimming pools, either overhead or underground or within 15 feet of
the pools.
   (C)   All metal fences, enclosures or railings near or adjacent to swimming
pools, which might become electrically alive as a result of contact with broken
overhead conductors or from any other cause, shall be effectively grounded.
(Prior Code, § 725.17) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.10 SAFETY PRECAUTIONS.
   Every swimming pool shall be equipped with one or more throwing ring buoys
not more than 15 inches in diameter and having 60 feet of three-sixteenths-inch
manila line attached, and one or more light, but strong, poles with blunted
ends and not less than 12 feet in length, for making reaching assists or
rescues.
(Prior Code, § 725.19) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter constitute a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both.
(Prior Code, § 725.21)
CHAPTER 156: STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Street nuisances
   
156.02   Damaging public property
   
156.03   Obstructing public levies and landings
   
156.04   Snow and ice removal
Excavations Generally
   
156.15   Permit required
   
156.16   Application procedure
   
156.17   Compliance with permit
Street Excavations
   
156.30   Permit required
   
156.31   Application
   
156.32   Issuance
   
156.33   Fee
   
156.34   Surety bond
   
156.35   Contractor’s insurance
   
156.36   Traffic inconvenience
   
156.37   Utility permits
 
   
156.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 STREET NUISANCES.
   (A)   Prohibition. The acts prohibited by this section are declared to be
public nuisances and may be abated by the city as such.
   (B)   Dirt and filth. No person shall throw, spill, place or deposit or
leave, or cause to be thrown, spilled, placed, deposited or left, or permit any
servant, agent or employee to throw, spill, place, deposit or leave in or upon
any street, highway, alley, sidewalk, park or other public place in the city,
any dirt, sweepings, filth, shells, garbage, vegetables, dead carcasses,
sewage, slops, excrement, compost, stable manure, ashes, sort, tin cans, rags,
waste paper, leaves, brush, weeds, grass, hay excelsior, barrels, crates,
boxes, litter or loose combustible materials; materials subject to being
carried by the wind or unwholesome, noisome or putrescible material of any
kind.
   (C)   Offensive liquids. No person shall allow slops, or malodorous, noxious
liquids to run, drip or fall into or upon any street, highway, alley, sidewalk,
park, stream or other public place.
   (D)   Accumulation of ice and snow. No person shall deposit accumulation of
ice and snow in or upon any street or other public place or way.
   (E)   Glass, china or other substances. No person shall place or cause to be
placed or cause or allow to remain in or upon the surface of any street,
highway, sidewalk, alley or other public place any glass, china, nails, tacks
or other sharp or penetrating substance.
   (F)   Obstruction of sewers and drains. No person shall throw or deposit or
cause to be thrown or deposited into any drain, catch basin, sewer or gutter
any substance which may cause obstruction or injury thereto or nuisance
therein. No person shall divert or stop the flow of any drain or sewer.
(Prior Code, § 605.01) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.02 DAMAGING PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall make any excavation, nor build or construct any
fence, sidewalk or building or structure of any nature in any street, road,
avenue, lane, alley or public grounds of or in the city for any purpose, or
remove any earth or soil therefrom, until he or she shall have been authorized
to do so by a written permit from the Council.
      (2)   No person, when so authorized, shall make any such excavation or
construction, except in accordance with the conditions, provisions, limitations
and specifications contained in the permit and until he or she shall have
erected a guard or fence about the place of the excavation or building,
sufficient to prevent persons or animals from being injured by falling into the
excavation or by articles falling from the construction.
      (3)   Every person making the excavation or construction, when it is
accomplished, or at any time when ordered by the Council, shall without delay,
fill or remove the same, so that the public grounds or thoroughfares shall be
in at least as good condition as before the excavation or construction was
made.
(Prior Code, § 610.01)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to mar, injure, deface, destroy or place
or caused to be placed any advertising device or representation of any kind or
nature upon any fence, tree, guide posts or boards, sign boards, awnings, lamp
posts, lamps or lanterns, street signs, telephone poles or electric poles upon
or along any street, road, avenue, lane, alley, square or other public place in
the city.
(Prior Code, § 610.03)
Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.03 OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC LEVIES AND LANDINGS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation or the
agents, agent, officer or officers thereof to tie, moor, fasten or anchor any
boat or vessel, wharf, boathouse, raft, float or similar vessel or article, to
or alongside any levee or public landing in the city, for a longer period than
48 hours without a license to do so, first obtained from the City Council.
   (B)   Any such boat, vessel, wharf, boathouse, raft or similar vessel or
article so moored or anchored or tied, contrary to the provisions of this
section is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 615.01) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.04 SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or occupant of any building in
front of which, or adjacent to which, a sidewalk has been constructed for the
of the public, to allow any accumulation of snow or ice to remain upon the
sidewalk longer than 24 hours after the snow or ice has ceased to be deposited
thereon.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of a vacant lot, filling station,
implement dealer, corporation or any other person or corporation owning
property adjacent to which a sidewalk has been constructed for the use of the
public, to push or otherwise move the snow, which has fallen upon the property
owned by the foregoing persons or corporations, upon the sidewalks or the
streets adjacent to the property.
   (C)   All snow and ice remaining upon public sidewalks is hereby declared to
constitute a public nuisance, and all persons owning property adjacent to the
public walks are hereby required to abate the nuisance or cause the same to be
abated within 24 hours after the snow or ice has ceased to be deposited on the
sidewalk.
   (D)   Upon the refusal to remove snow or ice from his or her sidewalk by the
owner or occupant, or the failure of the owner or occupant to comply with this
section, shall be sufficient cause for the Mayor to direct the removal of snow
and ice therefrom by city or hired labor or equipment, charging such actual
cost against the abutting land. The Street Commissioner shall compute the
actual cost to each lot or parcel involved. He or she shall submit the report
to the City Council, whereupon each property owner involved shall be billed for
the expense incurred. The amount of the expense shall constitute a lien against
the land in favor of the city, and shall be certified to the County Auditor to
be collected as other real estate taxes are collected.
(Prior Code, § 620.01) (Ord. passed 2-4-2014) Penalty, see §
156.99
EXCAVATIONS GENERALLY
§ 156.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful to excavate, dig or grade the surface of the earth or open
any pits or excavated areas in the earth, if the same has an area of more than
100 square feet and a depth of more than one foot, without a permit therefor as
provided in this subchapter. A permit is not required for excavating incident
to the construction of a building for which a permit has been issued under
Ch. 150 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 205.01) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.16 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Contents. Application for an excavation permit is made in writing to
the Council, setting out the name of the applicant, the general description of
the excavating or grading to be covered by the permit, the location of the
proposed excavating or grading, the estimated quantity of materials to be
removed from the premises, the route of travel in the city upon which the
hauling will take place, the time that work will begin and the time of
anticipated completion and other information as the Council may require. The
application shall be accompanied by the permit fee specified in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Conditions. The Council may impose such conditions on the permit as it
deems reasonably necessary for the protection of the health, safety or general
welfare of the public or for the protection of property.
   (C)   Bond required. The Council shall require the applicant to file a
reasonable surety bond or cash deposit with the city, or certification of
insurance, conditioned upon the compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter and the conditions set forth in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 205.03)
§ 156.17 COMPLIANCE WITH PERMIT.
   (A)   Discontinuance; suspension. The Council reserves the right to revoke
any excavation permit. If the Council orders the excavating or grading to be
discontinued, the continuance of the work is unlawful. If the Council orders
any act to be done to conform the work being done to that authorized by the
permit, the same shall be completed within ten days after mailed notice
thereof. No further excavation work shall be performed within the ten-day
notice period.
   (B)   Revocation. The Council may revoke an excavation permit at any time
when, in its judgment, the public welfare and safety will be thereby protected.
Violation of this subchapter is grounds for revocation.
(Prior Code, § 205.05)
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 156.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to make an excavation within any street or
alley in the city for the purpose of installing water, sewer, steam or gas
pipes or electric or telephone conduits or for any other purpose, without first
obtaining a permit for the excavation from the Utilities Commission or the City
Council. A permit shall not be required for any excavation which is made under
a contract awarded by the city or made by workers hired by the city.
(Prior Code, § 600.01) Penalty, see §
156.99
§ 156.31 APPLICATION.
   Application for permits shall be made in writing on forms provided for that
purpose by the city. The form shall set forth the pertinent regulations
applicable to the permit, as prepared from time to time by the Utilities
Commission or City Engineer, and as modified by the Commission or Engineer with
respect to the particular work covered by the permit. The Utilities Commission
or the City Engineer shall prepare the regulations with respect to excavations
within any street or alley, and shall modify them with respect to particular
work, as shall be necessary or advisable to protect the public from injury, to
prevent damage to public or private property and to minimize interference with
the public use of the streets.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.32 ISSUANCE.
   Permits for excavation are in writing. The permit shall be kept on the site
of the work while it is in progress in the custody of the individual in charge
and shall be exhibited upon request made by any city official or police
officer.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.33 FEE.
   Before a permit is issued, the applicant requesting the permit shall pay the
fee set by §
32.49 of this code of ordinances for each location covered by the permit. Each
transverse excavation and each 300 feet or portion thereof of longitudinal
excavation is a location.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.34 SURETY BOND.
   A surety bond in the amount of $2,000 shall be required from each person
requesting a permit, except a duly licensed and bonded plumber, or a public
utility corporation holding a franchise from the city. The bond shall be
conditioned that the holder will perform the work in accordance with the
applicable regulations, will indemnify and save harmless the city from all
damage caused in the execution of the work or costs in connection with the
repair of the streets or alleys excavated, and that the holder will pay any and
all damages that will be suffered by the city by reason of the failure of the
person securing the permit to observe the terms of this subchapter or by any
reason of negligence in the execution of the work.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.35 CONTRACTOR’S INSURANCE.
   A certified copy of the contractor’s insurance policy, which shall name the
city as an additional insured under the coverage provided by the policy, shall
be filed with the Clerk. This insurance policy shall be not less than $100,000
for bodily injury to or death of one person and $250,000 on account of any one
accident and $50,000 for property damage.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.36 TRAFFIC INCONVENIENCE.
   (A)   Work shall progress in an expeditious manner until completion in order
to avoid unnecessary inconvenience to traffic.
   (B)   In the event that the work shall not be performed in accordance with
the applicable regulations or shall cease or be abandoned without due cause,
the city may, after six hours’ notice in writing to the holder of the permit of
intent to do so, correct the work or fill the excavation, and repair the street
and, in any event, the entire cost to the city of the work shall be a liability
of and shall be paid by the person to whom the permit was issued.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.37 UTILITY PERMITS.
   The provisions of this subchapter are in addition to all utility connection
permits that may be required by ordinance or by the rules and regulations of
the Utilities Commission.
(Prior Code, § 600.01)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with any of the conditions of a permit
issued under §§
156.15 through
156.17 of this chapter or who fails to complete the excavating or grading in
the time prescribed in the application or permit, or who fails to act in
accordance with the requirements authorized by the perm it, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 205.05)
CHAPTER 157: FORESTATION
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Tree Board
   
157.04   Applicability
   
157.05   Forestation management
   
157.06   Planting trees; removing herbaceous plants or shrubs
   
157.07   Duties of private owners
   
157.08   Order procedure
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to protect and promote the public health,
safety and general welfare of the people of the city by:
   (A)   Regulating the planting, maintenance and removal of trees and plants
on all public spaces and rights-of-way;
   (B)   The licensing of the planting, maintenance, removal and trimming of
trees on public lands;
   (C)   The inspection of trees on public and private lands;
   (D)   The control of tree diseases to protect the trees and to prevent and
abate hazardous conditions and nuisances within the city;
   (E)   Protecting and preserving existing healthy trees; and
   (F)   Encouraging the planting of trees for the protection and enhancement
of the environment.
(Prior Code, § 1220.01) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOULEVARD. The property between the edge of the street and the property line
(right-of-way line). On undeveloped streets, that property between the property
lines.
   COMPREHENSIVE TREE PLAN. Official planting guide and regulations outlining
allowed and disallowed species, locations, techniques and treatments.
   DISEASED TREES. Trees afflicted with Dutch elm, oak wilt or other
arboracious diseases identified in the Comprehensive Tree Plan.
   HERBACEOUS PLANTS. Ordinary trees and shrubs.
   TREE. Any self-supporting, woody perennial plant.
   TREE TRIMMING. Recommended trimming and pruning techniques are outlined in
the Comprehensive Tree Plan. “Tree topping” is specifically prohibited on all
public lands.
(Prior Code, § 1220.02) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.03 TREE BOARD.
   The Park Commission shall act as the city’s Tree Board in all matters
relating to the advice on issues contained in this chapter and all other
matters relating to forestation within the city. The process, conditions for
appointment and terms shall be the same as those for the Park Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1220.03) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all trees, plants and shrubs located within street
rights-of-way, parks and public places of the city, and to trees, plants and
shrubs located on private property that constitute a hazard or threat, as set
forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1220.04) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.05 FORESTATION MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   City Forester. The Park Superintendent or such other employee so
designated by the City Clerk shall act as the City Forester.
   (B)   Authority of City Forester. The City Forester shall have jurisdiction
and supervision over all trees, shrubs and plants located within street rights-
of-way, parks and public places of the city and to trees, plants and shrubs
located on private property that constitute a hazard or threat.
   (C)   Duties of Forester. The City Forester may cause the planting of trees
on public grounds and may direct the trimming, removal, treatment or other care
of any tree, shrub or plant on private property in order to preserve or restore
its condition or to protect the public from damage or injury. The cost of any
such work may be assessed against the property on which the tree is located.
   (D)   Tree Planting Plan. In addition to the other responsibilities under
this chapter, the City Forester shall prepare a Comprehensive Tree Plan
regarding the planting of trees on public property within the city and the
planting of trees on private property that may present a health or safety
hazard. When approved by resolution of the City Council following a review by
the city’s Tree Board, the Comprehensive Tree Plan and any modifications will
be the official plan of the city. After the adoption of the official plan, no
tree planting permit will be issued which does not conform to the Comprehensive
Tree Plan.
   (E)   Comprehensive Tree Plan contents. The Comprehensive Tree Plan shall
address the following matters together with any other matters deemed
appropriate by the City Forester:
      (1)   List of acceptable varieties: the list may provide for the planting
of certain varieties or mixes of varieties in certain locations;
      (2)   Specifically prohibited plantings;
      (3)   Minimum size;
      (4)   Grade;
      (5)   Method of planting and support;
      (6)   Maintenance; and
      (7)   Recommended trimming and pruning techniques.
(Prior Code, § 1220.05) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.06 PLANTING TREES; REMOVING HERBACEOUS PLANTS OR SHRUBS.
   (A)   Hazard placement. No tree, shrub or herbaceous plant shall be planted,
placed or allowed to remain in a place which the City Forester determines
causes a traffic hazard.
   (B)   Boulevard planting. Trees, herbaceous plants or shrubs must be located
within the first three feet of the boulevard, measured from the property line
and shall be consistent with the Comprehensive City Tree Plan and not in
conflict with public plantings based on the judgment of the City Forester.
Planting within the boulevard or upon other public property owned by the city
will be by permit only.
   (C)   Spacing/placement. Placement of trees, herbaceous plants or shrubs
must be consistent with §§
157.06 and
157.08 of this chapter and the regulations listed in the Comprehensive Tree
Plan.
   (D)   Abuse or mutilation. No person shall on public spaces and right-of-
way:
      (1)   Damage, cut, remove, transplant, burn, carve, kill or injure trees
without authorization;
      (2)   Trim, prune, remove, spray or otherwise treat trees without
authorization;
      (3)   Attach any rope, wire, advertising poster or other contrivance to
any tree; and
      (4)   Cause or permit any wire charged with electricity or any gaseous
liquid or solid substance to come in contact with trees which are located on,
or extend over, any public street, boulevard, park or other public place
without a permit.
   (E)   Permits.
      (1)   No person shall plant, maintain, prune or remove trees or shrubs on
a public boulevard without first obtaining a permit from the City Forester.
      (2)   The following provisions apply to the issuance of permits for
planting trees or herbaceous plants and shrubs on a public boulevard:
         (a)   Application data. The application required under this section
shall state the number of trees to be planted, the location, size and specific
species of each tree or plant;
         (b)   Standards for issuance. A permit shall be issued by the City
Forester only after the application has been determined to be in compliance
with the Comprehensive Tree Plan and the requirements of this section and
related sections;
         (c)   Replacement. As a condition to the granting of a tree removal
permit, the City Forester may require the applicant to relocate or replace
trees consistent with the Comprehensive Tree Plan;
         (d)   Bond requirements. A compliance bond or cash escrow may be
required in an amount to be determined by the City Forester conditioned upon
satisfactory compliance with the terms of the permit;
         (e)   Permit denial. If a tree planting or removal permit is denied,
the reason(s) for denial shall be set forth in writing and given to the
applicant; and
         (f)   Denial appeal. Any applicant adversely affected by the decision
may appeal to the city’s Tree Board and, finally, to the City Council.
   (F)   Areas not applicable. The provisions of division (D) above shall not
apply to:
      (1)   The removal of trees on public easements/rights-of-way, conducted
by or, on behalf of, a federal, state, county, municipal or other governmental
agency in pursuance of its lawful activities or functions in construction of
improvements; or
      (2)   The removal of any tree by a public utility when the tree has the
reasonable potential of endangering the facility’s operation by the utility.
(Prior Code, § 1220.06) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.07 DUTIES OF PRIVATE OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning private property to comply with
the following.
   (A)   Planting on private property. No person shall plant or allow to be
planted on any privately- owned property any tree listed on the city tree plan
as prohibited.
   (B)   Acceptable plant materials. All plant materials shall not have
characteristics detrimental to the public welfare such as susceptibility to
disease and wind damage or a tendency to interfere with utilities or public
easements or rights-of-way.
   (C)   Prohibited obstructions.
      (1)   Obstructing view. No tree or herbaceous plant or shrub shall be
planted or allowed to grow so as to obstruct the view of any vehicular traffic
on streets or pathways or pedestrians on pathways.
      (2)   Utilities. No trees may be planted under or within ten level feet
of any overhead utility wire or over or within ten lateral feet of any
underground water line.
   (D)   Trimming of trees. Private property trees must be trimmed so as not to
cause a hazard to persons or property on abutting property. All trees shall be
pruned to sufficient height to allow free passage of pedestrians and vehicular
traffic: nine feet over sidewalks and 16 feet over streets.
   (E)   Tree inspection. The City Forester may enter on any private lands
which may harbor diseased or dangerous trees as listed in the official
Comprehensive Tree Plan to inspect trees located on the premises.
   (F)   Removal of diseased or dangerous trees. Diseased and/or insect-ridden
trees, dead or injured trees deemed to be a health or safety hazard by the City
Forester must be treated or removed so as not to constitute a health or safety
hazard to the public or other trees or plants in the city.
   (G)   Storm-damaged trees. Storm-damaged trees within the city right-of-way
will be removed by the city. Removal of stumps will be the responsibility of
the adjacent property owner.
   (H)   Stockpiling and storage of elm logs. No person shall stockpile or
store elm logs with the bark intact without first having obtained a permit to
do so, The City Forester may issue permits, upon proper application, for the
stockpiling or storage of the logs only between September 15 and April 1 of the
following year and only at locations which are specified in the permit.
   (I)   Abatement of Dutch elm disease. The City Forester shall cause the
infected tree or wood to be removed or otherwise effectively treated so as to
destroy and prevent, as fully as possible, the spread of Dutch elm disease
fungus and elm bark beetles. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in
accordance with current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be
designated by the City Forester.
(Prior Code, § 1220.07) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
§ 157.08 ORDER PROCEDURE.
   When the City Forester determines that it is necessary to order the
trimming, treatment or removal of trees or plants as authorized in §
157.07 of this chapter, a written order to correct the condition shall be
served.
   (A)   Notice format.
 
Dutch elm disease/oak wilt disease (or other prohibited or dangerous trees, as listed in the city tree plan) exist on
                                                                       these premises:  (legal address)  and all trees marked with a designated
symbol must be removed by  (date) .
BY ORDER OF THE CITY FORESTER
 
   (B)   Removal date. The date inserted in the notice in division (A) above
shall be 22 days after the notice is mailed.
   (C)   Appeal. A person receiving the notice may, within five working days of
the postmark date of the notice, file an appeal with the city. The appeal will
be heard by the city’s Tree Board and forwarded to the City Council for action
within 21 calendar days following the appeal of the notice.
   (D)   Summary removal of diseased trees. In the event the trees covered in
the notice are not removed, destroyed and/or treated, as provided in divisions
(A) through (C) above, within ten calendar days following the denial on an
appeal as set forth in division (C), the City Forester shall cause the tree to
be summarily removed, destroyed and/or treated and shall take any other action
necessary to prevent the spread of the disease or danger to the public.
   (E)   Emergency situations. Under emergency situations, where delay may
cause an unreasonable amount of risk to the health, welfare or safety of the
people of the city, the City Forester may cause necessary action to be taken to
private trees without prior notification to the property owner.
   (F)   Cost responsibility. Any costs of inspecting, removing or treating
trees, including any legal expense, shall be itemized and mailed to the owner
at the address shown in the records of the County Auditor. In the event the
itemized bill is not paid within 30 days, the amount of the costs, plus
interest, shall be certified to the proper county officials as a special
assessment and collected with the next succeeding five years real estate taxes
as provided for in M.S. §§ 18.83 and 429.101, as they may be amended from time.
(Prior Code, § 1220.08) (Ord. passed 3-1-2011)
CHAPTER 158: MINING AND EXTRACTION ACTIVITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
158.001   Statement of purpose
   
158.002   Definitions
   
158.003   Administration; application process
   
158.004   Permit applications; required information
   
158.005   Non-conforming mines; registration
   
158.006   Annual operators report and inspection
   
158.007   Permits; transfer or revocation
Minimum Standards for All Mines
   
158.020   Prohibited activities
   
158.021   Allowed mine locations
   
158.022   Water resources
   
158.023   Safety fencing
   
158.024   Access roads
   
158.025   Driveways; access for sites
   
158.026   Tracking pads; pavement
   
158.027   Setbacks
   
158.028   Appearance generally
   
158.029   Screening
   
158.030   Hours of operation
   
158.031   Lighting
   
158.032   Interior roads
   
158.033   Topsoil management
   
158.034   Inspections
   
158.035   Dust control
   
158.036   Air quality monitoring
   
158.037   Site clearing
   
158.038   Blasting and use of explosives
   
158.039   Intermittent mining
   
158.040   Direct impact
   
158.041   Processing at mine site
   
158.042   Road maintenance agreement
   
158.043   Reclamation; costs
Reclamation Standards
   
158.055   General
   
158.056   Completion; termination
   
158.057   Topsoil redistribution
   
158.058   End land use
   
158.059   Final grading and slopes
   
158.060   Vegetation; revegetation
   
158.061   Water
   
158.062   Assessing completion of successful reclamation
   
158.063   Return to pre-existing condition
   
158.064   Maintenance
Subsurface Mineral Exploration
   
158.075   General
   
158.076   Permit required
   
158.077   Information required
   
158.078   Exploratory boring construction requirements
   
158.079   Exploratory boring setbacks
   
158.080   Abandonment of exploratory borings
 
   
158.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.001 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city does ordain based on the following findings of fact and
statement of purpose:
      (1)   The excavation of different mineral resources and aggregates have
the potential for different levels of impact on the community based on:
         (a)   Content of the mineral resource being excavated;
         (b)   The excavation process of the resource and its potential impact
on water and air quality and on safety and visual impacts;
         (c)   The size of particulates which become airborne;
         (d)   The cleaning, sorting and processing of the resource;
         (e)   The amount of material excavated over a given period of time
along with the method of transporting the material away from the mine site; and
         (f)   The treatment of the land after the resource is removed.
      (2)   Atmospheric particulate matter under the size of ten microns are
respirable; they are small enough to penetrate the nose and upper respiratory
system and enter deep into the lungs. (As supported by The Integrated Science
Assessment for Particulate Matter (U.S. EPA Integrated Science Assessment for
Particulate Matter (final report)), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
Washington, DC EPA/600R-08/139F, 2009.)
      (3)   The respiration of some mineral resources have the potential to
cause health impacts to those breathing them in over time.
      (4)   The noise and vibrations created by some mining activities impact
neighbors (in particular residential) in a negative manner.
      (5)   The location and depth of a mine has the potential to impact
underground water sources depended upon by the public for drinking water.
      (6)   The methods and treatment of a mine site after the excavation
process ends has a great impact on the ultimate use of the property and the
impact of that site on neighboring properties and the community as a whole.
      (7)   The mining of industrial aggregates is generally more intensive
than construction aggregate mining in terms of its negative impact on the land
and the operations impact on plant, animal and human lives within the
community.
      (8)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, allows: “A
municipality may, by ordinance, permit an expansion or impose upon non-
conformities reasonable regulations to prevent and abate nuisances and to
protect the public health, welfare or safety.”
      (9)   Guiding principles of the Comprehensive Plan include:
         (a)   A balanced approach to managing change and growth through
community development, which is the combined efforts to sustain the community
for the benefit of those living in it, considering and weighing all topic areas
identified within this plan;
         (b)   Creation of an environment that allows for and encourages
economic opportunities for individuals and businesses choosing to locate in the
city;
         (c)   Creation and maintenance of a healthy environment; providing a
living, working and recreational environment which allows individuals residing
or visiting the city to make choices for a healthy lifestyle;
         (d)   Creation and maintenance of a human habitat that includes the
natural and physical environment and the relationship of people with that
environment;
         (e)   Preservation of natural and cultural elements which gives the
Wabasha community an exceptional sense of place and attracts people to live and
visit; and
         (f)   Continued commitment to tourism, sharing the natural, cultural
and built environment of the community with visitors and striving to provide
services to meet the needs of that growing industry.
   (B)   Now, therefore, the city does ordain for the purpose of protecting the
health, safety and general welfare of the community the following standards and
regulations pertaining to mining, mineral resource extraction operations and
subsurface mineral exploration within the city. The objective of this provision
is to minimize soil erosion and land scarring, to monitor the consumption of
natural resources and minimize the impact of these activities on the adjacent
lands, resources and persons residing in the area, preventing mining and
extraction operations from creating a nuisance and health hazards within the
community.
(Prior Code, § 345.01)
§ 158.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS (C.F.R.) EXCAVATION. A development process and
not an ultimate land use including any artificial movement of the earth,
including grading, digging, filling, removal or addition of earth material made
by tunneling or breaking or undermining the surface of the earth.
   CONSTRUCTION SAND AND GRAVEL. Mineral resources which typically are mined by
open pit excavation (or by dredging) carried out with power shovels, draglines,
front end loaders and bucket wheel excavators. Typically mined locally from
dolomite geological strata, Standard Classification Code categories include:
SCC 3-05-025; SIC 1442; and NAICS 21232.1.
   CULTIVATION. The process of disturbing the land for agriculture purposes
with no direct removal of mineral resources.
   EQUIVALENT METHOD. A method of sampling and analyzing the ambient air for an
air pollutant that has been designated as an equivalent method in accordance
with part 53 of the same chapter; it does not include a method for which an
equivalent method designation has been cancelled in accordance with §§ 53.11 or
53.16 of the chapter and which is incorporated by reference Minn. Rules part
7009.0050.
   EXTRACTION. The process whereby materials are removed from the subsurface of
the earth to be sold or used elsewhere.
   EXTRACTIVE OPERATION/MINE. The surface or subsurface removal only of sand,
gravel, rock or other non-metallic minerals, and peat from the site for use as
a product elsewhere not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be
amended from time to time, through an excavation or quarrying process.
Excavations for the purpose of impounding water for agricultural purposes are
exempted.
   FILL, FILLING or FILLING OPERATION. The depositing of fill, dredge, sand,
gravel, dirt and all other similar material in excess of 1,000 cubic yards or
more onto or into a parcel of land.
   HEAVY PROCESSING. Compounding, mixing or treatment of sand, gravels, rocks
or any other extracted material with chemicals and/or into consumable products
such as concrete, asphalt and other similar products or to an industrial sand
or gravel product or to a volume which exceeds 500 tons per day (or 150,000
tons per year) or uses 500 gallons of water per minute (g.p.m.) or more.
   INDUSTRIAL SAND AND GRAVEL. Mineral resources which typically are mined from
quartz- rich sand and sandstone including the St. Peter, Jordan and Wonewoc
geological strata locally. Standard Classification Code categories include: SCC
3-05-027; SIC 1446; and NAICS 212322.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSING DISTRIBUTION OR STORAGE. Establishments involved in
the storage or distribution of materials or equipment on a primarily wholesale
basis or as support to a service industry includes, but is not limited to:
warehousing facilities; freight terminals; fleet storage; contractors yards;
wholesale industrial equipment sales and rental; and ancillary business
offices.
   MINE or MINE SITE. See EXTRACTIVE OPERATION/MINE.
   MINERAL RESOURCES. Rock, gravel, sand and metallic and non-metallic
substances of commercial value.
   NAICS CODE. The North American Industrial Classification System. A system
for classifying industries by a six-digit code.
   NON-CONFORMING MINING OPERATIONS. Existing mines which do not meet the
standards of this chapter or mining standards of
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Material, except water, which exists at standard
conditions in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid as measured by an
applicable reference method, or an equivalent or alternative method or as
amended in Minn. Rules part 7005.0100, subpart 31.
   PM 2.5. Finely divided solid or liquid material, with an aerodynamic
diameter less than or equal to a nominal two and one-half micrometers as
measured by an applicable reference method, or an equivalent or alternative
method or as amended in Minn. Rules part 7005.0100, subpart 30a.
   PM 10. Finely divided solid or liquid material, with an aerodynamic diameter
less than or equal to a nominal ten micrometers as measured by an applicable
reference method, or an equivalent or alternative method or as amended in Minn.
Rules part 7005.0100, subpart 30b.
   PROCESSING. The sorting, washing, crushing and/or screening of extracted
material to construction grade sand, gravel or stone product.
   RECLAMATION. To renew land to a self-sustaining, long-term use that is
compatible with pre- mining situations and/or the city’s Comprehensive Land Use
Plan.
   REFERENCE METHOD or METHOD.
      (1)   Used in the context of performance test measurements. The
procedures for performance tests in 40 C.F.R. part 60, app. A, as amended; part
61, app. B, as amended; and part 51, app. M, as amended, or as amended in Minn.
Rules part 7005.0100, subpart 35c.
      (2)   Used in the context of measuring ambient air. A method of sampling
and analyzing the ambient air for an air pollutant that is specified as a
reference method in an appendix to 40 C.F.R. § 50.1 in accordance with part 53
of the same chapter; it does not include a method for which a reference method
designation has been cancelled in accordance with § 53.11 of the chapter and
which is incorporated by reference Minn. Rules part 7009.0050.
   SCC CODE.
      (1)   Source classification codes are an EPA classification system.
      (2)   Each SCC represents a unique source category-specific process or
function that emits an air pollutant. The SCCs are used as a primary
identifying data element in EPA’s WebFIRE, the National Emissions Inventory
(NEI) and other EPA databases. The SCCs are also used by many regional, state,
local and tribal agency emissions data systems.
      (3)   Point source emissions use eight digit codes.
   SIC CODE.   The Standard Industrial Classification is a system for
classifying industries by a four-digit code used by many departments of the
U.S. Government, including OSHA.
   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN. A document that illustrates, how the
site will be designed to prevent or minimize soil erosion on a parcel of land
and off-site sediment damages.
(Prior Code, § 345.02)
§ 158.003 ADMINISTRATION; APPLICATION PROCESS.
   (A)   New mines are allowed to locate in any place of the city where zoning
(
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances) allows them as permitted, conditional or
interim uses. A permit shall be required for all mining/mineral extraction and
subsurface mineral exploration operations, as defined in this chapter, as
follows.
      (1)   New operations shall apply for a permit prior to any commencement
of excavation activities.
      (2)   Changes in activity for existing non-conforming mining operations
shall require an application for a permit prior to the commencement of any work
or operational changes for the following changes:
         (a)   Source for material mined, going into different group or
formation of geological strata as illustrated on the Wabasha County Geological
Survey from what was previously mined or approved. For example going from the
Prairie du Chein Group (including dolomite, limestone and thin sands of the
Shakopee, New Richmond (or Root River) and Oneonta formations), to the Jordan
formation sandstone;
         (b)   The process of removing the material is modified (e.g.,
tunneling versus surface mining) when such changes provide for a departure from
the original nature and purpose of the mining operation; and
         (c)   Subsurface mineral exploration, as detailed in §§
158.055 through
158.064 of this chapter.
   (B)   All applications shall include the submittal of a form as provided for
by the city completed along with all required attachments as identified in this
section and any fees established under §
32.49 of this code of ordinances.
      (1)   (a)   Any application for a permit within a designated shoreland
zone (as indicated in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances) or floodplain shall require a submittal by
the city of the application and Planning Commission/City Council meeting
information to the DNR area hydrologist at least ten days prior to the Planning
Commission review.
         (b)   Application materials shall be submitted to the city’s Planning
Commission for review.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and review
and consider the impact of the proposed operation and its conformance to this
chapter along with anticipated impact to the future development of the city.
         (d)   Notice of time and place of the hearing shall be published at
least once not less than ten days, nor more than 30 days, preceding the hearing
in the newspaper of general circulation in the city.
         (e)   A similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to each property situated wholly or partly within one-half
mile of the property line of the land under ownership (of the contiguous
parcel) of the proposed mine site.
         (f)   The Planning Commission may require additional review with
additional materials to be submitted.
         (g)   City staff or the Planning Commission may request review and
comment (to be forwarded to the City Council) from the Board of Water and Soil
Resources, DNR, Department of Health, Pollution Control Agency or similar state
or county departments as deemed appropriate.
         (h)   The Planning Commission shall provide a recommendation for
issuance or denial of the permit with drafted findings of facts in support of
its recommendation to the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council shall consider the application materials and
recommendation of the Planning Commission as well as any comments or
recommendations from other agencies and shall determine the approval or denial
of the permit. The City Council shall also require a performance bond or a bank
letter of credit for 110% of estimated reclamation expenses (as approved by the
city) from the land owner to be submitted prior to or as a condition of the
issuance of the mining permit. Total amount of assurance shall be based on the
planned open mine cell in its entirety. The bond or letter of credit shall
continue to be in effect until released by the city or completion of
reclamation process occurs. City Council shall also require any additional
assurances as indicated herein along with proof of liability insurance for
$2,000,000.
      (3)   The document Tools to Assist Local Governments in Planning for and
Regulating Silica Sand Projects, adopted by the state’s Environmental Quality
Board (3-7-2014) and similar advisory documents will be utilized for proposal
analysis.
      (4)   Permit renewal is required every two years starting with the date
of initial application submittal. The City Council may extend the renewal
period to every five years after the first renewal permit has expired or the
operation has been in existence for more than three years without receiving
citations of improper operations.
      (5)   The applicant shall be required to submit to the city sufficient
funds to cover all expected consulting fees related to application review,
activity and site monitoring and post activity requirements. These may include,
but are not limited to, establishing and monitoring environmental (e.g., air
and water) or infrastructure (e.g., road and storm water management) concerns.
The city shall establish an escrow account for this purpose.
      (6)   Reasons for denial (including renewal permits) include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Failure of the operation to follow agreed upon practices under
previously issued permit;
         (b)   Air quality monitoring results that pose a health issue to the
public;
         (c)   Applicants failure to provide an adequate permit application,
reclamation plan, financial assurance or any other submittal required by this
chapter. The city has discretion to assess the adequacy of the information
provided in the permit application, including whether human health and the
environment will be protected. Denial of a permit based on inadequate
application submittal shall not be construed to disallow future applications on
the same project; however, the applications shall be deemed a new review
process; and
         (d)   Failure to prevent ground or surface water contamination.
(Prior Code, § 345.03)
§ 158.004 PERMIT APPLICATIONS; REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   The following information shall be provided by the person requesting the
permit in order for the city to consider the potential effects from the
proposal on environmental, economic and social effects of the proposed project
onto the community and shall be completed by a licensed engineer, geologist,
surveyor or landscape architect or other professional specialist (as
appropriate):
   (A)   Name and address of the property owner;
   (B)   Name, address, phone number and e-mail contact of the company or
person conducting the excavation/mining on the property;
   (C)   The person or company requesting the mining permit, if different than
the land owner or mine operator;
   (D)   The legal property description and acreage of the entire property
under ownership and the area and volume of resource to be mined;
   (E)   A deed or other proof of ownership of the property along with a lease
or other agreement with the property owner if applicant and property owner are
not the same;
   (F)   The following maps/documents of the entire site and including all
areas within one-fourth mile of the site. These shall be drawn to a legible
scale.
      (1)   Map/Document 1. Existing conditions to include:
         (a)   Contour lines at two-foot intervals;
         (b)   Existing vegetation;
         (c)   A DNR Natural Heritage Information System (NHIS) data request
form with NHIS response;
         (d)   Existing drainage and water retention areas;
         (e)   Location of all wetlands per the National Wetland Inventory or
as determined by a wetland delineation; and
         (f)   Location of all archaeological, historic and cultural resources
(including any cemeteries or known burials) located on the proposed mine
prepared by a professional in the field of historic resource management
property including:
            1.   Any such resources known by the property owner;
            2.   Those listed on or determined eligible for listing on the
National Register of Historic Places;
            3.   Those indicated on the statewide inventories or other
statewide lists as overseen by the state’s Historic Preservation Office;
            4.   Those included on any local list of significant resources kept
by the city under the guidance of the Heritage Preservation Commission;
            5.   Existing structures (with photos and a keyed map of
locations); and
            6.   Existing fuel stations or chemical storage tanks.
      (2)   Map/Document 2. Proposed operations to include:
         (a)   Structures to be erected;
         (b)   Location of sites to be mined showing depth of proposed
extraction in two-foot contours;
         (c)   A description of the proposed depth of the mine, the geological
strata from which material will be removed and the distance (vertically and
horizontally) from any public or private drinking water source aquifers along
with a plan for dewatering (if needed) and, of deemed necessary by the City
Engineer a well interference response plan which must be approved prior to, and
will be made a condition of approval of the permit;
         (d)   Location of storage of excavated materials, showing the height
of storage deposits;
         (e)   Location of vehicle parking including surface treatment, number
of spaces and numbers of employees; and
         (f)   Location of storage of explosives (if any) along with
containment structure description.
      (3)   Map/Document 3. Reclamation plan to include:
         (a)   Final grade of proposed site showing elevations and contour
lines at two-foot intervals;
         (b)   Location and list of non-invasive species of vegetation to be
replanted; and
         (c)   Location and nature of any structures to be erected in relation
to the end use plan.
      (4)   Map/Document 4. Proposed method to convey extracted material along
with map showing the proposed route. If the mine operation meets the definition
of major traffic generators (as defined in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances), all standards and requirements for that
CUP must be met and that process may occur concurrently to the review of the
mine permit application:
         (a)   A geologic survey and a karst features survey of the property
and the surrounding area within 1,000 feet of the property prepared by a
licensed and accredited mining geologist;
         (b)   Plans for dust control, noise control and a soil erosion and
sediment control plan; and
         (c)   A plan for air quality monitoring which will address the
following:
            1.   Data on the type and specifications of the monitoring
equipment proposed to be used; and
            2.   Monitoring siting criteria as established by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) which are described in 40 C.F.R. part 58,
app. E.
      (G)   For horizontal and vertical placement of monitors based on a study
(submitted with the air quality plan) to determine the criteria for placement
of air monitoring probes or sample inlets. In most cases, air monitoring probes
and inlets must be located between seven and 23 feet above ground level. As a
result, monitoring sites located at ground level typically require the
installation of an elevated platform or shelter. Air monitoring sites may also
be located on the roof of a building which is no higher than two stories;
      (H)   For placement of monitors with spacing from emission sources for
source-oriented or hot- spot monitoring. Air monitors should be located as
close to the area of expected maximum air pollution concentration as safely
possible;
   (I)   Spacing from obstructions: buildings and other obstacles can impact
air monitoring results by scavenging pollutants and restricting airflow to the
monitor, resulting in inaccurate air concentration measurements. In general, if
an obstruction is located near an air monitoring site, the distance of the air
monitor from the obstruction must be two-times the height of the obstruction;
   (J)   The monitoring of ambient air to compare air monitoring results with
air quality standards, The air monitoring site must be measuring ambient air
outside of the facility’s property line if a fence or other physical
obstruction prevents public access. If no such obstruction exists, air quality
monitors located within a facility’s property boundary may be considered
ambient. Air monitors must conform to U.S. EPA’s design standards as outlined
in 40 C.F.R. parts 50, 53 and 58. The use of reference or equivalent methods to
help assure the reliability of air quality measurements is required; and
   (K)   Recording of air concentrations of: total suspended particles (TSP),
inhalable particles (PM10), fine particles (PM2.5) and crystalline silica as
PM10 or PM4 per the standards agreed to in the accepted monitoring plan:
      (1)   A completed non-metallic mining and associated activities
compliance audit checklist (created by the state’s Pollution Control Agency). A
copy of the issued NPDES/SDS permit may be provided with the application
instead and (if required under state law) may be required as a condition of
permit approval;
      (2)   A full and adequate description of all phases of the proposed
operation to include an estimate of duration of the mining operation and
reclamation for each area;
      (3)   Type of material being removed from the site and intended use
according to SCC, SIC and NAICS codes, including identification of particle
size(s) being removed from the site;
      (4)   A complete list of any chemical or toxic substance proposed for use
of any excavation or mining process including through injection, land
application or other method of use;
      (5)   A description of the proposed depth of the mine;
      (6)   Identification of water needs including amount (overall and gallons
per day), source of water and plans for water recycling/reclamation along with
permits for any existing or approved wells from the county and from the state’s
Department of Natural Resources;
      (7)   Location and depth of any existing and proposed wells on the
property and within one and one-half-mile radius of the mine pit. All wells
including those for monitoring, dewatering, industrial processes and drinking
water shall be indicated;
      (8)   A blasting and monitoring plan (for those operations using
explosives) to include the following information:
         (a)   An indication of the circumstances blasting is proposed for the
mining activity at that site along with anticipated timing and duration of
blasting;
         (b)   The process and procedures which will be used to prepare for
blasting at the site, including:
            1.   Company policies and procedures on blasting and use of
explosives (generally and specific to this site);
            2.   Security procedures to be used for securing the site before
and during the blasting activity; and
            3.   An indication of the use of best management practices to
assure that the release of chemicals, including ammonia nitrate/fuel oil,
nitrates, polyacrylamide and acrylamide into the environment during any point
of the blasting process is minimized to the fullest extent possible.
         (c)   These procedures shall include notification to the city to be
provided at least three business days prior to blasting activity and will
include the following:
            1.   The date and time blasting will start along with the
anticipated duration of the activity;
            2.   Name, address, license number, contact phone numbers and e-
mail address of the blaster in charge of the blast;
            3.   Name, address, contact phone numbers and e-mail address of any
person (agent or employee) in charge of the operation who will respond to
inquiries by the city;
            4.   A map showing the location of the blasting site including the
location of all the buildings located within one-half mile of the controlled
blasting site, names, addresses and contact information of owners of those
buildings;
            5.   Copy of license and/or permits issued by the state’s Fire
Marshal (as required by M.S. §§ 299F.73 and 299F.74, as they may be amended
from time to time); and
            6.   Copy of any license and/or permit issued by the Federal Mining
Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) (as required by 30 C.F.R part 56, as
they may be amended from time to time).
      (9)   In any situation where the operation proposed will require a
mandatory environmental assessment worksheet or environmental impact statement,
pursuant to M.S. §§ 116D.04 and 116D.045, as they may be amended from time to
time, and the administrative rules Ch. 4410, this process shall be initiated
upon mining permit application to the city. A discretionary EAW may be required
per the standards and procedures set forth in state law after the mining permit
is submitted. Review of the mining permit, per these regulations, may occur
concurrently but the project may not proceed, no final approvals shall be made
by the city, and a permit shall not be issued until the environmental review
process is complete as indicated by one of the following:
         (a)   A petition for an EAW is dismissed;
         (b)   A negative declaration on the need for an EIS is made (by the
RGU);
         (c)   An EIS is determined adequate;
         (d)   A variance is granted by the Environmental Quality Board; and
         (e)   Current or proposed pollution prevention measures and emergency/
spill response plan including:
            1.   Spill prevention and fueling plan;
            2.   Employee training and housekeeping practices;
            3.   Storage locations and methods of containment for any chemicals
or fuels;
            4.   Existing and planned erosion and sediment control structures
and methods; and
            5.   Any other information requested by the Planning Commission or
City Council.
      (10)   The city may utilize professional outside consultants to assist in
review of submitted materials and the cost of the review shall be borne by the
permit applicant; and
      (11)   Proof of liability insurance for $2,000,000.
(Prior Code, § 345.04)
§ 158.005 NON-CONFORMING MINES; REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Existing mines which do not meet the standards of this chapter or
mining standards of the zoning code are deemed non-conforming mining
operations. These shall be allowed to continue to operate per M.S. § 462.357,
as it may be amended from time to time. The extent of the non-conforming mine
shall be established and recorded by the city.
   (B)   A non-conforming mine may register its operation as prescribed below.
The city shall also investigate the nature and extent of the non-conforming use
making a final determination of the extent of the non-conformity based on its
own investigation and upon the information provided by the mining operation,
and the city shall record and file the same with the County Recorder. The
following information is needed to register:
      (1)   Name and address of the property owner;
      (2)   Name, address, phone number and e-mail contact of the company or
person conducting the excavation/mining on the property;
      (3)   A general history of the operation indicating when mining began and
major changes to the operation occurred (if known);
      (4)   The legal property description and acreage of the entire property
under ownership by the land owner currently and at the time the mine became
non-conforming;
      (5)   A description of the specific area to be mined;
      (6)   Any lease or mining agreements between the property owner and mine
operator indicating the extent of the mining operation existing at the time the
mine became non-conforming;
      (7)   One or more maps or site plans showing:
         (a)   Existing mine location;
         (b)   Proposed extent of mine boundary including distances between the
mine opening and any neighboring property boundaries, road rights-of-way and
the top and toe of any bluffs;
         (c)   Anticipated time frame of mine extensions (a phasing plan of
which areas will be mined and when);
         (d)   Proposed depth of mine;
         (e)   Existing drainage patterns and water retention areas, if any;
         (f)   Location of any known sinkholes, wetlands, springs or similar
surface features, located on property;
         (g)   Existing and proposed fuel stations or chemical storage tanks
with description of material and size of tank;
         (h)   A general description of any processing which occurs on site and
a list of any chemicals used in that process; and
         (i)   Location of storage of excavated materials along with the height
of storage deposits.
      (8)   An indication of any expectation of the need for dewatering and
anticipated source of water (ground water or accumulating storm water/snow
melt) along with a plan for water disposal or drainage routing;
      (9)   If blasting is used at the mine site, a general description of the
process used including any safety or emergency response plans. The city may
request additional information be provided to the city’s Fire Chief or Director
of Emergency Management if deemed necessary to protect the public health and
safety;
      (10)   Annual registration of the non-conforming mine indicating:
         (a)   Divisions (B)(1) through (B)(4) above along with an updated site
plan showing:
            1.   Areas mined in full where no additional mining is planned to
occur;
            2.   Areas proposed for mining over the subsequent two-year period;
and
            3.   Any areas proposed for reclamation within the next two-year
period.
         (b)   Divisions (B)(5) through (B)(8) above shall be provided during
annual registration only where changes have occurred since the previous
registration provided to the city.
      (11)   A plan for eventual reclamation of the mine site is requested to
be provided upon initial registration with as much detail as the property
owner/mine operator has at that time. Additional information, proposed changes
and updates to the reclamation plan shall be provided during annual
registration. The following information shall be provided in the reclamation
plan:
         (a)   Proposed final grades and elevations shown on a map along with a
general description of the reclamation process such as filling or re-grading;
         (b)   A proposed description of final use of the mine site; and
         (c)   Locations of any areas proposed for final ponding including
proposed depth of and slope of pond edges:
            1.   Location and type of (non-invasive species) vegetation to be
replanted; and
            2.   Location and nature of any structures to be erected in
relation to the end use planned for the site.
      (12)   Mine operators may provide to the city any additional information
or data they would like for the city to have on file;
      (13)   Mine operators may record their registration along with any city
approvals at the County Recorder’s office; and
      (14)   Non-conforming mine registration materials shall be provided to
the city’s Planning Commission for review and official acceptance and shall be
kept on file at City Hall documenting the legal non-conforming mine status.
   (C)   When no registration is provided, the city shall conduct a study,
gathering data indicated in division (B) above and other available information
making a final determination of the extent of the non- conformity based on its
own investigation. The city shall record and file the same with the County
Recorder.
(Prior Code, § 345.05)
§ 158.006 ANNUAL OPERATORS REPORT AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   An annual report of mining activities shall be submitted to the city
specifying:
      (1)   The amount of material removed from the mine site in the previous
year;
      (2)   The areas in which mining is complete and areas in which mining is
ongoing;
      (3)   Area of the mine which has been reclaimed or is ready to be
reclaimed;
      (4)   If mining into ground water, actual pumping rates and times, actual
ground water discharge locations and quantities;
      (5)   Ground water and surface water monitoring results;
      (6)   Restoration performed and restoration yet to be performed;
      (7)   Area proposed to be mined within the next year;
      (8)   Evidence the required bond and liability insurance is valid and
enforceable;
      (9)   Copies of all reports given to state or federal agencies within the
past year (including those for air and water quality monitoring) and any other
permits or approvals issued; and
      (10)   A log containing record of any grievances received by the
operation and how they were addressed.
   (B)   Upon receiving the annual report, the city shall have the right to
make an inspection.
(Prior Code, § 345.09)
§ 158.007 PERMITS; TRANSFER OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The city will transfer existing mining permits to new operators upon
request under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The new operator provides in writing that he or she will follow all
plans and conditions of the previously approved permit; and/or
      (2)   The new operator provides financial sureties to replace those of
the past operator. The existing financial assurance shall remain in effect
until the new operator’s financial assurance is approved.
(Prior Code, § 345.010)
   (B)   Corrective actions, fines and/or temporary or permanent revocation of
mining permit may be implemented by the city if the mining operation is non-
compliant with the terms of the permit.
(Prior Code, § 345.011)
MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR ALL MINES
§ 158.020 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   The following activities shall be prohibited at any mine:
   (A)   The use of any excavation or mining process that injects, applies or
uses any chemical or toxic substance, unless expressly permitted in the mining
permit. Approval with potential conditions shall be based on:
      (1)   Amount of toxic material being stored and used on site;
      (2)   Location and security of the storage of the toxic material;
      (3)   Level of toxicity of the material based on material safety data
sheets (MSDS1); and
      (4)   Proposed use of the material and its potential short- and long-term
nuisance to neighboring properties as well as to the local environment and to
the public health welfare and safety.
   (B)   The use of any excavation or mining process that includes hydraulic
dredging or similar process or method;
   (C)   The use or application of any flocculants or chemical to wash or
process excavated and mined industrial minerals at a mining site unless
processing is allowed per §
158.041 of this chapter; and
   (D)   The use or placement of previously mined, processed and/or
contaminated sand as fill material or reusing that sand at the mining site.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.021 ALLOWED MINE LOCATIONS.
   (A)   New mines are allowed to locate in any location of the city where
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances allows them as permitted, conditional or
interim uses with the issuance of a permit under this section.
   (B)   Existing mines (defined as “legal non-conforming” uses under
Ch. 162  of this code of ordinances) may continue to operate in their existing
location even when not permitted, conditional or interim in their zoning
district. However, they are not allowed to expand beyond the boundaries of the
parcel under which the mine has ownership, contract or lease at the time it
became non-conforming under this or other city ordinance, or change in the any
manner as indicated in §
158.003  of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.022 WATER RESOURCES.
   (A)   General. Pollution prevention measure shall be employed at the mine
operation including the following (depending on specific operations, which may
be made condition of permit approval):
      (1)   Confinement of equipment/vehicle maintenance activities indoors to
the greatest extent feasible;
      (2)   Confinement of outdoor fueling activities to designated areas to
the greatest extent possible that are covered, away from high traffic areas,
outside of drainage pathways and on impervious surfaces;
      (3)   Regularly cleaning of areas used for equipment/vehicle maintenance
and fueling using dry clean-up methods rather than wet (e.g., sweeping,
squeegee and dust pan);
      (4)   Use of drip pans under all vehicles and equipment awaiting
maintenance. Empty and clean drip pans and containers rather than leaving them
full;
      (5)   Proper disposal of liquid waste (including wash water), which shall
not be poured into floor drains, sinks, outdoor storm drain inlets or other
storm drain or sewer connections; and
      (6)   Avoidance of topping off fuel tanks.
   (B)   Surface water.
      (1)   The extraction pit/mine operation shall not be allowed to interfere
with surface water drainage beyond the boundaries of the operations property.
      (2)   The work done shall not adversely affect the quality of surface or
subsurface water resources in a negative manner. Surface water originating
outside and passing through the mining site shall, at its point of departure
from the site, be of equal or better quality than the water at the point where
it enters the site.
      (3)   The mining operation shall utilize best management practices
specific to pollution prevention so that storm water runoff does not come into
contact with any activities or materials of concern such as petroleum products,
fueling areas and the like.
      (4)   Engineered structures may be required for new or expanding mines or
suggested for any mine per the Minnesota Storm Water Manual and the Industrial
Storm Water BMP Guidebook.
   (C)   Ground water protection.
      (1)   Mining activity shall not be allowed if it reduces the use in terms
of quality or quantity of any neighboring domestic well.
      (2)   Prior to the establishment of new mines or the modification of an
existing mine (per §
158.003 of this chapter), the mine operator shall offer property owners with a
domestic well within one-half mile of the mining site an inspection of their
well and associated equipment and structures; evaluation of hydrologic
conditions and sampling of the well water for quality analysis to determine
baseline data. The neighboring property owner shall be given 30 days to respond
to the offer and to allow on-site work after receiving the offer. The mine
operator shall further offer these neighboring private well owners annual
sampling and water quality analysis. This work shall be performed by an
independent, credentialed third party at the expense of the operator. Samples
shall be analyzed by a certified laboratory. Analysis shall include all
chemicals and fuels used at the mine site that may impact ground water. In the
event that monitoring shows that mining or reclamation activities have caused
state or federal ground water quality standards to be exceeded, this
information shall be provided to the MPCA and the operator shall seek to
mitigate these effects by altering site operations and shall supply the well
owner with bottled water for drinking until testing indicates levels are to
pre-mining amounts. The reduction of quality of neighboring domestic wells
shall be one reason for revocation of the mining permit. The city may require
the permit holder to take corrective action in the event it is shown that the
contamination was caused by the operation.
      (3)   The import, storage or disposal of any solid waste, recyclable
materials or refuse generated outside the mine site is not allowed.
   (D)   Ground water use. Permits for well construction from the county and
for water appropriation from the state’s DNR shall be required and copies of
these shall be provided to the city. The use of ground water for any mining
activity shall not be allowed if it:
      (1)   Reduces water availability in existing domestic wells;
      (2)   Reduces water availability in municipal production wells; and
      (3)   Degrades calcareous fens, wetlands, ponds, lakes, streams, springs,
seeps and watercourses and/or other fish and wildlife habitat.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.023 SAFETY FENCING.
   Any operation adjacent to a residential zone, within 300 feet of two or more
residential structures, or within 30 feet of a public right-of-way shall be
bound by the following standards.
   (A)   Where collections of water occur that are one and one-half feet or
more in depth existing for any period of at least one month, and occupy an area
of 700 square feet or more, all access to the collections of water shall be
barred by a fence of at least four feet in height.
   (B)   In locations where slopes occur that are steeper than one foot
vertical to three feet horizontal existing for a period of one month or more,
access to the slopes shall be barred by a fence or some similar effective
barrier such as a snow fence at least four feet in height. Earthen berms also
may be constructed to prevent access to the steeper slopes.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.024 ACCESS ROADS.
   All access roads must meet city, county and/or state standards. The location
of the intersection of access roads with any public roads shall be selected
such that traffic on the access roads or public roads will have a sufficient
site and breaking distance and room enough for adequate turn radii. Sufficiency
shall be determined by the authority of the public road.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.025 DRIVEWAYS; ACCESS FOR SITES.
   (A)   Driveway/access to the mine site and/or ancillary uses shall not be
located within 25 feet of adjacent property boundaries.
   (B)   Driveway/access shall also receive applicable county/highway
department/state/federal approval with copies of the approvals provided to the
city.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.026 TRACKING PADS; PAVEMENT.
   The tracking pad/pavement shall be installed prior to site disturbance. Any
material that is tracked on to the public road system shall be cleaned up at
the end of the workday.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.027 SETBACKS.
   Mining operations shall not be conducted closer than 100 feet to the
boundary of any zone where such operations are not permitted, or closer than
100 feet to the boundary of an adjoining property line, unless the written
consent of the owner of the adjoining property is first secured in writing.
Mining operations shall not be conducted closer than 100 feet to the right-of-
way line of an existing or platted street, road or highway; except that,
excavating may be conducted closer to the right-of-way line in order to match
the contour of the existing or platted street, road or highway. The city may
impose greater setbacks as a condition of the mining or interim use permit when
there is a finding that this is required to protect adjoining property from
negative impact and in order to protect health, safety or welfare of the
general public. Additional setback requirements for bluff areas are contained
in §§
162.085 through
162.108 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.028 APPEARANCE GENERALLY.
   All buildings, structures and plants as allowed at the mining site shall be
maintained in such a manner as is practical and according to building code to
assure that the buildings, structures and plants will not become dangerously
dilapidated.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.029 SCREENING.
   The use of vegetation, fencing and/or berms may be required.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.030 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Hours of operation shall be set at the time of interim use or mining permit
approval and shall be based on (including, but not limited to):
   (A)   Distance and geographical situation between the mine and the closest
residences;
   (B)   Proposed traffic being generated from the mining operation; and
   (C)   Type and location of activity proposed at the mine which will create
noise or other nuisances or public health, safety or welfare concerns.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.031 LIGHTING.
   All lighting at the mine site shall be required to meet any adopted city
lighting standards (full cut off standards (downward lighting) of 80% maximum
per
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances or as amended, modified or replaced). More
intense lighting will be considered if needed to meet OSHA and/or MSHA safety
standards if there is a finding by the city that it will have no greater impact
on neighboring properties (in particular on adjacent residences) than the
baseline standard. Conditions of permit approval for such lighting may include
modifications to topography, vegetative planting, fencing or similar screening
techniques to block light from neighboring properties, roadways or other public
areas.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.032 INTERIOR ROADS.
   Interior roads, driveways and parking areas shall be arranged on site to
have the least amount of impact on neighboring properties in particularly those
with residences. Conditions for screening, lighting and hours of operation may
be imposed based on the proposed locations of the facilities and any other on-
site that may produce noise, light or air pollution.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.033 TOPSOIL MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Removal of on-site topsoil and topsoil substitute material removal,
when specified in the reclamation plan, shall be performed, prior to any mining
activity associated with any specific phase of the mining operation.
   (B)   (1)   The operator shall obtain the volume of soil required to perform
final reclamation by removal of on-site topsoil or topsoil substitute material
or by obtaining topsoil or substitute material as needed to make up the volume
of topsoil as specified in the reclamation plan approved pursuant to this
chapter.
      (2)   Once removed, topsoil or topsoil substitute material shall, as
required by the reclamation plan approved pursuant to this chapter, either be
used in contemporaneous reclamation or stored in an environmentally acceptable
manner. The location of stockpiled topsoil or topsoil substitute material shall
be chosen to protect the material from erosion or further disturbance or
contamination. Runoff water shall be diverted around all locations in which
topsoil or topsoil substitute material is stockpiled.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.034 INSPECTIONS.
   With the issuance of a mining permit, the city reserves the right to inspect
the mine site for compliance with this and other sections of city code and any
conditions issued as part of the permit. At city staff discretion, county,
state or federal authorities may be contacted to assist the city in determining
compliance to any local, state or federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.035 DUST CONTROL.
   Roadway and site dust control shall be required and may be accomplished via
methods approved by the city, which may include, but are not limited to,
berming, landscaping, watering, dust extraction equipment, wheel washing,
paving and the like. Operators shall be responsible for providing continuous
dust control during facility operation and during hauling activity on gravel
roads used to access the facility.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.036 AIR QUALITY MONITORING.
   All mining operations shall provide air monitoring based upon a plan for
such submitted, as required in §
158.004 of this chapter, and agreed upon with the city in the issuance of the
permit.
   (A)   This monitoring shall be performed by an independent, credentialed,
third party at the expense of the operator.
   (B)   The results from air monitoring will be submitted to the city on a
quarterly basis until the city deems under subsequent renewal permit review
that air quality monitoring is no longer required at the facility.
   (C)   Results of monitoring may be submitted to the state’s Pollution
Control Agency, the state’s Environmental Quality Board (or a technical team of
that board) and/or to a private consultant as chosen by the city for assistance
in the review of the results.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.037 SITE CLEARING.
   (A)   All topsoil, subsoil and overburden in areas of mining shall be
systematically and individually stripped and stockpiled for future use in
reclamation.
   (B)   Burning of stumps or any other material at the mine site is
prohibited. Woody material shall be ground or chipped and used in reclamation
activities, if possible.
   (C)   Removal of vegetative cover and the amount of exposed earth must be
kept to a minimum and be consistent with good construction practices.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.038 BLASTING AND USE OF EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Blasting logs shall be prepared by the mining operation and shall be
maintained for a period not less than five years after a blasting event.
   (B)   Copies of blasting logs shall be given to the LGU within five working
days upon request.
   (C)   Information to record in a blasting log includes:
      (1)   Name, signature and license number of the blaster in charge of the
blast;
      (2)   Specific blast location, including address, bench and station
number if applicable;
      (3)   Type of blasting operation;
      (4)   Date and time of the blast;
      (5)   Copy of information provided to the city prior to blasting, as
required in §
158.035 of this chapter;
      (6)   Meteorological conditions, including temperature inversions, wind
speed and directions as can be determined from the United States Weather Bureau
and ground-based observations;
      (7)   Diagram of the blast layout and the delay pattern;
      (8)   Number of holes;
      (9)   Hole depth and diameter;
      (10)   Spacing of holes;
      (11)   Burden;
      (12)   Maximum holes per delay;
      (13)   Maximum pounds of explosives per delay;
      (14)   Number, type and length of stemming used between decks;
      (15)   Total pounds and type of explosives per each delay;
      (16)   Distance to nearest inhabited building not owned by the applicant;
      (17)   Type of initiation used;
      (18)   Seismographic and airblast records, which shall include all of the
following:
         (a)   Type of instrument and last laboratory calibration date;
         (b)   Maps of the exact location of monitoring instrument(s);
         (c)   Records of the date, time and distance from the blast;
         (d)   Trigger levels for ground and air vibrations; and
         (e)   The vibration and airblast levels recorded.
      (19)   Particle velocity should be recorded in three mutually
perpendicular directions.
   (D)   In the event that seismograph monitoring exceeds standards identified
in either the blast plan or local permit, the company will notify the city
within one working day.
   (E)   The water resource management plan should address potential nitrate
contamination due to blasting.
   (F)   Whenever explosives are used, they shall be of such character and in
such amount as is permitted by state and local laws and ordinances and all
respective agencies having jurisdiction over them.
   (G)   The regulatory requirements of OSHA safety and health standards, 29
C.F.R. part 1926, subpart U, “Blasting and Use of Explosives”, shall be
applied.
   (H)   Operators will use all industry standard measures to control fly rock
with the intent that fly rock not leave the mine property.
   (I)   Prior to any blasting event at the excavation and mining site, the
mining operation is responsible for giving notice of the impending blasting
event by displaying a fluorescent flag and legible sign within 100 feet of all
public roads bordering the blasting site.
   (J)   Untreated ANFO should not be used in blastholes with standing water in
the bottom. Water- proof blasting agents such as emulsions or gels, developed
to prevent the release of nitrates into the ground water, should be used in
blastholes with standing water at the bottom.
   (K)   The maximum single component peak particle velocity resulting from
construction activity should not exceed the safe blasting criteria established
in Office of Surface Mining recommendations, OSM Alternative Blasting Level
Criteria (modified from Figure B1, R1 8507, U.S. Bureau of Mines). This
criteria allows a constant peak particle velocity (ppv) of 2.0 inches per sec
(ips) above 30 Hz. Below 30 Hz, the maximum velocity decreases at a rate
equivalent to a constant peak displacement of 0.01 inch to 11 Hz. Between 11 Hz
and 4 Hz the maximum velocity is 0.75 ips. Below 4 Hz, the maximum velocity
decreases at a rate equivalent to a constant peak displacement of 0.03 inch.
   (L)   Appropriate vibration levels shall be used where there is the presence
of fragile or extremely fragile historically significant buildings or sites.
The following table is to be used as a guideline but limits shall be determined
ultimately based on:
      (1)   Proximity of the resource to the blasting site and on site (ground
conditions) and the anticipated travel of damaging vibrations;
      (2)   The level of significance of a resource as determined by its
official listing on any federal, state or local register and as by the City
Council; and
      (3)   Level of protection afforded to the resource by its official
listing on any federal, state or local register.
 
                               Maximum PPV (in/sec)
Structure and Condition        Transient Sources Continuous/Frequent
                                                 Intermittent Sources
Extremely fragile historic     0.12              0.08
structures, ruins or monuments
Fragile buildings              0.2               0.1
 
   (M)   The mine operator shall provide a notification to all property owners
within a one-half mile of the mine site at least 15 days prior to blasting
activity occurring. A copy of the notification shall also be sent to the city
along with a list of those being sent the notification. For blasting
anticipated to occur for more than one day within a one-month period, one
notification with the anticipated dates will suffice. The notification shall
include:
      (1)   The date(s) or range of dates that blasting is anticipated to
occur;
      (2)   The contact information including a contact person, a phone number
and an address for questions to be addressed during business hours;
      (3)   An offer to property owners for a pre-blast survey which shall:
         (a)   Be performed by an independent, credentialed third party at the
expense of the operator;
         (b)   Consist of a record on paper, video or an unalterable electronic
file to document the condition of a dwelling, structure or water well before
the commencement of blasting activity; and
         (c)   Provide a record of inspection of the condition of a well and/or
structure including the interior and exterior as requested by the owner.
      (4)   A written statement that the survey must be requested in writing
which shall identify the structures and/or well to be surveyed; and
      (5)   A written statement indicating that all surveys completed will be
available upon request of the property owner within a 72-hour period after the
request is made.
   (N)   The City Engineer shall inspect, review and monitor all blasting
operations.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.039 INTERMITTENT MINING.
   Intermittent mining may be conducted provided that all other standards of
this chapter are followed and the possibility of intermittent cessation of
operations is addressed in an operator’s application for mining permit. This
shall also be accounted for in the reclamation plan. The city shall be given
72-hour notice prior to the cessation or resumption of activities.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.040 DIRECT IMPACT.
   Direct impact to any historic, archeological or culturally significant
resource shall not be allowed prior to providing proposed activity by the
state’s Historic Preservation Office and the city’s Heritage Preservation
Commission and allowing for their response.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.041 PROCESSING AT MINE SITE.
   Unless the site is eligible under
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances for heavy industry (which shall require any
additional permits for this activity within the zoning district the mine is
located), processing at the mine site shall be limited to the following:
   (A)   Scalping, the first cut of the incoming material including removing
the largest size particles, cleaning the incoming material from foreign body
contamination such as twigs, trash, glass or other unwanted oversize material;
   (B)   Separation of product into different rock sizes, gravel and general
sand category;
   (C)   No fine screening for separation of sand into different
classifications (for hardness/shape) shall be permitted;
   (D)   Use of water for washing shall be limited to 250,000 gallons per day
(g.p.d.);
   (E)   Crushing for new or expanded operations shall be limited to 150,000
tons per year;
   (F)   No use of chemicals in the processing, cleaning or separating of
aggregate materials is allowed; and
   (G)   Any processing of minerals shall not be conducted closer than 100 feet
to the property line, nor closer than 500 feet, to any residential or
commercial structures located prior to commencement of processing operations
without the written consent of all owners and residents of the structures for
any new or expanded operation.
      (1)   The city may impose greater setbacks as a condition of the mining
or interim use permit when there is a finding that this is required to protect
adjoining property from negative impact and in order to protect health, safety
or welfare of the general public.
      (2)   Additional setback requirements for bluff areas are contained in §§
162.085 through
162.108 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.042 ROAD MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   All new or expanded mining operators will be required to enter into
road maintenance agreements with the governing road authority if agreed to by
the specific authority.
   (B)   The road maintenance agreement will provide for:
      (1)   A round-trip hauling route for the shipping of non-metallic
minerals from the excavation or mining site to a targeted delivery location,
including the estimated number of tons to be hauled per truck and estimated
number of tons hauled per month;
      (2)   Mining operator’s agreement to pay a road pavement impact fee as
decided by the local government, which will be assessed on a per ton, per mile
basis to reimburse the local government for the projected costs of repairing
and replacing road pavement damaged by the hauling of non-metallic minerals
from an excavation or mining site. The fee established at the time of
application will be reviewed every two years; and
      (3)   All fees collected will be placed in a fund administered by the
road authority, dedicated to the sole purpose of maintaining, repairing and
replacing roads.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
§ 158.043 RECLAMATION; COSTS.
   (A)   Along with a plan for reclamation required as part of an application
for all mines, applicants shall submit, as part of the application for a permit
to mine, a documented estimate of costs necessary to implement the reclamation
plan (consistent with Minn. Rules part 6132.1300, subpart 4). This estimate
shall include closure and post-closure maintenance activities required if
operations cease within the first calendar year.
   (B)   The permittee shall annually adjust the contingency reclamation cost
estimate.
   (C)   Cost estimates shall be based on the following:
      (1)   Current dollar value at the time of the estimate; and
      (2)   The cost to the city of administering and hiring a third party to
implement the contingency reclamation plan.
   (D)   No salvage value attributed to the sale of wastes, facility
structures, equipment, land or other assets shall be used for estimating
purposes.
(Prior Code, § 345.06)
RECLAMATION STANDARDS
§ 158.055 GENERAL.
   All sites shall be reclaimed after operations cease. The city may require
the assistance in design and or review of reclamation plans of a credentialed
consultant at the expense of the mine operator.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.056 COMPLETION; TERMINATION.
   The following standards shall apply along with any additional or more
stringent standards adopted under subsequent state law.
   (A)   Reclamation for each cell shall be completed within one calendar year
after operation ceases.
   (B)   Within a period of three months after the termination of a operation,
or within three months after abandonment of the operation for a period of six
months, or within three months after expiration of a permit, all buildings,
structures and plans incidental to the operation shall be dismantled and
removed by, and at the expense of, the mining operator last operating the
buildings, structures and plants.
   (C)   At least four months prior to the commencement of reclamation, the
operator shall notify the city of its intent to commence reclamation. A
preconstruction meeting shall be held at which the mine operator and the on-
site reclamation construction supervisor shall attend to review the terms and
conditions of the mining permit.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.057 TOPSOIL REDISTRIBUTION.
   All uncontaminated soil from the site shall be retained on-site for
reclamation purposes. Topsoil or topsoil substitute material shall be
redistributed in accordance with the reclamation plan approved pursuant to this
chapter in a manner which minimizes compacting and prevents erosion. Topsoil or
topsoil substitute material shall be uniformly redistributed, except where
uniform redistribution is undesirable or impractical. Topsoil or topsoil
substitute material redistribution may not be performed during or immediately
after a precipitation event until the soils have sufficiently dried.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.058 END LAND USE.
   (A)   Use of reclaimed land shall be appropriate to interim and final
reclamation plan for the site and to the city’s adopted land use policies and
maps.
   (B)   The reclamation plan shall address final drainage and storm water
plans, final topography indicating appropriate spaces for buildings, roads or
other necessary infrastructure per intended proposed use and anticipated soil
fertility for any proposed farming operations.
   (C)   Development of final uses may occur on the site as reclamation phasing
occurs, but shall be identified and addressed in reclamation plan phasing.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.059 FINAL GRADING AND SLOPES.
   (A)   (1)   All areas directly affected by mining shall be addressed in the
approved reclamation plan to provide that a stable and safe condition
consistent with the post-mining land use is achieved. The reclamation plan may
designate high walls or other unmined and undisturbed natural solid bedrock as
stable and safe and not in need of reclamation or designate other areas
affected by mining including slopes comprised of unconsolidated materials that
exceed a three to one (3:1) slope, whether or not graded, as stable and safe.
For slopes designated as stable under this section, the city may require that a
site-specific engineering analysis be performed by a registered professional
engineer to demonstrate that an acceptable slope stability factor is attainable
at a steeper slope.
      (2)   Final reclaimed slopes covered by topsoil or topsoil substitute
material may not be steeper than a four to one (4:1) horizontal to vertical
incline, unless recommended by on site-specific engineering analysis performed
by a registered professional engineer. All areas in the extraction pit site
where topsoil or topsoil substitute material is to be reapplied shall be graded
or otherwise prepared prior to topsoil or topsoil substitute material
redistribution to provide the optimum adherence between the topsoil or topsoil
substitute material and the underlying material.
   (B)   If the approved post-mining land use includes a body of water, the
approved final grade at the edge of a body of water shall be a slope no steeper
than six to one (6:1).
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.060 VEGETATION; REVEGETATION.
   (A)   (1)   The plan for revegetation should include a mix of grass basal
cover, native vegetation cover and rock cover, similar in type, diversity and
percentage mix and location to pre-mining situation.
      (2)   Use of fast-growing vegetation to stabilize slopes is appropriate.
      (3)   Use of invasive species shall not be allowed in revegetation and
the plan shall address the how invasive species will be managed during the
operation of the mine.
   (B)   Revegetation success may be determined by:
      (1)   Comparison to an appropriate reference area;
      (2)   Comparison to baseline data acquired at the mining site prior to
its being affected by mining; or
      (3)   Comparison to an approved alternate technical standard.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.061 WATER.
   The reclamation plan shall identify final surface and ground water
conditions and no reclamation shall be conducted in a manner which will cause a
permanent lowering of the water table or result in adverse effects on surface
waters or reduce the quality of ground water reasonably available for future
users of ground water.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.062 ASSESSING COMPLETION OF SUCCESSFUL RECLAMATION.
   (A)   The criteria for assessing when reclamation is complete shall be
specified in the reclamation plan approved pursuant to this chapter. Criteria
to evaluate reclamation success shall be quantifiable.
   (B)   Compliance with the revegetation success standards in the approved
reclamation plan shall be determined by:
      (1)   On-site inspections by the city or its agent and/or the MN DNR; and
      (2)   Reports presenting results obtained during reclamation evaluations
including summarized data on revegetation, photo documentation or other
evidence that the reclamation plan criteria have been met.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.063 RETURN TO PRE-EXISTING CONDITION.
   In those cases where the post mining land use specified in the reclamation
plan requires a return of the mining site to a pre-existing condition, the
operator shall obtain baseline data on the existing plant community for use in
the evaluation of reclamation success pursuant to this section.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.064 MAINTENANCE.
   During the period of the site reclamation, the operator shall perform any
maintenance necessary to prevent erosion, sedimentation or environmental
pollution, comply with the standards of this subchapter, or to meet the goals
specified in the reclamation plan approved pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
SUBSURFACE MINERAL EXPLORATION
§ 158.075 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   Exploration of natural resources can have a serious effect on
land and the ground water below.
      (2)   It is the intention of this subchapter to monitor any exploratory
activity.
   (B)   Remote sensing/exploration that does not disturb any soil do not
require a mining permit.
(Prior Code, § 345.08)
§ 158.076 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   All subsurface mineral exploration borings shall require a permit in
all zoning districts and shall only be allowed in zoning districts where the
potential mining activity is allowed as a permitted, conditional or interim
use.
   (B)   The following information shall be required to be submitted by the
applicant as part of the permit for exploratory borings if any of the following
criteria is met.
      (1)   The drill hole will intercept a water bearing layer.
      (2)   The drill hole will be either deeper than 25 feet or penetrate a
confining layer.
      (3)   The drill hole will be used for testing without extracting water.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.077 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The following shall be submitted:
   (A)   Individuals or organizations wishing to undertake mineral exploration
in the city must provide sufficient proof to the city, legal authority to
explore and/or mine the property;
   (B)   A description of the mineral or minerals which are the subject of the
exploration;
   (C)   A copy of the lease arrangement with the land owner shall be provided.
This lease shall be recorded in the County Recorder’s office prior to granting
the permit. The time limit and the location of the permit shall be incidental
to that of the lease arrangement;
   (D)   A map indicating the location of the proposed exploratory boring(s);
   (E)   The applicant shall post a surety performance bond in an amount of
110% of cost of installation per hole to assure that sufficient funds will be
available to carry out required reclamation and, if necessary, decontamination
of affected ground water and surface water. The bond shall be released two
years after exploration has ceased unless the city finds, for good cause shown,
that the water quality of the affected area has not been restored or the
reclamation plan has not been completed;
   (F)   An exact, technical description of the exploration process, types of
equipment to be used and an estimated timetable for each phase of work and for
final completion of the program;
   (G)   A general description of the regional environmental conditions to
include surface land use and vegetation, as well as a general description of
the area’s geological formations and hydrology;
   (H)   A description of the major environmental impacts that exploration will
create as well as a proposed plan to mitigate those impacts including such
items as soil erosion, air and water contamination, as well as related hazards
to public life and safety; and
   (I)   A plan shall be provided for the reclamation of the land after
exploration is completed. Surface reclamation shall take into account the
impact on adjacent land uses, natural resources and the proposed future use of
the lands explored. The plans shall include:
      (1)   A reclamation schedule;
      (2)   Method used to plug drill holes which must meet state standards;
      (3)   Method of grading, backfilling and contouring of exploration sites
and access roads;
      (4)   Methods of waste management and disposal, including liquid and
solid wastes such as tailings; and
      (5)   Method of revegetation.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.078 EXPLORATORY BORING CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   All test borings shall be constructed in accordance with the following and
shall be constructed in a manner as to prevent all known sources of
contamination from entering the boring at any time.
   (A)   Drilling mud additives shall be stored in clean containers and shall
be free of material that may adversely affect the aquifer.
   (B)   Water used for cooling parts of engines, air compressors or other
equipment may not be returned into the boring.
   (C)   Drilling mud, cuttings and discharge water shall not be disposed of in
a manner so as to create damage to public or private property.
   (D)   Exploratory borings encountering flowing artesian conditions should be
constructed to prevent erosion of the aquifer or the overlying confining
mantle.
   (E)   Any boring which encounters a karst feature shall be cased and grouted
to prevent the introduction of surface water into the ground water and to
prevent the passage of water from one aquifer to another.
   (F)   In the case of an unexpected emergency, including, but not limited to,
any act or condition that would affect the health, welfare and property of area
residents, the explorer shall have the ability to cap the boring at any time.
In this instance the explorer shall immediately notify the city and proper
state agencies of such an emergency. In case of such an emergency, all costs
shall be borne by the explorer.
   (G)   A boring for aggregate exploration must not be used for any purpose
that is regulated under M.S. Ch. 103I, as it may be amended from time to time,
and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725 or 4727, unless that well or boring is constructed in
accordance with all applicable requirements of statute and rule, including
licensing, notification, permitting, construction, sealing, testing and
reporting requirements. Wells and borings regulated under state statute and
rule include water supply wells, dewatering wells, monitoring wells, bored
geothermal heat exchangers, elevator borings, environmental bore holes and
exploratory borings, as defined in Minn. Rules Ch. 4727.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.079 EXPLORATORY BORING SETBACKS.
   The following setbacks shall be applicable to exploratory drilling sites:
   (A)   Required setbacks from road centerline:
      (1)   One hundred thirty feet for state highways;
      (2)   One hundred feet for county and state aid roads; and
      (3)   Sixty-five feet for city streets.
   (B)   Two hundred feet to adjoining property line;
   (C)   Five hundred feet to nearest occupied residence;
   (D)   One hundred feet to any overhead or underground electrical line;
   (E)   One hundred and fifty feet to any gas line;
   (F)   One hundred and fifty feet to a preparation or storage area of spray
materials, commercial fertilizers or chemicals that may result in pollution of
the soil or ground water;
   (G)   One hundred feet from a below grade manure storage area if in
conformance with the state’s Pollution Control Agency;
   (H)   One hundred feet from a buried sewer, septic tank, subsurface disposal
field or privy;
   (I)   Two hundred feet from existing water wells; and
   (J)   Two hundred feet from any lake, stream or river.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.080 ABANDONMENT OF EXPLORATORY BORINGS.
   (A)   Abandonment of all exploratory borings shall be carried out in
accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   Abandonment, whether temporary or permanent, shall be undertaken
immediately upon completion of drilling activities. When the test hole is to be
abandoned, the city shall be notified so that the abandonment process may be
inspected.
      (2)   Within 30 days of the completion of drilling or the drilling
equipment leaving the site, whichever occurs first, an abandonment report shall
be completed by the explorer, and filed with the city. The report shall
include, but not be limited to, such things as water bearing formations
encountered, method of construction used and method of abandonment. The
abandonment report shall specify whether the boring is being temporary or
permanently abandoned.
   (B)   A boring which is temporarily abandoned shall be constructed to
prevent the introduction of surface contaminants into the boring and to prevent
passage of water from one aquifer to another.
      (1)   At the minimum, a temporary abandoned boring shall be cased from
bedrock or from the bottom of the boring if the boring terminates in
unconsolidated materials, to a point one foot above the ground surface or, if
in a floodplain, at least two feet above the level of the highest flood of
record. The casing shall be protected with an overlapping can which will
prevent any surface contamination from entering the boring.
      (2)   Any boring which is temporarily abandoned shall be marked and
protected with four steel posts (schedule 40 pipe) of at least four-inch
diameter at equal distance from each other, two feet from the center of the
casing. Such posts shall be installed to a minimum depth of three feet into
solid ground.
      (3)   A boring shall not be temporarily abandoned for more than two
years.
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the explorer determines that a boring needs not remain
open any longer, or whenever the explorer is about to lose the right to
explore, the explorer shall permanently abandon the boring. The boring shall be
filled with grout to prevent contaminating materials from entering the water
bearing ground formations.
      (2)   All materials, debris and obstructions that may interfere with
sealing operations shall be removed from the boring.
      (3)   All casing and screen may be salvaged, except for casing that has
been cemented in place.
      (4)   The top of the hole shall be fitted with ten feet of cement or
concrete grout to within two feet of the land surface. Casing remaining in the
hole shall be cut off at least six feet below the land surface. The remaining
two feet of the hole shall be filled with native topsoil.
      (5)   When concrete or cement is used as a grout material, it shall be
inserted in the boring through a grout pipe from the bottom of the boring
upward to the surface under pressure.
      (6)   A permanently abandoned boring shall be filled and sealed using one
or more of the following substances in accordance with geological materials
penetrated.
         (a)   The section of a boring in unconsolidated deposits shall be
filled with neat cement, concrete or heavy drilling fluid to provide a
permeability no greater than the natural condition.
         (b)   The section of a boring in a rock formation shall be filled with
neat cement or concrete.
         (c)   The section of a boring in a cavernous or crevice rock such as
cavernous limestone or creviced granite shall be filled with concrete or neat
cement and gravel or stone aggregate. At the top of cavernous or creviced
formation, the filling shall be completed by a layer of neat cement or concrete
extending at least ten feet into the above overlying formation and finished as
provided in those rules.
         (d)   When a temporarily abandoned boring is permanently abandoned, a
separate abandonment report shall be filed.
(Prior Code, § 345.07)
§ 158.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both. Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
separate offense. The city reserves the right to seek injunctive relief in
addition to the criminal penalties set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 345.012)
CHAPTER 159: HERITAGE PRESERVATION
Section
General Provisions
   
159.01   Public policy and purpose
   
159.02   Definitions
   
159.03   Designation of heritage preservation
   
159.04   Review of construction and demolition activity
   
159.05   Additional powers
   
159.06   Filing documents
   
159.07   Recording sites
Heritage Preservation Commission
   
159.20   Membership
   
159.21   Term
   
159.22   Membership compensation
   
159.23   Reserved
   
159.24   Organization
   
159.25   Records
 
   
159.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.01 PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Council of the city hereby declares as a matter of public policy
that the preservation, protection, perpetuation and use of areas, places,
buildings, structures, lands, districts and other objects having a special
historical, cultural or aesthetic interest or value is a public necessity, and
is required in the interest of public health, prosperity, safety and welfare of
the people of the city.
   (B)   The purposes of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving sites and
structures which reflect elements of the city’s cultural, social, economic,
political, engineering or architectural history;
      (2)   Protect and enhance the city’s attractions to residents, tourists
and visitors, and serve as a support and stimulus to business and industry;
      (3)   Enhance the economic viability of heritage preservation landmarks
and districts through the protection and promotion of their unique character;
      (4)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and interest
of the city;
      (5)   Foster civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments of the
past; and
      (6)   Promote the use and preservation of historic landmarks and
districts for the educational and general welfare of the people of the city.
(Prior Code, § 315.01) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HERITAGE PRESERVATION DISTRICT. A contiguous collection or group of lands,
parcels, sites, structures, buildings or objects that is determined to be
historically, culturally or architecturally significant as a whole and has been
locally designated as a Heritage Preservation District, pursuant to §
159.03 of this chapter.
   HERITAGE PRESERVATION GUIDELINES. The established criteria by which any
proposed changes, including architectural or site modifications, shall be
judged.
   HERITAGE PRESERVATION LANDMARK. Any individual property, parcel, place,
building, structure, work of art or other object that has been determined to be
historically, culturally or architecturally significant and has been locally
designated as a heritage preservation landmark pursuant to §
159.03 of this chapter.
   NATIONAL REGISTER OF HISTORIC PLACES. The nation’s official list of
properties worthy of preservation designated by the United States Department of
the Interior, National Park Service. Nominations of properties within the state
to this list are made through the auspices of the state’s Historic Preservation
Officer, State Historical Society.
(Prior Code, § 315.03) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.03 DESIGNATION OF HERITAGE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Report. Prior to recommending a landmark or district to the City
Council for designation, amending a designated landmark or district or
nominating a landmark or district to the National Register of Historic Places,
an investigation and report on the historical, cultural and architectural
significance of the buildings, structures, sites or objects proposed for
designation shall be made. The report shall also attempt to determine the
economic status of the property or properties by providing such information as
assessed value, recent real estate transactions and other appropriate data.
   (B)   Criteria for designation. The Commission shall recommend heritage
preservation landmarks and districts only when the property or properties are
found to meet at least one of the following criteria:
      (1)   It has character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, state or the United States;
      (2)   Its location was a site of a significant historical event;
      (3)   It is identified with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture or development of the city, state or the United
States;
      (4)   It embodies a distinguishing characteristic of an architectural
type;
      (5)   It is identified as the work of an architect or master builder
whose individual work has influenced the development of the city or state;
      (6)   It embodies elements of architectural design, detail, materials or
craftsmanship which represents significant architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship which represents significant architectural
innovation; and
      (7)   Its unique location or singular physical characteristics represents
an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, community or the
city as a whole.
   (C)   Planning Commission review. The Commission shall receive the comments
of the city’s Zoning and Planning Commission regarding any proposed heritage
preservation district or landmark prior to forwarding its recommendation, the
city’s Zoning and Planning Commission shall consider any such designation’s
potential effects on the surrounding neighborhood, economics, environment and
other planning considerations. The comments shall be come part of the official
record and be submitted as part of the Commission’s report to the Mayor and
City Council.
   (D)   Communication with the state’s Historical Society. A copy of the
Commission’s report on any proposed designation for heritage preservation
landmark or district, including boundaries, shall be sent to the state’s
Historic Preservation Officer for review and comment in accordance with M.S. §
471.193, subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. The maximum review
period for the state is 60 days. Any comments made by the state’s Historic
Preservation Officer regarding a proposed designation must be received and
forwarded to the City Council prior to final designation.
   (E)   Heritage Preservation Commission hearings.
      (1)   Prior to the Commission recommending to the Mayor and City Council
any heritage preservation landmark or district, the Commission shall hold a
public hearing and seek the recommendation of all concerned citizens.
      (2)   Prior to the hearing, the Commission shall cause to be published in
the official newspaper of the city notice of the hearing at least ten days
prior to the date of the hearing, and notice of the hearing shall be sent to
all owners listed on the current City Assessor’s records of property proposed
to be designated a heritage preservation landmark or district.
   (F)   Communication with the City Council. If the Commission recommends to
the City Council that a landmark or district be designated for heritage
preservation, the Commission shall transmit to the City Council a complete
report on the recommended heritage preservation landmark or district. The
communication shall include the initial investigative report, comments made by
the Zoning and Planning Commission, required comments by the state’s Historic
Preservation Officer and the proposed heritage preservation guidelines.
   (G)   Council designation. The City Council may by ordinance designate a
heritage preservation landmark or district. Prior to the designation, the City
Council shall hold a public hearing, notice of which shall have been published
in the official newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the day of the
hearings, and the notice of the hearing shall be sent to the owners of all
property proposed to be designated as a heritage preservation landmark or
district.
   (H)   Historic Preservation District. Pursuant to § 158.04 of this chapter,
the following described property located in the city is hereby designated as a
Heritage Preservation District: commencing at a point of the intersection of
the centerline of Main Street and the centerline of Pembroke Avenue; thence
northerly along the centerline to the intersection of the line with the eastern
extension of the north line of Lot 12, Block 6; thence westerly along northern
lines of Lots 12, 11, 10 and 9, Block 6 to the northwest corner of Lot 9;
thence northerly 12.5 feet along the eastern line of Lot 5, Block 6; thence
westerly 38 feet along a line parallel to the southern line of Lot 5, Block 6;
thence northerly three and one-half feet along a line parallel to the western
line of Lot 5, Block 6; thence westerly 62 feet along a line parallel to the
southern line of Lot 6, Block 6 to the eastern edge of Lot 1, Block 5; thence
southerly 8.43 feet along the eastern edge of Lot 1, Block 5; thence westerly
along a line parallel with the southerly line of Lot 1, Block 5 to the western
line of Lot 1, Block 5; thence southerly along the western edge of Lot 1, Block
5 to the southwest corner of Lot 1, Block 5; thence westerly along the northern
edge of Lots 11, 10, 9, 8 and 7, Block 5 and Lots 12, 11, 10, 9, 8 and 7, Block
4 to the intersection of the line with the centerline of Bridge Avenue; thence
southerly along the centerline of Bridge Avenue to the intersection of the
centerline with the westerly extension of the centerline of the alley in Block
13; thence easterly along centerline of the alley to a point at the
intersection of the line with the northerly extension of the easterly line of
Lot 9, Block 11; thence southerly along the lot line to the intersection of the
intersection of the line with the centerline of Second Street; thence easterly
along the centerline to the intersection of the line with the southerly
extension of the east line of Lot 7, Block 10; thence northerly along the lot
line to the intersection of the line with the center of the alley of Block 10;
thence easterly along center of alley 72 feet; thence northerly along a line
parallel to and 18 feet east of the western line of Lot 2, Block 10 to the
intersection of the line with the centerline of Main Street; thence westerly
along the centerline to the beginning.
(Prior Code, § 315.07) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.04 REVIEW OF CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION ACTIVITY.
   (A)   Type of activity. The Commission shall review and approve or
disapprove of construction and demolition activities, including all street and
utility activities, within any heritage preservation landmark or district. In
addition, the Commission shall review and approve or disapprove any of the
following activities in a heritage preservation landmark or district in the
city:
      (1)   Remodel, repair or alteration (including rehabilitation or
restoration) to a property which in any manner will change the exterior
appearance;
      (2)   New construction, including parking facilities;
      (3)   Relocating a building;
      (4)   Change the nature or appearance of a designated heritage
preservation landmark or district, including landscape features; and
      (5)   Demolition.
   (B)   Application process. Every application for any type of activity, as
described in division (A) above, in relation to a property designated as a
heritage preservation landmark or district in the city shall be accompanied by
detailed plans for the proposed work to be done. A copy of the design review
application and plans submitted therewith shall be immediately referred to the
Commission by the Historic Officer appointed by the City Council. Building
permits shall not be issued in regard to an application until written approval
is received from the Commission, subject, however, to divisions (C), (E) and
(F) below.
   (C)   Commission review.
      (1)   The Commission, upon receipt of the application for design review,
shall determine if the work to be performed would adversely affect the heritage
preservation landmark or district based on the adopted heritage preservation
guidelines per §
159.05(F) of this chapter. Upon determination of project approval or denial,
the Commission shall notify the applicant in writing. The Commission may, by
rule, delegate to a subcommittee of the Commission its power to review and
approve permit applications. If the subcommittee determines that the work to be
performed pursuant to the permit application complies with the adopted heritage
preservation guidelines, the application shall be approved and the Historic
Officer shall be notified in writing.
      (2)   If the application is not approved, the full Commission shall
conduct a public hearing for the purpose of determining whether the work to be
performed adversely impacts the heritage preservation landmark or district.
Notice of the public hearing shall have been published in the official
newspaper of the city and sent to the permit applicant at least ten days prior
to the date of the hearing. The Commission shall review the application and
such plans as were submitted therewith and, after receiving comments from
concerned citizens, shall render its decision thereon as a written order to the
Historic Officer and the Building Inspector. The Historic Officer shall not
issue any required permits until after the ten-day appeal period, as provided
for in division (H) below. In the case of a denial, the Commission shall
furnish the applicant with a copy of the Commission’s written order and
decision, together with a copy of any recommendations for changes necessary to
be made before the Commission will reconsider the applicant’s permit
application.
   (D)   Findings. All decisions of the Commission with respect to this section
shall be based on explicit findings which are in accordance with the adopted
heritage preservation guidelines for each individual heritage preservation
landmark or district and the Secretary of the Interior’s standards for historic
preservation projects.
   (E)   Appeal to City Council. The Commission, in any written order denying
an application, shall advise the applicant of his or her right to appeal to the
City Council, and shall include this paragraph in all such orders. The
applicant or any party aggrieved by the decision of the Commission shall,
within ten days of the date of the Commission’s written order and decision,
have a right to appeal the order and decision to the City Council. The appeal
shall be addressed to the City Council and submitted to the Historic Officer.
Two copies of a notice of appeal and statement of reasons setting forth the
grounds for the appeal shall be submitted by the appealing party. The Historic
Officer shall transmit one copy of the notice of appeal and statement to the
City Council and one copy to the Heritage Preservation Commission. The City
Council may modify or over rule the Commission’s decision, but only if the
project is found to be consistent with the U.S. Secretary of Interior’s
standards for historic preservation projects.
   (F)   Limitations. If, within 60 days of receipt of the application by the
Commission, it has neither approved, nor denied, the building permit
application, the plans and permit application shall be deemed to have been
approved by the Commission; and, if all other requirements of the city have
been met, the Historic Officer shall authorize a permit for the proposed work.
No permit shall be issued and no work shall be commenced in the event the
Commission disapproves the application in accordance with this chapter.
   (G)   Emergency repair. In emergency situations where immediate repair is
needed to protect the safety of the structure and its inhabitants, the Historic
Officer may without Commission action, approve the repair of only those items
needed to ensure safety. The repairs shall be limited to those necessary to
correct the safety emergency. In the case of a permit issued pursuant to this
section, the Historic Officer shall require that the repairs be made in
conformance with the U.S. Secretary of Interior’s standards for historic
preservation projects and adopted heritage preservation guidelines for the
landmark or district to the extent possible; and a copy of the permit issued
shall be given to the Building Inspector. In addition, the Historic Officer
shall immediately notify the Heritage Preservation Commission of the action and
specify the facts or conditions constituting the emergency situation.
   (H)   Building Code enforcement. One purpose of this section is to encourage
the sensitive rehabilitation, restoration, stabilization and/or preservation of
historic buildings throughout the city. These rehabilitation and preservation
efforts should provide for the upgrading and maintenance of the safety features
of the building or structure to provide a practical level of safety to the
public and surrounding properties. While ensuring this increased level of
public safety, the enforcement authorities are encouraged to be open to
acceptable alternative solutions and alternative compliance concepts, where
practical, that will permit the continued use of existing buildings and
structures without creating overly restrictive financial burdens on owners or
occupants. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the ordinary
maintenance or repair of any exterior elements of any building or structure
required by city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 315.09) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.05 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties, in addition to
those otherwise specified in this chapter.
   (A)   The Commission shall conduct a continuing survey of all areas, places,
buildings, structures or similar objects in the city, which the Commission, on
the basis of information available or presented to it, has reason to believe
are or will be eligible for designation as heritage preservation landmarks or
districts.
   (B)   The Commission shall work for the continuing education of the citizens
of the city with respect to the historic and architectural heritage of the
city. It shall keep current and public an official list of designated heritage
preservation landmarks and districts and shall maintain a map of all properties
and areas designated by the City Council as heritage preservation districts or
landmarks, which shall be kept at City Hall and be available to the public.
   (C)   The Commission, upon obtaining Council approval, may retain the
services, on a permanent or part-time basis of technical experts and other
persons as may be required to perform the Commission’s duties.
   (D)   The Commission may recommend to the City Council, after review and
comment by the city’s Zoning and Planning Commission, that certain properties
eligible for designation as heritage preservation landmarks or districts be
acquired by gift, by negotiation or other legal means.
   (E)   The Commission shall have authority to solicit gifts and contributions
to be made to the city and to assist in the preparation of applications for
grant funds to be made to the city for the purpose of heritage preservation.
   (F)   Upon final designation of a heritage preservation landmark or district
by the Mayor and City Council, the Commission shall adopt heritage preservation
guidelines specific to the landmark or district. The guidelines shall detail
allowable architectural and/or site modifications, essential features to be
retained and any other criteria by which future proposals for modifications
shall be judged. These guidelines are intended to provide assurance to owners
of properties within heritage preservation landmarks or districts that the
design review process, per §
159.04 of this chapter, will be based on clear and objective standards rather
than the taste of individual Commission members and shall be in conformance
with the Secretary of Interior’s standards for historic preservation projects.
   (G)   The Commission may nominate a heritage preservation landmark or
district to the National Register of Historic Places, but only with the consent
of the Mayor and the City Council.
   (H)   The Commission shall make an annual report to the state’s Historic
Preservation Officer by October 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 315.11) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.06 FILING DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   The office of the City Clerk shall keep at least one copy of all
studies, reports, recommendations, decisions and heritage preservation
guidelines developed by the Commission and City Council. In addition, the Clerk
shall distribute an official list of all locally designated heritage
preservation landmarks and districts to the Historic Officer, the Building
Inspector and the state’s Historic Preservation Officer. The Clerk shall also
provide the Historic Officer and the Building Inspector an up-to-date copy of
the U.S. Secretary of Interior’s standards for historic preservation projects.
   (B)   The Heritage Preservation Commission is designated as the repository
for at least one copy of all plans and reports required under §§
159.03 ,
159.04  and
159.05  of this chapter. This information shall be available to the public at
the City Hall for inspection during normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 315.17) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.07 RECORDING SITES.
   The City Clerk shall record or file with the County Recorder the legal
description of all properties designated as heritage preservation landmarks or
districts by the city and shall transmit a copy of the legal description to the
Historic Officer.
(Prior Code, § 315.19) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION
§ 159.20 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   Pursuant to M.S. § 471.193, as it may be amended from time to time,
there is hereby created and established a City Heritage Preservation
Commission, hereinafter called the “Commission”. The Commission shall have the
responsibility of recommending to the City Council the adoption of ordinances
designating areas, places, building structures, works of art or other objects
having special historical, cultural or architectural interest for the community
as heritage preservation landmarks or districts.
   (B)   The Commission shall consist of seven voting members, all of whom are
to be citizens of the city appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Council. Members shall be persons who have demonstrated an interest in the
historical, cultural or architectural development of the city. One member shall
be a member of the county’s Historical Society. When the persons are available,
it is the duty of the Mayor and Council to appoint members with professional
experience in one or more of the following area:
      (1)   The management or sale of real estate;
      (2)   The structural planning or design of buildings or homes; and
      (3)   The preservation of landmarks or Historic Districts.
(Prior Code, § 315.05) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005; Ord. passed 4-1-2025)
§ 159.21 TERM.
   (A)   Of the seven Commission members initially appointed by the Mayor,
three appointees will serve a term of two years and four appointees will serve
a term of three years. All other and subsequent appointments shall be for a
term of three years.
   (B)   In the event of a vacancy, the vacancy for the unexpired term shall be
filled in the same manner as the appointment was originally made.
(Prior Code, § 315.05) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005; Ord. passed 4-1-2025)
§ 159.22 MEMBERSHIP COMPENSATION.
   Members will not receive a salary for their services, but will be
compensated for any expenses incurred in the performances of their duties.
(Prior Code, § 315.05) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.23 RESERVED.
§ 159.24 ORGANIZATION.
   The Commission, when formed, shall select from among its members such
officers as it may deem necessary. The Commission shall have the power to
designate and appoint from its members various committees with powers and
duties equivalent to and not inconsistent with the powers and duties of the
Commission. The Commission shall make such rules and regulations as it may deem
advisable and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, for the purpose of
carrying out the intent of this chapter, which are not inconsistent with the
laws of the city and the state. The Commission shall make an annual report,
containing a statement of its activities. The city shall provide the Commission
with staff to perform the duties prescribed under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 315.05) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.25 RECORDS.
   Minutes shall be kept of all meetings and all records and meetings of the
Heritage Preservation Commission shall be open to the public. Archives of the
minutes shall be kept pursuant to M.S. § 138.17, as it may be amended from time
to time.
(Prior Code, § 315.05) (Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
§ 159.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   An owner or occupant of any area, place, building, structure or other
object within a locally designated heritage preservation landmark or district
who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of not more than $700 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both. Any person or corporation who assists in the commission of a
violation of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day an owner
or occupant of any area, place, building, structure or object within a duly
designated heritage preservation landmark or district allows any work to be
performed on any area, place, building, structure or other object in violation
of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation of this chapter and will
be punishable as such. Any remodeling, repairing, altering or construction
activity of a heritage preservation landmark or district in violation of this
chapter is hereby declared a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 315.13)
   (B)   The imposition of the penalties herein prescribed shall not prevent
the city from taking appropriate action or proceeding to prevent unlawful
alteration of the building district and/or site in question. The action may
include retraining, correcting and abating the violations. Upon violation of
any provision of this chapter, the city may enjoin the violator from further
and continued violation, as well as compel the violator to rectify, at his or
her or its sole expense, the violation complained of. The cost of enforcing
this provision shall be chargeable and collected against the violator in a
civil action.
(Prior Code, § 315.15)
(Ord. passed 4-19-2005)
CHAPTER 160: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
160.01   Statutory authorization
   
160.02   Findings of fact
   
160.03   Statement of purpose
   
160.04   Lands to which chapter applies
   
160.05   Official zoning map; establishment
   
160.06   Regulatory flood protection elevation
   
160.07   Interpretation
   
160.08   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
160.09   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
160.10   Severability
   
160.11   Definitions
   
160.12   Non-conforming uses
   
160.13   Amendments
Zoning Districts
   
160.25   Establishment; compliance
   
160.26   Floodway District (FW)
   
160.27   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
160.28   General Floodplain District
Flood Hazard Prevention
   
160.40   Subdivisions
   
160.41   Utilities, railroads, roads and bridges
   
160.42   Manufactured homes, travel trailers and travel vehicles
Administration
   
160.55   Zoning Administrator
   
160.56   Permits, certification requirements and record keeping
   
160.57   Appeals and variances; duties of Board of Adjustment
   
160.58   Conditional uses; standards and evaluation procedures
 
   
160.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Ch. 103F, 412 and 191 and §§
462.351 through 462.365 and 471.62, as they may be amended from time to time,
delegated the responsibility to local government units to adopt regulations
designated to minimize flood losses.
(Prior Code, § 0325(1.1))
§ 160.02 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic inundation
which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures or flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
   (B)   This chapter is based upon a reasonable method of analyzing
established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
(Prior Code, § 0325(1.2))
§ 160.03 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare and to minimize those losses described in §
160.02(A) of this chapter by provisions contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 0325(1.3))
§ 160.04 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city
shown on the official zoning map and/or the attachments thereto as being
located within the boundaries of the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General
Floodplain Districts.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.1))
§ 160.05 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP; ESTABLISHMENT.
   The official zoning map, together with all materials attached thereto, is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
attached material shall include the Flood Insurance Study for the Wabasha
County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas, prepared by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency and dated 6-29-2000, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map panels
therein 6-20-2000, that are numbered 27157C0095 D, 27157C0210 D 27157C225 D and
27157C0230 D. The official zoning map shall be on file in the office of the
City Clerk and the Zoning Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.2))
§ 160.06 REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION.
   The regulatory flood protection elevation shall be an elevation no lower
than one foot above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.3))
§ 160.07 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (B)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by scaling
distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as to the
exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the official
zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal appeal of the
decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment shall make the
necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on elevations on the
regional (100-year) flood profile and other available technical data. Persons
contesting the location of the district boundaries shall be given a reasonable
opportunity to present their case to the Board and to submit technical
evidence.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.4))
§ 160.08 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All
other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.5))
§ 160.09 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts or
land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.6))
§ 160.10 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.7))
§ 160.11 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed, but only after an in-depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the official zoning
controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist; and
      (2)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain, which may impede,
retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by the water.
   PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a REACH.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term “base flood”
used in the Flood Insurance Study.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood, plus any increases in flood
elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
160.42(C) of this chapter and other similar items.
   VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official development standard not stated as acceptable in the
official control, but only as applied to a particular property for the purpose
of alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or unique circumstance as
defined and elaborated upon in a community’s respective planning and zoning
enabling legislation.
(Prior Code, § 0325(2.8))
§ 160.12 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter, may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non- conformity.
   (B)   Any alteration or addition to a non-conforming structure or non-
conforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential of
that structure or increasing the flood damage potential of that structure or
use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in
accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood-proofing techniques
(i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing classifications) allowable in the
state’s Building Code, except as further restricted below.
   (C)   The cost of any structural alterations or additions to any non-
conforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of the
market value of the satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and
additions constructed since the adoption of the community’s initial floodplain
controls must be calculated into today’s current cost which will include all
costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all
manpower or labor. If the current cost of all previous and proposed alterations
and additions exceeds 50% of the current market value of the structure, then
the structure must meet the standards of §§
160.26 and
160.27 of this chapter for new structures depending upon whether the structure
is in the floodway or flood fringe, respectively.
   (D)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months,
any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The
assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of non-
conforming uses which have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
   (E)   (1)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any
means, including floods, to an extent of 50% or more if its market value at the
time of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed, except in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §§
160.26,
160.27 and
160.28 of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain District, respectively.
(Prior Code, § 0325(11.0))
§ 160.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regional flood and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special
exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner exceptions to this
rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of Natural Resources if he or she
determines that, through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the
intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official
zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days’ written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and the notice shall include a draft of
the ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration.
(Prior Code, § 0325(13.0))
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 160.25 ESTABLISHMENT; COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Establishment.
      (1)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
160.05 of this chapter.
      (2)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include
those areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
160.05 of this chapter that are located outside of the floodway.
      (3)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District shall
include the following areas on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
160.05 of this chapter:
         (a)   Those AE areas for the Mississippi River where a floodway
boundary is not shown; and
         (b)   The Zone AE for the Old Zumbro Riverbed from the Floodway
District boundary for the Mississippi River at the confluence with the
Mississippi River and then generally in a southerly direction to the southern
corporate boundary.
   (B)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter. Within the
Floodway, Flood Fringe and General Floodplain Districts, all uses not listed as
permitted uses follow, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a
caution is provided here that:
      (1)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this chapter and specifically §
160.42 of this chapter;
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations or repair after
damage to existing non- conforming structures and non-conforming uses of
structures or land are regulated by the general provisions of this chapter and,
specifically, §
160.12 of this chapter; and
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated or flood-proofed structures must
be certified by ground surveys and flood-proofing techniques must be designed
and certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified
in the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in §§
160.55 through
160.58 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 0325(3.0))
§ 160.26 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport
landing strips;
      (3)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas and single or
multiple purpose recreational trails; and
      (4)   Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists.
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (A) above and
the uses listed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(8) below;
      (2)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
      (4)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines;
      (5)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
      (6)   Placement of fill;
      (7)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles either on individual lots of
record or in existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type
campgrounds, subject to the exemptions and provisions of §
160.42(C) of this chapter; and
      (8)   Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (1)   No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including fill for
roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment or
other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any increase in
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      (2)   All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to the procedures
and standards contained in §
160.58 of this chapter.
      (3)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning
district if one exists.
      (4)   (a)   Fill, dredge spoil and all other similar materials deposited
or stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative
cover, mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         (b)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(b) above,
dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations any allow temporary, on-
site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused an increase to
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood, but only after the governing body
has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of the materials
from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available. The conditional
use permit must be title registered with the property in the office of the
County Recorder.
      (5)   (a)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human
habitation.
         (b)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters.
            1.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
            2.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood-proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing
classifications in the state’s Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood-proofing
classification in the state’s Building Code; provided, the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size, and
for a detached garage, the detached garage must be used solely for parking of
vehicles and limited storage. All flood-proofed accessory structures must meet
the following additional standards, as appropriate.
            1.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood-proofed.
      (6)   (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (7)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross-section of protected wetlands or public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 103G, as it may be amended from time to
time, community-wide structural works for flood control intended to remove
areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in the floodway.
      (8)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
(Prior Code, § 0325(4.0))
§ 160.27 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
If no pre-existing, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential
or non-residential structure or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the flood fringe; provided, the use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for flood fringe
permitted uses listed in division (B) below and the standards for all flood
fringe permitted and conditional uses listed in division (E) below.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, including basement floor, is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet for the
outside dimension at ground level may be internally flood-proofed in accordance
with §
160.26(D)(5)(c) of this chapter.
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess of
1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only as a
conditional use, unless the fill is specifically intended to elevate a
structure in accordance with division (A) above.
      (4)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (5)   The provisions of division (E) below shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or flood-
proofed in accordance herewith.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the use of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls and the like or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area:
         (a)   Shall be considered above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
         (b)   Is designed to internally flood and is constructed with flood
resistant materials; and
         (c)   Is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage. The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards.
            1.   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the state’s
Building Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at
or be designed to prevent flood water from entering or accumulating within
these components during times of flooding.
            2.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
               a.   The minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a flood-proofing technique. When openings are placed
in a structures walls to provide for entry of flood waters to equalize
pressures, the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one-foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters; and
               b.   The enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the state’s
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      (2)   Basements, as defined by §
160.11 of this chapter, shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation; provided, the basement is structurally dry flood-
proofed in accordance with division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   All areas of non-residential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood-proofed
in accordance with the structurally dry flood- proofing classifications in the
state’s Building Code. Structurally dry flood-proofing must meet the FP-1 or
FP-2 flood-proofing classification in the state’s Building Code and this shall
require making the structure water-tight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
      (4)   When, at any one time, more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material is located on a parcel for such activities as on-site storage,
landscaping, sand and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge spoil
disposal or construction of flood control works, an erosion/sedimentation
control plan must be submitted unless the community is enforcing state-approved
shoreland management ordinance, the plan must clearly specify methods to be
used to stabilize the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-
year or regional flood event. The plan must be prepared and certified by a
registered professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to
the governing body. The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal
of the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (5)   (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (6)   The provisions of division (E) below shall also apply.
   (E)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
      (1)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. If a variance to this requirement is granted, the Board of
Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the
structure for times of flooding and only after determining that adequate flood
warning time and local flood emergency response procedures exist.
      (2)   Commercial uses (accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks and parking lots) may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for the facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth greater than four feet per second upon occurrence of the
regional flood.
      (3)   Measures shall be taken to minimize interference with normal plant
operations especially along streams having protracted flood durations. Certain
accessory land used such as yards and parking lots may be at lower elevations
subject to requirements set out in division (E)(2) above. In considering permit
applications, the consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose
business requires that it be located in floodplain areas.
      (4)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (5)   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official zoning map.
      (6)   Standards for travel trailers and travel vehicles are contained in
§
160.42(C) of this chapter.
      (7)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
(Prior Code, § 0325(5.0))
§ 160.28 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permissible uses.
      (1)   The uses listed in §
160.26(A) of this chapter shall be permitted uses.
      (2)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria pursuant to division (B) below. Section
160.26  of this chapter shall apply if the proposed use is in the Floodway
District and §
160.27 of this chapter shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe
District.
   (B)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations within the
General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use permit for a
use within the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to
furnish such of the following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the floodway or Flood Fringe
District:
         (a)   A typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water
information;
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations; size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevations of streets; photographs showing existing land uses and
vegetation upstream and downstream; and soil type; and
         (c)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200 shall be followed in this expert evaluation. The designated engineer
or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss the proposed technical evaluation
methodology with the respective Department of Natural Resources Area
hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The designated engineer or expert
shall:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and overbank areas; and
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation and
findings of the designated engineer or expert accept the technical evaluation
and the recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the
permit application. The governing body, prior to official action, may submit
the application and all supporting data and Department of Natural Resources or
the Planning Commission for review and comment. Once the floodway and flood
fringe boundaries have been determined, the governing body shall refer the
matter back to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the permit
application consistent with the applicable provisions of §§
160.26 and
160.27 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 0325(6.0))
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 160.40 SUBDIVISIONS.
   See
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 0325(7.0))
§ 160.41 UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be flood-proofed in accordance with the state’s Building Code or elevated
to above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads and bridges
to be located within the floodplain shall comply with §§
160.26 and
160.27 of this chapter. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be provided where failure or interruption of these transportation
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where the
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems.
      (1)   Where public utilities are not provided:
         (a)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
         (b)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges form the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
      (2)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the state’s
current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems shall be
determined to be in compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 0325(8.0))
§ 160.42 MANUFACTURED HOMES, TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL VEHICLES.
   (A)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by §
160.40 of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in
existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are
located in floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be
placed only if elevated in compliance with §
160.27 of this chapter. If vehicular road access for pre-existing manufactured
home parks is not provided in accordance with §
160.27(A) of this chapter, then replacement manufactured homes will not be
allowed until the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan
acceptable to the governing body.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (C)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles that do not meet the exemption
criteria specified in division (C)(1) below shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter and as specifically spelled out in divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4)
below.
      (1)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles are exempt from the provisions
of this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (C)
(2) below and further they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
         (b)   Are highway ready, meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and trailer parks and the travel trailer/travel
vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it; and
         (c)   Existing condominium type associations.
      (2)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles exempted in division (C)(1)
above lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding $500
for a structural addition to the travel trailer/ travel vehicle or an accessory
structure such as a garage or storage building. The travel trailer/travel
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/flood-proofing requirements
and the use of land restrictions specified in §§
160.26 and
160.27 of this chapter.
      (3)   New commercial travel trailer or travel vehicle parks or
campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and condominium associations
and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling
sites shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   Any new or replacement travel trailer or travel vehicle will be
allowed in the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts; provided, the trailer or
vehicle and its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood
protection elevation and proper elevated road access to the site exists in
accordance with §
160.27(A) of this chapter. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the
requirements of this section shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or
regional flood.
         (b)   All new or replacement travel trailers or travel vehicles not
meeting the criteria of division (C)(3)(a) above may, as an alternative, be
allowed as a conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and
the provisions of §
160.58 of this chapter. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the
safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood. The plan
shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified personnel exist
to carry out the evacuation. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new
or replacement travel trailers or other recreational vehicles must be protected
or constructed so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of
flooding in accordance with §
160.41(C) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 0325(9.0))
ADMINISTRATION
§ 160.55 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator designated by the governing body shall administer and
enforce this chapter. If the Zoning Administrator finds a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall notify the person
responsible for the violation in accordance with the procedures stated in §
160.99 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 0325(10.1))
§ 160.56 PERMITS, CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition or alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure or land; prior to
the change or extension of a non-conforming use; and prior to the placement of
fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or equipment within
the floodplain.
   (B)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-conforming
use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator stating
that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of this
chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided on applications, plans,
permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance. Permits, conditional
use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement and
construction set forth in the approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement or construction. Any use, arrangement or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by §
160.99 of this chapter.
   (F)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit certification
by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood-proofing measures shall
be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered architect.
   (G)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a floodplain. The
Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the elevation to which
structures or alterations record of the elevation to which structures or
alterations record of the elevation to which structures or alterations and
additions to structures are flood-proofed.
(Prior Code, § 0325(10.2))
§ 160.57 APPEALS AND VARIANCES; DUTIES OF BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
   (C)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases the relief or
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest and only for those circumstances such as hardship, practical
difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under consideration, as
provided for in the respective enabling legislation for planning and zoning for
cities or counties as appropriate.
      (2)   In the granting of the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall
clearly identify in writing the specific conditions that existed consistent
with the criteria specified in the respective enabling legislation which
justified the granting of the variance.
      (3)   No variance shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses
prohibited in that district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the particular area or permit
standards lower than those required by state law.
   (D)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal from a
decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance, the
Board shall fix a reasonable interest as specified by law. The Board shall
submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
Commissioner will receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
   (E)   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on the appeal or
variance within 60 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so long as
such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or other public official. It shall
make its decision in writing setting forth the findings of fact and the reasons
for its decisions. In granting a variance, the Board may prescribe appropriate
conditions and safeguards such as those specified in §
160.58(F) of this chapter, which are in conformity with the purposes of this
chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the
terms under which the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this
chapter punishable under §
160.99 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
the action.
   (F)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board may be made and as
specified in this community’s official controls and also state statutes.
   (G)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a variance
that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   The construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      (2)   The notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance, and report the variances issued in its annual
or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Prior Code, § 0325(10.1))
§ 160.58 CONDITIONAL USES; STANDARDS AND EVALUATION PROCEDURES.
   The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide applications for conditional
uses permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator who shall forward the application to the Board of
Adjustment for consideration.
   (A)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment an application for
a conditional use permit, the city shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of
Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed conditional use
sufficiently in days notice of the hearing.
   (B)   Decisions.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall arrive at a decision on a conditional
use within 60 days.
      (2)   In granting a conditional use permit, the Board of Adjustment shall
prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards, in addition to those specified
in division (F) below, which are in conformity with the purposes of this
chapter.
      (3)   Violations of the conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter punishable under §
160.99 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use
permits shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources
within ten days of the action.
   (C)   Procedures to be followed by the Board of Adjustment in passing on
conditional use permit applications within all floodplain districts.
      (1)   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following information
an additional information as deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment for
determining the suitability of the particular site for the proposed use:
         (a)   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, flood-proofing measures and the relationship of the above
to the location of the stream channel; and
         (b)   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood-
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
      (2)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (C)(1)
above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical
assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in relation to
flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the
adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters; and
      (3)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer or
expert, the Board of Adjustment shall determine the specific flood hazard at
the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
   (D)   Factors upon which the Decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be
based. In passing upon conditional use applications, the Board of Adjustment
shall consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this
chapter, and:
      (1)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights or
velocities caused by encroachments;
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability of
these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
      (4)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
      (5)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
      (7)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to flooding
for the proposed use;
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the Comprehensive Plan and
floodplain management program for the area;
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
      (12)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
   (E)   Time for acting on application.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall act on an application in the manner
described above within 60 days from receiving the application; except that,
where additional information is required pursuant to division (D) above.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall render a written decision within 60
days from the receipt of such additional information.
   (F)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon consideration of
the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the Board of
Adjustment shall attach such conditions to the granting if conditional use
permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. The
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
      (5)   Flood-proofing measures, in accordance with the state’s Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood-proofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
(Prior Code, § 0325(10.4))
§ 160.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. The actions
may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program;
      (2)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also, upon the lapse
of the specified response period, notify the land owner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 0325(12.0))
CHAPTER 161: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
161.01   Intent and purpose
   
161.02   Scope, legal authority and violations
   
161.03   Definitions
   
161.04   Variances
   
161.05   Conformity with Comprehensive Plan
   
161.06   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   
161.07   Administrative lot split
Plat Procedures; Review and Approval
   
161.20   Planned unit development
   
161.21   Minor subdivision
   
161.22   Preliminary and final plats
   
161.23   Information required on preliminary and final plat
   
161.24   Floodplain management
Design Standards
   
161.35   General street design
   
161.36   Street design
   
161.37   Private streets
   
161.38   Public easements
   
161.39   Blocks
   
161.40   Lots
   
161.41   Required improvements
   
161.42   Sidewalks and/or shared-use paths
   
161.43   Parkland dedication
Improvements; Completion and Maintenance
   
161.55   Improvements; issuance of building permits
   
161.56   Inspections of improvements
   
161.57   Maintenance of improvements
 
   
161.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 161.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The process of dividing land into separate parcels for other uses,
including residential, industrial and commercial sites, is one of the most
important factors in the growth of any community.
   (B)   It is in the interest of the general public, the developer and the
future land owners that subdivisions be designed and developed in accordance
with the highest possible standards of excellence in order to:
      (1)   Assure that new additions will harmonize with overall development
objectives of the community;
      (2)   Encourage well planned, efficient and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate development standards;
      (3)   Improve land records by establishing standards for surveys and
plats;
      (4)   Place the cost of improvements upon those benefitting from their
construction;
      (5)   Assure that public improvements such as streets, utilities and
drainage facilities are constructed to satisfactory standards;
      (6)   Safeguard the interests of the public, the homeowner, the
subdivider and the municipality; and
      (7)   Protect the environmentally sensitive areas in the city.
(Prior Code, § 300.01)
§ 161.02 SCOPE, LEGAL AUTHORITY AND VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Scope. The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of
land contained herein shall apply within the city and within two miles of the
city boundaries as permitted by state statutes and as approved by the city.
Except in the case of resubdivision, this chapter shall not apply to any lot or
lots forming a part of a subdivision recorded by the county prior to the
effective date of this chapter, nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal,
annul or be in conflict with restrictive covenants associated with the land.
Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the land than is imposed
or required by the existing provisions of law, ordinance, contract or deed, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Building permits. No building permits shall be issued for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement on any land until all
requirements of this chapter have been fully met.
   (C)   Amendments. The provisions of this chapter may be amended by the City
Council.
   (D)   Validity. Should a court of competent jurisdiction declare any part of
this chapter to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the validity of the
remainder.
   (E)   Responsible official. It shall be the duty of the City Council to see
that the provisions of this chapter are properly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 300.02)
§ 161.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which normally affords a secondary means of
vehicular access to abutting property.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Those roadways as defined in the city’s Comprehensive Plan.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   CITY. The City of Wabasha, Minnesota.
   CITY CLERK or CLERK. The City Clerk of Wabasha, Minnesota.
   CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The City Council of Wabasha, Minnesota.
   CITY ENGINEER or ENGINEER. The consulting engineering firm retained by the
city on a continuing service basis.
   COLLECTOR STREET. Those roadways as defined in the Comprehensive Plan.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan prepared by the city, including a compilation of
policy statements, goals, standards and maps indicating the general locations
recommended for the various functional classes of land use and for the general
physical development of the community.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic and the other
end being permanently terminated to a vehicular turn around.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to a person or persons or to the
general public for a specific use of the land.
   HALF STREET. A street having only one-half of its intended roadway width
developed to accommodate traffic.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sewer and water
facilities, grading, street signs, plantings and other items for the welfare of
property owners and/or the general public.
   LOCAL STREET. Those roadways as defined in the Comprehensive Plan.
   LOT. A piece, parcel or plat of land intended for building development or as
a unit for transfer of ownership.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. Those subdivisions and combinations of existing parcels
utilizing the state’s platting statutes.
   OPEN SPACE. An area of land preserved from building development to protect
unbuildable areas, to protect areas that are part of the natural system such as
drainage facilities or reserved for the use of a homeowners’ association for
the purpose of active and passive recreation and/or other necessary community
facilities.
   PARKS. An area of public land developed and maintained primarily as
pleasurable landscaped areas providing for both active and passive recreational
pursuits, including playgrounds, neighborhood parks, playing fields and special
purpose areas.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A development process that is not subject to
standard zoning requirements.
   PLAT, FINAL. A map, filed or to be filed with the County Recorder shall
comply with M.S. Ch. 505 and M.S. § 462.358, as they may be amended from time
to time, and the platting standards as adopted by the state’s Association of
County Surveyors as administered by the County Surveyor.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A tentative map or plan for a proposed subdivision
meeting the requirements herein enumerated.
   PRIVATE STREETS. Function exclusively as residential streets serving four or
more dwelling units, lots, parcels or principal buildings.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of street between the curb lines, or the lateral lines
of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines that are intended for pedestrian
use.
   SHARED-USES PATHS. Off-road facilities typically used by commuter and
recreational pedestrians.
   SUBDIVIDER. A person, firm or corporation undertaking the subdivision or
resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land according to the requirements of
this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of parcel of land into two or more lots or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or, if a new
street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided, however, that,
the following situations shall be except:
      (1)   Where land is to be divided into lots or parcels of five acres or
more for agricultural purposes and not involving a new street;
      (2)   Where an agreement to convey land has been entered into prior to
the effective date of this chapter and the instrument showing the agreement to
convey is recorded in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds within one
year thereafter;
      (3)   Where a parcel of land is coterminous with a lot unit or units
described with reference to a plat or auditor’s subdivision duly filed and of
record in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds prior to the effective
date of this chapter; and
      (4)   Where the division of property meets the standards defined in §
161.07 of this chapter.
   ZONING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of Wabasha, Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 300.03)
§ 161.04 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General. The City Council shall have the power to vary from the
requirements of this chapter when supporting evidence indicates that:
      (1)   Special conditions applying to the property in question do not
apply generally to other property or structures in the district or vicinity in
which the land is located and are not the result from the actions of the owner/
applicant;
      (2)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape or
topographic conditions of the land involved, a particular hardship to the owner
would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience, if the strict letter
of the regulations were to be carried out;
      (3)   That authorizing the variance will not be a substantial detriment
to community health, safety or general welfare and will not materially impair
the purposes of the subdivision regulations or the public interest;
      (4)   The proposed variance will not substantially increase congestion of
the public streets or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public
safety, substantially diminish or impair property values within the vicinity;
and
      (5)   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to
alleviate the practical difficulty.
   (B)   Conditions. City Council may grant the variance and impose certain
conditions which are directly related to and bear rough proportionality to the
impact created by the variance. The variance may not be granted for a use that
is not allowed in that particular zoning district, that is inconsistent with
the Comprehensive Plan or that is not in harmony with the general purpose and
intent of the zoning ordinance and this chapter.
   (C)   Procedures. An application for a variance shall be filed, in writing
with the Zoning Administrator or designee at the time when the preliminary plat
is filed for the consideration of the Planning Commission. The petition shall
state the grounds for the application and all of the facts relied upon by the
application. Notice of the time and place of the public hearing shall be mailed
to all parties owning real property within 350 feet of the subject property,
the mailing shall be made at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
The Planning Commission will provide a recommendation to City Council for its
review and decision. The Council shall, thereafter, reach its decision within
90 days from the filing of the application.
(Prior Code, § 300.04)
§ 161.05 CONFORMITY WITH COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   All subdivisions shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan adopted by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 300.05)
§ 161.06 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   No conveyance of land by metes and bounds description, reference to an
unapproved registered land survey, or to an unapproved plat shall be made or
recorded after the effective date of this chapter unless:
   (A)   The legal description for the parcel was of record before the
effective date of this chapter;
   (B)   The parcel existed as a separate tax parcel before the effective date
of this chapter;
   (C)   The parcel meets the minimum lot standards in their zoning district;
and
   (D)   The parcel follows the standards and process outlined in §
161.07(D) through (H) of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 300.06)
§ 161.07 ADMINISTRATIVE LOT SPLIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to allow owners of certain
properties to divide those properties into parcels smaller than five acres
without going through the subdivision process as described in this chapter.
   (B)   Lot split criteria. An administrative lot split shall meet the
following criteria.
      (1)   Only parcels that are part of an existing plat can be
administratively split.
      (2)   The division involves the creation of no more than a total of three
new and residual parcels from a legally recorded original parcel.
      (3)   All new parcels shall have the minimum frontage required on a
public street, designated private street or designated private way.
      (4)   The parcels must meet the minimum standards for lot width and area
in their zoning district.
   (C)   Dedication of street and public utility easements. If public street or
utility easements are required, the owner will be required to plat the
property.
   (D)   Applications. An application must include the following:
      (1)   Signed application;
      (2)   Legal description and certificate of survey of the land to be split
or conveyed by a licensed land surveyor showing all new parcels; and
      (3)   A completed county combination form.
   (E)   Filing fee. A filing fee as established by the City Council shall
accompany all applications for administrative lot split or conveyance for
approval.
   (F)   Building permits. No building permits shall be issued by a governing
official for the construction of any building, structure or improvement on any
land without a copy of the recorded survey or plat and all requirements of this
chapter have been fully complied with.
   (G)   Review. Applications for administrative lot split and conveyance shall
be submitted to the Zoning Administrator or designee and will be reviewed by
the City Engineer and Public Works staff to determine if additional easements
are needed. Approval or denial of an application will be in writing. In order
to receive final approval of the application, the County Recorder shall record
an original of the certificate of survey and a copy of the recorded survey
submitted to the city.
   (H)   Appeals. All appeals of the decisions of the Zoning Administrator or
designee regarding this chapter shall be made directly to the Board of
Adjustment. Appeals must be filed within ten days of the date of the decision
of the Zoning Administrator. The Board shall hold a public hearing within 60
days of the hearing. The decision of the Board of Adjustment shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 300.07)
PLAT PROCEDURES; REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 161.20 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   All planned unit development subdivisions will follow the procedures and
design standards, as defined in §
162.071 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 300.08)
§ 161.21 MINOR SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   Criteria. A minor subdivision shall meet all the following criteria:
      (1)   Shall contain no more than five lots;
      (2)   The subdivision cannot involve the construction of any public
right-of-way or public utilities other than the standard required easements of
platted lots and future easement corridors;
      (3)   Does not impair access from the subject properties or any adjacent
properties;
      (4)   Does not violate any local, state or federal adopted law,
ordinance, regulation, plan or policy; and
      (5)   The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor licensed in the
state. Prepared plats shall comply with M.S. Ch. 505 and M.S. § 462.358, as
they may be amended from time to time, and the platting standards as adopted by
the state’s Association of County Surveyors as administered by the County
Surveyor, who shall check the final plat before recording.
   (B)   Procedures for minor subdivision plat review/approval.
      (1)   Prior to the submission of a minor subdivision plat, the applicant
shall meet with the Zoning Administrator or designee to review his or her
request.
      (2)   Application for a minor subdivision will be submitted to the city.
      (3)   If the Zoning Administrator or designee determines that approval of
the minor subdivision will not interfere with the intent and purpose of this
chapter, he or she shall approve the application. If the Zoning Administrator
or designee determines that the application would interfere with the intent and
purpose of this chapter, the application shall be forwarded to the Board of
Adjustment for its consideration.
      (4)   The minor subdivision shall be submitted to the City Council for
final action. If approved by Council, the applicant shall provide a copy of the
minor subdivision to the city and then shall record it with the county. If the
plat is not filed within 60 days of approval, it shall become null and void.
   (C)   Application. A minor subdivision application shall include the
following:
      (1)   A completed application;
      (2)   Application fee; and
      (3)   One 11-inch by 17-inch copy and a digital PDF image of a minor
subdivision including all information required for a final plat as described in
the Manual of Guidelines for Platting in Minnesota and shall be prepared by a
licensed land surveyor.
   (D)   Filling fee. A filing fee as established by the City Council shall
accompany all applications for a minor subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 300.09)
§ 161.22 PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
   The following procedures shall be followed in the administration of this
subchapter and no real property within the jurisdiction of this chapter shall
be subdivided or a plat recorded until a final plat has been approved by the
City Council as set forth in the procedures provided herein and filed with the
County Recorder.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the submission of a preliminary
plat, the subdivider shall meet with the Zoning Administrator or designee, City
Engineer and other appropriate regulatory agencies to review applicable
ordinances, regulations and plans in the area to be subdivided. At this time,
the subdivider shall submit a concept plan of the proposed subdivision showing
the proposed lot and roadway layout and, if available, the proposed connections
to community facilities, surrounding neighborhood information, existing natural
resources and topography of the site. The concept plan will be reviewed by the
city to provide an advisory review without incurring major costs prior to
submission of a preliminary plat.
   (B)   Fees. Subdivision process fees shall be as established by the city. A
schedule of such fees is located in §
32.49 of this code of ordinances. All applicable fees must accompany a
subdivision application.
   (C)   Preliminary plat procedures.
      (1)   After a pre-application meeting and concept plan review, the
subdivider can submit a preliminary plat application. The subdivider shall
engage a qualified land planner, licensed land surveyor or engineer to prepare
a preliminary plat of the area to be subdivided, and shall submit five full
sized copies of the plat, one 11-inch by 17-inch reproducible copy of the plat,
and an electronic copy (pdf) of the plat to the City Clerk.
      (2)   The city shall forward a copy of the preliminary plat to all
applicable local, county, state and federal agencies for comment and review.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall review the preliminary
plat and received comments from other agencies. The Zoning Administrator shall
prepare a written report containing his or her findings and recommendations and
the report shall be sent to the Planning Commission and the applicant.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
preliminary plat. Notice of the public hearing shall be given at least ten days
before the date of the hearing by publication in the official newspaper and
written notice mailed to the applicant and the owners of record within 350 feet
of the outer boundary of the preliminary plat.
      (5)   After considering the comments received at the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to City Council and state its
rationale for the plat to be either approved, approved subject to certain
conditions or disapproved.
      (6)   City Council shall consider the preliminary plat at its next
meeting following receipt of the Planning Commission recommendation. The City
Council shall approve the preliminary plat, approve subject to certain
conditions or disapprove the plat. The Zoning Administrator or designee shall
notify the applicant in writing of the City Council’s action.
      (7)   An approved preliminary plat shall be effective for one year,
unless a phasing plan has been approved or an extension is granted by the City
Council prior to the termination of the one-year period. Only one additional
extension can be requested.
   (D)   Final plat procedures. Following approval of a preliminary plat, the
applicant shall engage a licensed land surveyor to prepare a final plat which
may constitute only that portion of the preliminary plat which the subdivider
proposes to record and develop at that time. The subdivider shall submit to the
Zoning Administrator or designee, an application fee, one 11-inch by 17-inch
reproducible copy of the plat and an electronic copy (pdf) for approval of a
final plat.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator or designee shall send copies of the final
plat to each of the agencies which received a preliminary plat for their
comments and recommendations.
      (2)   No final plat shall be considered for approval unless it is filed
with the Zoning Administrator or designee within the effective period of the
approval of the preliminary plat.
      (3)   The final plat shall conform to the requirements of this division
(D) and all the conditions set forth in the approval of the preliminary plat.
      (4)   The City Council shall, by resolution and within 60 days, approve
or deny the final plat. The reasons for denial shall be recorded in the City
Council minutes and reported to the applicant by the Zoning Administrator or
designee.
      (5)   Upon approval by the City Council, the applicant will record the
final plat with the County Recorder and provide a certified copy to the city.
(Prior Code, § 300.10)
§ 161.23 INFORMATION REQUIRED ON PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor
licensed in the state. Prepared plats shall comply with M.S. Ch. 505 and M.S. §
462.358, as they may be amended from time to time, and all other statutes and
requirements which are applicable.
   (B)   Plan of the entire area. Where a tract of land is proposed for
subdivision that is a part of a larger logical subdivision unit, the Planning
Commission may require that a plan of the entire area be provided. This plan
would be used by the Commission to aid in judging the proposed plat.
   (C)   Preparation. The final plat shall be prepared by a land surveyor
licensed in the state. Prepared plats shall comply with M.S. Ch. 505 and M.S. §
462.358, as they may be amended from time to time, and the platting standards
as adopted by the state’s Association of County Surveyors as administered by
the County Surveyor, who shall check the final plat before recording.
(Prior Code, § 300.11)
§ 161.24 FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable due
to flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment facilities.
All lots within the floodplain districts shall contain a building site at or
above the regulatory flood protection elevation. All subdivisions shall be
connected to water and sewer treatment facilities that comply with the
provisions of this chapter and have road access both to the subdivision and to
the individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation. For all subdivisions located in floodplain districts, the
regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
preliminary platting documents. The regulatory flood protection elevation is
defined in §
161.11 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Floodway/flood fringe determinations in the General Floodplain
District. In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the
information required in §
160.28(B) of this code of ordinances to determine the 100-year flood elevation,
the Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the subdivision site.
   (C)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate specific
fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-structure or
multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated prior to the
initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard area
designation will be requested.
(Prior Code, § 300.12)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 161.35 GENERAL STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographic conditions, to runoff of storm water and to the proposed uses of
the area to be served.
   (B)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper projection of streets
in the adjoining areas.
(Prior Code, § 300.13)
§ 161.36 STREET DESIGN.
   The following standards of street design for both public and private streets
shall be observed by the subdivider. If the average lot width of the lots
served by the public street is in excess of 150 feet, the subdivider may
request that the street width and grade conform to the rural standards for
local streets. Rural streets do not require curb and gutter. The Planning
Commission shall take into account future density of the area when determining
whether rural standards are appropriate. The Planning Commission may consider
the rural standards for streets where the average lot width is less than 150
feet if a finding is made that the area served by the road has rural qualities
and will not support further development.
 
Street Category Right-of-Way  Surfaced Minimum Maximum Grade Minimum Grade
                Minimum Width Width
Arterial        70 feet       44 feet*         6%            0.4%
Collector       66 feet       40 feet*         8%            0.4%
Local           60 feet       36 feet*         10%           0.4%
Local (Rural)   50 feet       22 feet*         10%           0.4%
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Measured from gutter line to gutter line of curb.
 
   (A)   Cul-de-sacs. The right-of-way radius shall measure 50 feet for single-
family residential land use and 60 feet for all other land uses. In urban
sections, the measurements provided in this division (A) shall be determined
from the center of the cul-de-sac to gutter line of curb. In rural sections,
such measurements shall be from center of cul-de-sac to edge of roadway
surfacing.
   (B)   Street jogs. Streets jogs shall only be permitted subject to City
Engineer approval.
   (C)   Street intersections. Streets shall intersect at right angles whenever
possible and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees,
unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
   (D)   Access to arterial and collector roadways. Where a proposed plat is
adjacent to an arterial or collector roadway, spacing between access points
shall not be to less than 660 feet (one-eighth mile) for collectors and 1,320
feet (one-fourth mile) for arterials unless otherwise approved by the City
Engineer.
   (E)   Alleys. Alleys shall be prohibited in new residential areas unless
permission is granted by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 300.14)
§ 161.37 PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   Requirements. The Planning Commission may recommend approval of
private streets in new subdivisions under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Extension of a public street is not physically feasible as
determined by the City Engineer;
      (2)   Severe grades make it infeasible to construct a public street to
meet city standards as determined by the City Engineer;
      (3)   The private street would not negatively affect traffic circulation
on public streets;
      (4)   The private street would not impair access to property either on-
site or off-site of the subdivision;
      (5)   The private street would not impair access to or from public
facilities including schools, parks and libraries;
      (6)   The private street would not delay the response time of emergency
vehicles; and
      (7)   Covenants which assign driveway installation and future maintenance
responsibility are submitted and recorded with the titles of the parcels which
are benefitted. Any subdivision containing private street(s) shall clearly
designate the streets which are to be private driveway easement(s) or outlot(s)
and shall be recorded as a separate document after the plat is recorded and
will include the following note:
 
The following driveway easement(s) or outlot(s)                                           , in this subdivision
are privately owned and maintained by the lot owner(s), may not meet city standards, and will not be maintained
by the city.
 
   (B)   Existing street standards. Section
161.35 of this chapter shall also apply to existing private streets when any of
the following occurs:
      (1)   An extension or addition is added to an existing private street;
      (2)   One or more lots are added to an existing private street or one or
more lots along an existing private road are to be divided; or
      (3)   The City Council determines that an existing private street is
unsafe or will not permit reasonable access to firefighting and emergency
vehicles year around to all portions of the private street.
   (C)   Streets excluded. Streets intended for use as an arterial or collector
shall not be used, maintained or constructed as private streets.
   (D)   Easements. Any subdivision lot(s) to which the statement contained in
division (A)(7) above applies must include that statement on each deed of
conveyance.
   (E)   Private street standards.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide engineering plans, profiles, details,
design sections and construction standards consistent with the requirements for
public streets of the same classification.
      (2)   Private streets shall be subject to inspection and approval by the
City Engineer.
   (F)   Maintenance.
      (1)   A bona fide property owners’ association must be established and
given the responsibility of ownership and perpetual maintenance of private
streets, and, where appropriate, sidewalks and/or trails.
      (2)   Access may be via private streets with the understanding that the
city will not maintain the private streets. The city may consider maintaining
private streets upon the streets being brought into compliance with applicable
public street standards of the city in effect at the time of application and
without cost to the city.
      (3)   All documents are to be submitted to the city with applications for
subdivision approval.
(Prior Code, § 300.15)
§ 161.38 PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utilities. Easements of at least ten feet in width centered on rear
lot lines shall be provided for utilities. Easement widths and locations for
storm sewer, sanitary sewer or water main shall be determined by the City
Engineer. Easements shall be kept free of any vegetation which would interfere
with the free movement of utilities service vehicles.
   (B)   Watercourses. When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way. Easement need and width of easement shall be
determined by the City Engineer.
(Prior Code, § 300.16)
§ 161.39 BLOCKS.
   Block lengths shall not exceed 800 feet and shall not be less than 400 feet.
(Prior Code, § 300.17)
§ 161.40 LOTS.
   (A)   Layout. Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines. Lots with frontage on
two parallel local streets shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Size and dimension. Minimum lot area and lateral dimensions shall be
as set forth in
Ch. 162 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Lots along thoroughfares/railroads. There shall be not direct
vehicular access from residential lots to arterial streets. Residential lots
shall be separated from railroad rights-of-way by a 25-foot buffer strip, which
may be in the form of added depth or width of lots backing on or siding on the
railroad right-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 300.18)
§ 161.41 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements shall be made in all subdivisions according to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Monuments. As per M.S. Ch. 505;
      (2)   Streets. Streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-
way when the street is initially graded or when reconstruction requires it. All
aspects of street construction shall be in accordance with specifications
approved by the City Engineer;
      (3)   Utilities. All public and private utilities shall be installed
underground unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer. Water and sewer
laterals shall be installed to the property line. All aspects of utility
construction shall be in accordance with specifications approved by the City
Engineer;
      (4)   Drainage facilities. Construction of storm sewer and/or other
surface drainage facilities shall be in accordance with specifications approved
by the City Engineer;
      (5)   Sidewalks/boulevard trees. Sidewalks, when provided, shall be of
concrete and in accordance with specifications approved by the City Engineer;
      (6)   Specifications/inspections. Unless otherwise stated, all of the
required improvements shall conform to engineering standards and specifications
approved by the City Engineer;
      (7)   As-built plans. A complete set of as-built construction drawings
and an electronic copy of the drawings, in a format acceptable to the City
Engineer, shall be furnished at the completion of construction; and
      (8)   Financing. Before a final plat is approved by the City Council, the
subdivider shall submit an agreement and letter of credit equal to one and one-
quarter times the City Engineer’s estimated cost of the required improvements,
as approved by the City Engineer to assure the following:
         (a)   The subdivider shall pay for the cost of all improvements
required in the subdivision;
         (b)   Guaranteed completion of the required improvements within a two-
year period; and
         (c)   Payment by the subdivider for all costs incurred by the
municipality for review and inspection. This would include preparation and
review of plans and specifications by the City Engineer, Planner and Attorney,
as well as other costs of a similar nature.
   (B)   The city may elect to install any of the required improvements under
the terms of a cash escrow agreement.
   (C)   If the required improvements are not complete within the two-year
period, all amounts held under the escrow agreement or letter of credit shall
be turned over and delivered to the city and applied to the cost of the
required improvements. Any balance remaining after the improvements have been
made shall be returned to the owner or subdivider.
(Prior Code, § 300.19)
§ 161.42 SIDEWALKS AND/OR SHARED-USE PATHS.
   (A)   Location criteria. The placement of sidewalks or shared-use paths will
be determined by the location of the plat/subdivision. In evaluating the need
for sidewalks or shared-use paths, the city shall consider the sidewalk and
trail plan maps, as defined in the city’s Comprehensive Plan, land use and
traffic along roadways. Sidewalks will be required where needed to provide a
connecting link to existing or planned sidewalks or shared-use paths on
adjacent properties in order to fill gaps in the pedestrian network.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   All sidewalks and shared use paths must meet ADA requirements.
      (2)   The minimum width of a sidewalk shall be five feet and the minimum
width of a shared use path shall be eight feet.
      (3)   The city will utilize the MnDOT standards to determine appropriate
design standards for all pedestrian facilities.
      (4)   Sidewalks located along roadways should have a four-foot minimum
landscaped boulevard where feasible to accommodate snow storage.
(Prior Code, § 300.20)
§ 161.43 PARKLAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Findings, purpose; scope.
      (1)   Findings. The City Council finds that as the population grows there
will be an increased need for land that can be devoted to public recreational
purposes to serve both the residents of new developments and existing residents
of the city. The City Council also finds that much of the city’s existing
recreation infrastructure, due to age and usage, is in need of repair or
replacement. The City Council further finds that parklands must compete for
financial resources with other community needs and, therefore, may not be able
to be adequately funded entirely from the present tax levy, or that to do so
may not be equitable to existing residents. Therefore, subdividers may have to
contribute funds for parklands.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of parkland dedication is to provide a
mechanism whereby the city is able to obtain, for public use, land that can be
used for newly created parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails or
open space; or a reasonable cash payment that can be used to acquire land or
facilities for that purpose; as authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 462.358,
subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Scope. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all
applicants who request to subdivide land for the development of residential
units. The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a person seeking to
subdivide land for an assisted-living facility, residential care facility or to
develop land for a non-residential purpose.
   (B)   Dedicated land required. To obtain city approval for a subdivision, an
applicant shall dedicate public land for the following uses; parks,
recreational facilities, trails or open space in a quantity of land equal to
0.1 acre per residential dwelling unit proposed to be developed in conjunction
with the subdivision.
   (C)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   At least 50% of the gross area of the land required to be dedicated
pursuant to division (B) above shall have a natural slope of 4% or less, be
largely clear of forest vegetation, and shall not be located in an existing
watercourse, 100-year floodway, drainage easement or storm water ponding area.
In addition, that portion of the land must have a cover of at least six inches
or more of topsoil, suitable for the seeding and cultivation of grass.
      (2)   If the land proposed to be dedicated has a natural slope in excess
of the standard set forth in division (C)(1) above, but may be engineered to
provide for a slope that meets those requirements, the City Council may, upon
the favorable recommendation of the City Engineer, permit the lands to be
dedicated to satisfy the requirements of division (B) above.
   (D)   Certain activity prohibited. Following the dedication of any land, no
person shall remove trees, vegetation or topsoil therefrom, nor shall the lands
be used for the purpose of stockpiling earth or construction material, or
disposal of construction debris, without the consent of the city.
   (E)   Cash payment in lieu of land dedication. If, in the City Council’s
judgment, the quantity of land to be subdivided is of a size or configuration
that dedication of a portion thereof:
      (1)   Is not feasible or practical;
      (2)   Will not create a parcel suitable for a park, recreational
facility, playground, trail or open space purposes; or
      (3)   Is adjacent or readily accessible to an existing park, recreational
facility, trail or open space facilities; the requirement of dedication of land
imposed by division (B) above may be satisfied by a payment of cash by the
subdivider to the city, or a suitable provision in a development agreement
between the subdivider and the city governing the development of the land in
question. The payment shall be made prior to the execution of the final plat by
the appropriate city officials at the rate of $500 per new residential lot
created in the subdivision. The City Council shall have the authority to make
the final determination of the fee for purposes of park dedication and may
elect to accept a combination of land dedication for park use and cash payment.
   (F)   Proceeds. All funds received by the city pursuant to division (E)
above shall be deposited by the City Clerk in a park capital improvement fund
to be established by City Council resolution, and disbursed only for the
purposes set forth therein.
(Prior Code, § 300.21) (Ord. passed 4-2-2024)
IMPROVEMENTS; COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE
§ 161.55 IMPROVEMENTS; ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS.
   (A)   Before building permits are signed by the city, all applicants shall
be required to complete, in accordance with the City Council’s decision and to
the satisfaction of the City Engineer, all street, utility and other
improvements. This includes lot improvements on the individual lots of the
subdivision as required by these regulations, those specified in the final
subdivision plat, those approved by the City Council, and to dedicate same to
the city. The improvements shall be free and clear of all liens and
encumbrances.
   (B)   The City Council will not accept dedication of required improvements
until the City Engineer has submitted a certificate stating that all required
improvements have been satisfactorily completed and until the applicant’s
engineer or surveyor has certified compliance with these regulations, those
specified in the final subdivision plat and those approved by the City Council.
Upon the approval and recommendation, the City Council shall consider accepting
the improvements for dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
(Prior Code, § 300.22)
§ 161.56 INSPECTIONS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall provide for inspection of required improvements during
construction and ensure their satisfactory completion. The applicant shall pay
to the city an inspection fee that will equal the actual cost of inspection.
These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the city and no building
permits shall be issued until all fees are paid.
   (B)   If the City Engineer finds, upon inspection, that any of the required
improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the city’s
construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall be responsible
for completing the improvements.
(Prior Code, § 300.23)
§ 161.57 MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements on the
individual subdivided lots, such as erosion control, and provide for snow
removal on streets, if required, until acceptance of the improvements by the
city.
(Prior Code, § 300.24)
§ 161.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both.
   (B)   Any person aggrieved by the provisions of this chapter may have such
section, rule, regulation, decision or order reviewed by an appropriate remedy
in the district court, subject to the provisions of M.S. § 462.361, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 300.02)
CHAPTER 162: ZONING AND SHORELANDS
Section
General Provisions
   
162.001   Title
   
162.002   Authority
   
162.003   Purpose
   
162.004   Effective date
   
162.005   Jurisdiction
   
162.006   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
162.007   Interpretation
   
162.008   Repeal
   
162.009   Rules and definitions
   
162.010   Use and site restrictions
   
162.011   Separability
   
162.012   Exception on setback requirements
   
162.013   Definitions
   
162.014   Building sight visibility
Administration and Enforcement
   
162.025   Generally
   
162.026   Planning Commission
   
162.027   Board of Adjustment
   
162.028   Payment of review fees
   
162.029   Permits
   
162.030   Variances
   
162.031   Appeals
   
162.032   Amendments
Zoning Districts and Map
   
162.045   Districts
   
162.046   Overlay Map
   
162.047   Map
   
162.048   Boundaries
District Regulations
   
162.060   Use chart
   
162.061   Use definitions
   
162.062   Residential Conservancy
   
162.063   Rural Residential/Limited Agriculture
   
162.064   Rural Residential Growth/Transitional
   
162.065   R-1 Low Density Residential
   
162.066   R-2 Medium Density Residential
   
162.067   TDC Traditional Downtown Commercial
   
162.068   G-C General Commercial
   
162.069   HC Highway Commercial
   
162.070   I Industrial
   
162.071   PUD Planned Unit Development
   
162.072   Shoreland Overlay Zone
   
162.073   Emergency Response Area (ERA)
Performance Standards
   
162.085   General
   
162.086   Fire hazards
   
162.087   Vibration
   
162.088   Air pollution
   
162.089   Refuse
   
162.090   Dwelling units and structures
   
162.091   Accessory structures (permanent)
   
162.092   Minor structures, fences and walls
   
162.093   Temporary structures
   
162.094   Portable storage containers
   
162.095   Vehicles and equipment
   
162.096   Lighting
   
162.097   Excavating and filling operations
   
162.098   Landscaping
   
162.099   Transportation interconnectivity
   
162.100   Major traffic generators and traffic impact studies
   
162.101   Storm water management and erosion control
   
162.102   Wetlands
   
162.103   Bluffs
   
162.104   Home occupations
   
162.105   Hazardous materials
   
162.106   Solar structures and solar gardens/farms
   
162.107   Loading and unloading requirements
   
162.108   Off-street parking requirements
   
162.109   Cannabis regulations
   
162.110   Outdoor storage
Non-Conforming Uses, Structures and Lots
   
162.120   Purpose
   
162.121   Definitions
   
162.122   Rights
   
162.123   Lawful non-conformity
   
162.124   Expansion prohibited
   
162.125   Changes and substitutions
   
162.126   Substandard lots
 
   
162.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 162.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as, referred to, or cited as the “Zoning
Ordinance, City of Wabasha, Minnesota”.
(Prior Code, § 305.01) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.002 AUTHORITY.
   In accordance with the authority granted by M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time, the City Council does hereby ordain this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 305.01) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.003 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of promoting the public health,
safety, morals, prosperity, aesthetics and general welfare, of the city by
regulating on the earth’s surface, in the air space above the surface, and in
subsurface areas, the location, height, width, bulk, type of foundation, number
of stories, size of buildings and other structures, the percentage of lot which
may be occupied, the size of yards and other open spaces, the density and
distribution of population, the uses of buildings and structures for trade,
industry, residence, recreation, public activities or other purposes, and the
uses of land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry,
soil conservation, water supply conservation, conservation of shorelands access
to direct sunlight for solar energy systems, flood control or other purposes.
(Prior Code, § 305.01) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.004 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective after notice, publication, hearing and
adoption by the City Council as required by state statutes and city charter.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.005 JURISDICTION.
   Jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands and water within the
corporate limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.006 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not the intent of this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, impair or
interfere with any existing easements, covenants, deed restrictions,
agreements, ordinances, rules or permits previously adopted or issued pursuant
to law with the exception of previous zoning and shoreland ordinances which are
hereby repealed. However, wherever this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.007 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be interpreted and applied as minimum
requirements, shall be construed in favor of the city, and shall not be deemed
a limitation or repeal of any power granted by state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.008 REPEAL.
   All other ordinances or parts of ordinances of the city inconsistent or
conflicting with this chapter to the extent of their inconsistency only are
hereby repealed.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.009 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the
plural the singular.
   (B)   The word “person” shall include a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (D)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (E)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “piece” and “parcel”.
   (F)   The words “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   (G)   The word “city” shall include City Council, city staff or city
departments or boards.
   (H)   Unless specifically defined in §
162.013 of this chapter, words or phrases used in this chapter shall be
interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as they have in common usage
and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.010 USE AND SITE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever, in any zoning district, a use is neither permitted nor
allowed through a conditional or interim use permit reference, the use shall be
considered prohibited. In such cases, the City Council, Planning Commission or
property owner may request a study by the city to determine if the use is
acceptable and, if so, what zoning would be most appropriate and the
determination as to conditions and standards relating to development of the
use. The study shall include consideration of the adopted Comprehensive Plan of
the city. The city’s Planning Commission, upon receipt of the staff study, may
initiate an amendment to this chapter to provide for the particular use under
consideration or may find that the use is not compatible for development within
the district or the city.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, the use and height of buildings
hereafter erected, converted, moved, enlarged or structurally altered, and use
of any land shall be in compliance with the regulations established herein for
the district in which the buildings or lands are located.
   (C)   No lot shall be so reduced that the dimensions and yard requirements
imposed by this chapter cannot be met. No part of the yard or open space
required for a given building shall be included as part of the yard or open
space required for another building.
   (D)   Every part of a required yard shall be open to the sky unobstructed,
except for minor and temporary structures and the ordinary projection of sills,
cornices, roof overhangs, gutters and ornamental features projected not more
than 48 inches; except that, in commercial areas a permanent awning and its
accessory columns or struts may project not more than five feet into a required
front or side yard.
   (E)   Only one principal use is allowed per lot or parcel unless mixed uses,
multi-family dwellings or other such uses are explicitly allowed for that
zoning district.
   (F)   For uses that are allowed with a maximum square footage, the maximum
square footage applies to newly constructed and/or pre-existing structures.
   (G)   Open or enclosed fire escapes may project into a required yard not
more than five feet and into a required court not more than three and one-half
feet; provided, it be so located as to not obstruct light or ventilation.
Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulkheads, fire towers, monuments, stacks,
tanks, water towers, ornamental towers, spires, wireless or communication
towers (in districts where they are specifically allowed), masts or aerials,
and necessary mechanical appurtenances are hereby excepted from the height
regulations of this chapter and may be erected in accordance with other
regulations or ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.011 SEPARABILITY.
   It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City Council that the
several provisions of this chapter are separable in accordance with the
following.
   (A)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this chapter to be invalid, the judgment shall not affect any other provisions
of this chapter not specifically included in the judgment.
   (B)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or other structure, the judgment shall not affect the application of the
provision to any other property, building or structure not specifically
included in the judgment.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.012 EXCEPTION ON SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   Where structures exist on adjoining lots or within a distance of 100 feet,
the required front yard for the lot shall be set at the average yard (setback)
of the improved lots and no variance is needed to conform.
(Prior Code, § 305.02) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.013 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A dedicated public or private thoroughfare (platted or recorded
easement) located through the interior of a block generally to provide
secondary access and limited travel from local roads for the purpose of
accessing utility, parking and service needs to adjacent lots.
   ALLOWED USE. A use which is accepted in a certain zoning district with or
without any additional permits required includes both permitted and conditional
uses.
   ANIMAL FEEDLOT.
      (1)   A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings intended for
the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of animals and specifically
designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate; or, where the
concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be maintained
within the enclosure.
      (2)   Open lots used for the feeding and rearing of poultry (poultry
ranges) shall be considered to be ANIMAL FEEDLOTS.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure used to compare differences in the production
of animal manure that employs as a standard the amount of manure produced on a
regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer for an animal feedlot or manure
storage area calculated by multiplying the number of animals of each type below
by the respective multiplication factor and summing the resulting values for
the total number of animal units.
Dairy 1 mature cow (milked or dry)
   > 1,000 lbs.            1.4 animal units
   < 1,000 lbs.            1.0 animal units
   1 calf                  0.2 animal units
1 swine
   > 300 lbs.              0.4 animal units
   Between 55 lbs. - 300 lb0.3 animal units
   < 55 lbs.               0.05 animal units
1 horse                       1.0 animal units
1 lamb/sheep                  0.1 animal units
1 chicken (dry manure system)
   > 5 lbs.                0.005 animal units
   < 5 lbs.                0.003 animal units
1 Turkey
   > 5 lbs.                0.018 animal units
   < 5 lbs.                0.005 animal units
1 duck                        0.01 animal units
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Or as amended by the (MPCA) Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
** For animals not listed above, the number of animal units is the average
weight of the animal in pounds divided by 1,000 pounds.
 
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level (as defined in
Ch. 160 of this code of ordinances).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.jpg]
 
   BASEMENT STORY. A story which is not a crawl space that is that portion of
any structure located at least partly below the average adjoining lot grade,
including walkouts or basements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.jpg]
 
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment having the
following characteristics:
      (1)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the adjacent plain; and
      (2)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the adjacent plain averages 30% or greater (an area with an
average slope of less than 18% over a distance of 50 feet or more shall not be
considered part of the BLUFF).
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance from the average curb level in front
of the lot, or the finished grade at the building line, whichever is higher, to
the highest point of the coping of flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard
roof, to the average height of the gable of a gambrel or to the hip or pitched
roof.
   BUILDING LINE. Lines creating a building envelope defining the area where a
structure may be built. These are determined by drawing parallel lines to a lot
line or the ordinary high water level at the required setback beyond which a
structure may not extend.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.jpg]
 
   BUILDING SETBACKS. See YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which the principal use of the site
occurs.
   BUILDING, ZERO LOT LINE. A building attached by party walls with other
buildings in such a manner that the common (party walls) is located on the
common lot line(s) including, but not limited to, such common references as
twin homes.
   CALIPER. The diameter of the trunk of a tree as measured six inches above
ground level, up to and including four-inch caliper size and 12 inches above
ground for larger sizes.
   CITY. Includes Wabasha City Council, city staff and city departments and
boards.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land, water or building, type of development or
development activity which is not generally permitted in a specific zoning
district, but may be allowed with restrictions and conditions after the
issuance of a special permit upon a finding that with these conditions the use
is appropriate to and compatible with the purpose of the district and conforms
with the Comprehensive Plan.
   CONDOMINIUM. As defined by M.S. § 515B.1-103, subd. 11, as it may be amended
from time to time, which is a common interest community in which:
      (1)   Portions of the real estate are designated as units;
      (2)   The remainder of the real estate is designated for common ownership
solely by the owners of the units; and
      (3)   Undivided interests in the common elements are vested in the unit
owners or as amended.
   CONSTRUCTED RAIN GARDEN. A method of storm water management, a shallow water
retention pond where the soil is amended to a minimum depth of 18 inches with
one part organic matter to two parts soil, planted with grasses and/or shrubs
and/or trees, that stores water and performs bio- filtration.
   CORNER LOT. A lot abutting two or more streets at their intersection.
   CRAWL SPACE. Space below or above grade below the first floor of a structure
which is unusable as living space, but may provide access to structural systems
or foundation.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground.
   DENSITY, RESIDENTIAL. The number of dwelling units per acre; for the purpose
of meeting minimum performance standards this shall be calculated as the net
density and shall not include temporary structures or transient dwelling units.
   DENSITY, RESIDENTIAL GROSS AND NET. DENSITY means the method of describing
the intensity of development patterns typically measured in dwelling units per
acre. GROSS DENSITY includes the entire property, whereas NET DENSITY refers to
the land available for development (e.g., less roads and critical areas).
   DUPLEX. See DWELLING UNIT, MULTI-FAMILY.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof used and occupied for human
habitation or intended to be so used.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling forming
a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and sanitation by one family (with a
connection to public or private sewer). DWELLING UNITS, either by individual
rooms or an entire dwelling, are rented or leased on a monthly or longer basis.
Properties defined as short term rental dwelling units under §162.061 are not
considered DWELLING UNITS under this section.
   ERA (EMERGENCY RESPONSE AREA). The part of the wellhead protection area that
is defined by a one-year time of travel within the aquifer that is used by the
public water supply well. It is used to set priorities for managing potential
contamination sources within the drinking water supply management area.
   EXCAVATION. A development process and not an ultimate land use including any
artificial movement of the earth, including grading, digging, filling, removal
or addition of earth material made by tunneling or breaking or undermining the
surface of the earth.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal only of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other non-metallic minerals and peat
not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to
time, through an excavation process.
   FAMILY. An individual, couple or group of persons living together as a
single housekeeping entity in a single dwelling unit.
   FARM SITE. Land and farm buildings for storing and protecting farm machinery
and equipment from the elements; and farm dwellings occupied by farm owners,
operators, tenants or seasonal or year- round hired farm workers. Excluded in
this definition are industrial operations such as grain elevators or commercial
transfer stations and storage facilities.
   FEEDLOT. See ANIMAL FEEDLOT.
   FENCE HEIGHT. The height of a fence, hedge or wall measured from the ground
level at the lowest grade level within three feet of either side thereof.
   FENCE, OPEN. A fence, including entrance and exit gates, designed and
constructed so that the surface area of any segment of the fence contains at
least 70% open spaces and 30% or less solid materials.
   FENCE, ORNAMENTAL. An open fence other than a chain link fence that is
erected for decorative purposes only and is not intended to be used, either by
itself or together with wire or other material, as an enclosure, barrier or
means of protection or confinement.
   FENCE, SOLID. A fence that is not an open fence.
   FILL, FILLING or FILLING OPERATION. The depositing of fill, dredge, sand,
gravel, dirt and all other similar material.
   FLOOR AREA. Area in square feet of all floors in all buildings including
elevators and stairways. Measured from outside of exterior wall to outside of
exterior wall and multiplied by the number of floors. (Includes basement
stories.)
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The square footage of floor area on all floors for each
square foot of lot area.
   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
   FRONTAGE. The smallest dimension of a lot, parcel or plot of land abutting a
public street that is accessible by a vehicle measured along the street line.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT LAKES. As defined by Minn. Rules part 6120.3000,
“Shoreland Management Classification System”, are generally large, deep lakes
or lakes of varying sizes and depths with high levels and mixes of existing
development. These lakes often are extensively used for recreation and, except
for the very large lakes, are heavily developed around the shore. Second and
third tiers of development are fairly common. The larger examples in this class
can accommodate additional development and use.
   GRADE or GRADING. The process of moving 1,000 cubic yards or less of earth
to level or smooth a site to a desired gradient in the preparation for
construction or development of the land.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any substance that because of its quantity,
concentration or physical/ chemical characteristic poses a significant present
or potential hazard to human health or the environment when improperly used,
handled, treated, processed, stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise
managed.
   HEAVY VEHICLE. A vehicle with a gross vehicle weight in excess of 26,000
pounds, but excluding school buses.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than prior to
development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, storage areas and
concrete, asphalt or gravel driveways.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INTENSIFICATION OF USE. The changes to a use which is greater than when it
was initially approved or allowed including such circumstances as the increase
in traffic produced by the use (including both to or from the location of the
use), an increase in the number of customers visiting the location, an increase
in the amount of outside storage or other outdoor usage at the location and/or
construction of additional structures, parking spaces or other facilities to
allow the increases.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until the use is no longer allowed by
zoning regulations.
   JUNKYARD. Any area, lot, land, parcel, building or structure or part thereof
used for the storage, collection, processing, purchase, sale or abandonment of
wastepaper, rags, scrap metal or other scrap or discarded goods, materials,
machinery or two or more unregistered, inoperable motor vehicles or other type
of junk and ancillary business offices. A JUNKYARD does not include such uses
conducted entirely in an enclosed building. A JUNKYARD is not an allowed use in
the city.
   KENNEL. See §
90.05 of this code of ordinances.
   LANDFILL. See also WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY.
   LANDSCAPING. Planting of vegetation material including items such as trees,
grass, ground cover or shrubs, and including the use of items for soil or plant
support, stabilization and containment such as rock, timbers, paving and
trellis.
   LIGHT TRESPASS. Exterior lighting from another property which is 0.5
horizontal foot candles or more at a distance of 25 feet beyond the property
boundary.
   LOADING AREA. A completely off-street space or berth on the same lot for the
loading or unloading of carriers, having adequate ingress and egress to a
public street or alley.
   LOT. A parcel of land on a public street having a width and depth sufficient
to provide the space necessary for one main building and its accessory building
together with the open space required by this chapter.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The main horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding lots, as defined herein.
   LOT SIZE. A measurement which is the area of the land surface of a
designated lot.
   LOT TYPES.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1721.jpg]
 
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   MAINTENANCE. The definition for “maintenance” from the Uniform Building Code
(or as amended) shall apply.
   MINERAL RESOURCES. Rock, gravel, sand and metallic and non-metallic
substances of commercial value.
   MINOR STRUCTURES. Any small (under 200 square feet), movable accessory
construction such as birdhouses, tool houses, play equipment, arbors and walls
and fences under four feet in height.
   MOBILE HOME. Any vehicle designed, used or so constructed as to permit its
being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and constructed
in a manner as will permit occupancy thereof as a residence or sleeping place
for one or more persons.
   MOVABLE CONSTRUCTION. Any structure which is not permanently affixed to the
ground by means of footings, foundation or slab.
   OCCUPANT CAR RATIO. The minimum number of off-street parking stalls without
parking time limits to be provided for the occupant of each living unit in a
multi-family structure.
   OPAQUE. At least 80% of the view from the opposite side is blocked, when
observed from a point perpendicular to the opaque material, fence or wall.
   OPEN SPACE RATIO. The square footage of site “open space” provided for each
foot of building floor area.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool. For Wabasha, the OHWL elevation
is based on the location (river mile) and has been determined as shown in §
162.072 of this chapter for the main river channel.
   OVERLAY ZONE. A set of zoning requirements that are described in the zoning
ordinance text, are mapped and subsequently imposed in addition to those of the
underlying district. Development within the OVERLAY ZONE must conform to the
requirements of both zones or whichever is stricter.
   PASTURES. Areas where grass or other growing plants are used for grazing and
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetation cover is
maintained during the growing season, except in the immediate vicinity of
temporary supplemental feeding or watering devices.
   PATIO. An uncovered paved area or platform 17 inches or less above the
ground (measured from the top of the decking surface) used as an outdoor living
space within the yard of a principal use.
   PERMANENT STRUCTURE. Any structure which is permanently affixed to the
ground by means of footings, foundation, slab and/or utilities whether
constructed or erected on site or prefabricated off site and relocated to the
site wholly or in pieces and then assembled.
   PLACES OF WORSHIP. A tax exempt institution that people regularly attend to
participate in or hold religious services meetings and other activities related
to religious ceremonies. See also INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A method of land use or development which
utilizes a unified site design characterized by mixed land uses, infill and/or
clustering of development with the purpose of allowing flexibility in order to
further broad public interests by encouraging variety, preservation of local
identity, conservation of and sensitivity to resources, efficient use of land
and infrastructure, cohesive high amenity neighborhoods or districts and goals
identified in the adopted Comprehensive Plan. A SHORELAND PUD is one type of
PUD with additional or alternate standards.
   POLE BUILDING. A type of building constructed with a design using poles
placed in holes in the ground, which are then filled with cement. These poles
are generally spaced eight-plus feet apart to form square or rectangle
buildings. Pole barns can have enclosed sides or open sides, as in a lean-to
design.
   PORCH. An open or enclosed gallery or room covered with a separate roof and
attached to the outside of a structure or incorporated into the roofline of a
structure generally used as an outdoor living space or entry to a building.
   PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS. Shipping containers, track bodies without
wheels or carriages, trailers or similar items not permanently attached to the
ground with footings or foundation.
   PRESERVATION. The act or process of applying measures to maintain and
sustain the existing form, integrity and material of a building, structure or
district and the existing form of a site.
   PRIMARY FACADE. One or more principal faces or elevations of a structure
with features that define the character of the structure’s architecture.
   PRIMARY WATER SUPPLY WELL. A well that is regularly pumped by a public water
supply system to provide drinking water.
   PRINCIPAL. Primary or predominant, as applied to a use or structure, as
distinguished from secondary or accessory.
   PRIVATE OPEN SPACE. An outdoor area adjoining each dwelling unit, designed
to provide privacy and having one or more points of ingress to the residence.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 15, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   RECREATION SPACE. Total area in square feet which is countable as open
space, but is not paved in streets, walks or driveways and is suitable for
active recreational pursuits. The smallest countable recreation area is 1,000
square feet. Part of a recreational area having a dimension of less than 20
feet shall not be included as countable RECREATION SPACE.
   RECREATION SPACE RATIO. The square footage of space for active recreation
provided for each square foot of building floor area.
   RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A residential use project developed
under the planned unit development process. A shoreland residential PUD is one
type of RESIDENTIAL PUD with additional or alternate standards.
   RESIDENTIAL USE. A location comprised of one or more dwelling units that are
occupied by the owner or by a renter or lessee.
   REZONING. An amendment to the zoning map, changing the designation of a
parcel or parcels from one zoning district to different zoning district.
   RIPARIAN LOTS. All lots within 200 feet of the ordinary high water level
within any shoreland district.
   RIPRAP. Coarse stones and natural rock averaging more than six inches and
less than 30 inches in diameter which is free from debris (including concrete)
that may cause pollution or siltation that is placed randomly and loosely along
the shoreline to stabilize banks or slopes.
   SCENIC VIEW. A view available to the public (visible from public right-of-
way or public property) and/or visible from five or more private properties
which provides a view of natural, cultural or historic area of importance
within the community including the river, the slough, backwaters, bluffs,
coulees and historically developed, open space or rural areas of the city.
   SEMI-PUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, non-profit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system, or other facility measured from the nearest point of the
structure or any projection thereto and an ordinary high water level, top of a
bluff, road, highway, property line or other facility. See also YARD.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in Minn. Rules Ch. 7080.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force main, and
all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public waters:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or flowage and
300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a floodplain
designated by section on a river or stream, whichever is greater, as indicated
on the city zoning map. The city has several shoreland districts within this
boundary which are detailed herein. Pool 4 of the Mississippi River includes
the area commonly known as “the slough”.
   SIGN. Any words, letters, figures, numerals, phrases, sentences, emblems,
devices, designs, trade names or trademarks by which anything is made known and
which are used to advertise or promote an individual, firm, association
corporation, profession, business, commodity or product and which is visible
from any public street or highway.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE. Any archaeological site, standing structure or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S.
§ 307.08, as it may be amended from time to time. A HISTORIC SITE meets these
criteria if it is presently listed on either register or if it is determined to
meet the qualifications for listing after review by the state’s archaeologist
or the director of the state’s Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are
automatically considered to be SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   SIGN VISIBILITY TRIANGLE. A triangular shaped area of land abutting public
or private streets that are required to be kept free of obstructions that could
impede the vision of a pedestrian or the driver of a motor vehicle exiting or
entering onto a public or private road.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. A structure designed to utilize solar energy as an
alternate for, or supplement to, a conventional energy system. A SOLAR
STRUCTURE may be erected on commercial, industrial or private lots or
dwellings.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site such as the pouring of slabs, footings or foundation, the
installation of piles, columns or piers, or the placement of a manufactured
home on a foundation. Land preparations such as clearing, grading and filling
and the installation of streets and/or walkways, and the excavation for a
basement or footings and the construction of accessory structures does not
qualify as the START OF CONSTRUCTION.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site’s
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over distances of 50 feet or
more, that are not bluffs.
   STOOP. An uncovered series of steps and landings along with railings and/or
walls with no step or landing being more than 25 square feet in size.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of a floor and
the surface of the floor next above it or, if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. All property dedicated or intended for public or private street
purposes or subject to public easement.
   STREET LINE. A dividing line between a lot, tract or parcel of land and a
contiguous street.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
or any substantial change in the roof or in the exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins and manufactured homes.
   STRUCTURE, TEMPORARY. Any enclosure larger than 120 square that does not
meet the definition of “manufactured home” (as defined in state statutes) which
is not permanently attached to the ground with a foundation, including, but not
limited to, stretched fabric on frame structures, trailers or temporary
construction offices or other constructions used for temporary or permanent
storage.
   TOE OF THE BLUFF.
      (1)   The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from gentler to steeper slope above.
      (2)   If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOE OF THE BLUFF shall be
determined to be the lower end of a 50-foot segment, measured on the ground,
with an average slope exceeding 18%.
   TOP OF THE BLUFF.
      (1)   The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
      (2)   If no break in the slope is apparent, the TOP OF THE BLUFF shall be
determined to be the upper end of a 50 foot segment, measured on the ground,
with an average slope exceeding 18%.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as temporary dwelling for travel and recreational purposes, having a
body width not exceeding eight feet.
   TRIBUTARY RIVER SEGMENTS. As defined by Minn. Rules part 6120.3000,
“Shoreland Management Classification System”, consist of watercourses mapped in
the Protected Waters Inventory that have not been assigned one of the river
classes. These SEGMENTS have a wide variety of existing land and recreational
use characteristics. The SEGMENTS have considerable potential for additional
development and recreational use, particularly those located near roads and
cities.
   USABLE FLOOR AREA.
      (1)   The interior area of a structure used for or intended to be used
for the principal use such as living space for residences or for commercial use
the sale of merchandises or services, use of space for patrons, clients or
customers and all that area devoted to employee workspace. The floor area which
is used or intended to be used principally for the storage of merchandise,
hallways, elevator or stair bulkheads or for utilities or sanitary facilities
shall be excluded from this computation of USABLE FLOOR AREA.
      (2)   Measurement of USABLE FLOOR AREA shall be the horizontal areas of
all the floors of a building, measured from interior wall to wall.
   USE. Activity to which land or building is devoted and for which either land
or building is, or may be occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE. The same as defined or described in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   VISION CLEARANCE. An unoccupied triangular space at the corner of a corner
lot which is bounded by the street lines and a setback line connecting the
points determined by measurements for the corner of each street line.
   WASTE MANAGEMENT FACILITY. The land, structures, monitoring devices and
other improvements on the land used for the processing of garbage, mixed
municipal solid waste, recyclable materials, construction debris and/or yard
waste, as defined in M.S. § 115A.03, as it may be amended from time to time, or
as amended.
   WATER FEATURE. An artificial ornamental water storage structure used in a
landscape such as fountains, fish ponds or other similar landscape features.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN. The city’s wellhead protection plan adopted by
City Council on 9-7-2010, including any amendments to that plan or any
subsequent wellhead protection plan adopted by the City Council with a purpose
of ensuring a safe and adequate drinking water supply.
   WETLAND.
      (1)   Any lands as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 19, as it may be
amended from time to time. These lands are transitional between terrestrial and
aquatic systems where the water table is usually at or near the surface or the
land is covered by shallow water.
      (2)   WETLANDS must have the following three attributes:
         (a)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
         (b)   Are inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
         (c)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of the
vegetation.
   YARD or YARDS. An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2478.png]
 
   YARD, CORNER LOT. A front yard of the required depth shall be provided in
accordance with the prevailing yard pattern of the block as determined by city
staff. The secondary front yard cannot build closer than existing structures
within the block or 15 feet, whichever is less.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending the full width of the lot between the front
lot line and the nearest part of the main building which abuts a public or
private street.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending the full width of the lot, being the minimum
horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the nearest part of the main
building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard, being the
minimum horizontal distance between a building and side lot line. In corner
yard lots, yards remaining after two front yards shall be considered side
yards.
   ZONING ACTION. Actions regulated under this chapter, such as conditional and
interim use permits, variances and zoning permits.
(Prior Code, § 305.09) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord. 05-
2022, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. passed 4-2-2024; Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
§ 162.014 BUILDING SIGHT VISIBILITY.
   (A)   On all corner lots at street and alley intersections there shall be no
fence, landscape wall, hedge, or building constructed higher than three feet,
nor any obstruction to vision other than a post or column, approved sign, or
tree not exceeding one foot in diameter between a height of three and eight
feet inside the sight visibility triangle area.
   (B)   The sight visibility triangle is measured from the corner of pavement
where two public or private streets meet.
   (C)   A 45-foot sight visibility triangle is required at the intersection of
all public streets.
   (D)   A 25-foot sight visibility triangle is required between all alleys and
public streets.
   (E)    Sight visibility triangles are required in all zoning districts
except TDC.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2483.png]
(Ord. passed 4-2-2024)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 162.025 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The City Council hereby designates that it is the duty of the Planning
Administrator or designee to enforce the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The specific duties of staff in zoning administration shall be
detailed in position descriptions and overseen by the City Clerk, but shall
generally include:
      (1)   Providing zoning information and city applications to the public
upon request;
      (2)   Receiving and reviewing the applications to determine if they
comply with the provisions of city code and/or state statute;
      (3)   Issuing or denying applications when authorized by code or
referring the application to the appropriate public body for review;
      (4)   Notifying affected property owners of the required hearings and
publishing notice of the hearings as required under city code, city charter
and/or state statute;
      (5)   Conducting inspections and research and providing findings to the
appropriate public body;
      (6)   Investigating violations and notifying property owners of violation
and code requirements or bringing violation matters to the appropriate public
body;
      (7)   Overseeing the keeping of the zoning map and text up-to-date and
the provision of this information to the public in the most effective and
efficient means possible; and
      (8)   Identify and track non-conformities, as defined under §§
162.120 through
162.126 of this chapter within the city.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.026 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. A Planning Commission for the city is hereby continued
as previously established by the City Council. The Planning Commission, which
is a planning agency as allowed and defined by M.S. § 462.354, as it may be
amended from time to time, shall be advisory directly to the City Council,
except for other powers and duties that are imposed on it by statute, by
charter or by ordinance consistent with the municipal charter.
   (B)   Composition. The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members
who shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by a two-thirds
vote of the City Council. Terms for Planning Commission members shall be three
years. All members shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the City
Council for the unexpired portion of the term. All members shall serve without
compensation.
   (C)   Organization and meetings. The Planning Commission shall elect a
Chairperson from among its appointed members for the term of one year; and the
Planning Commission may create and fill other offices as it may determine
necessary. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep
a record of its resolutions, transactions, and findings, which shall be a
public record. Expenditures of the Planning Commission shall be within amounts
appropriated for such purposes by the City Council.
   (D)   Adoption of program of work. The Planning Commission shall prepare and
adopt a program of work which may be revised from time to time. This program
will outline activities proposed to be undertaken in the exercise of the
Planning Commissions powers and the performance of its duties consistent with
the goals and strategies adopted in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   Preparation of Comprehensive Plan. It shall be the duty of the
Planning Commission to prepare and recommend to the City Council for adoption a
Comprehensive Plan for the physical development of the city as allowed and
regulated under M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended from time to time. The
Planning Commission shall periodically review the plan and recommend amendments
to the City Council as allowed under state statute.
   (F)   Procedure for adoption or amendment of the Comprehensive Plan. Before
final recommendation for Comprehensive Plan adoption or amendment to the City
Council, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
thereon, notice of the time and place of which shall be given publication in a
newspaper of general circulation at least ten days before the day of the
hearing. The adoption of the Comprehensive Plan or any section or any amendment
thereof shall be by resolution of the City Council, approved by a two-thirds
vote of all of its members.
   (G)   Means of executing the Comprehensive Plan. Upon adoption of the
Comprehensive City Plan or any section thereof, it shall be the duty of the
Planning Commission to recommend to the City Council reasonable and practicable
means for putting into effect the plan or section thereof. The means shall
consist of a zoning ordinance which includes a zoning map, a subdivision
ordinance which provides for the control of plats and changes of lot lines, and
may include a plan for future streets, coordination of the normal public
improvements of the city, a long-term program of capital expenditures and such
other matters as will accomplish the purposes of the Comprehensive Plan.
   (H)   Review of recommended public works. Each department, board or
commission of the city, whose functions includes preparing and recommending
plans for development projects shall submit the plans to the Planning
Commission for review prior to the submission of these plans to the City
Council. These shall include plans, which have interdepartmental implications
or pertain to implementation of the Comprehensive Plan, but not those that
relate to the regular maintenance or repair of city infrastructure.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord.
passed 4-1-2025)
§ 162.027 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Planning Commission, from its members, shall elect
five non-Council individuals on an annual basis at the beginning of each
calendar year to sit on the Board of Adjustment which will be a committee of
the Planning Commission as allowed in M.S. § 462.354, as it may be amended from
time to time. All eligible members shall continue to serve until a new board is
appointed.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error in
any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Planning
Administrator or designee;
      (2)   To hear and decide requests for variances from this chapter of city
code under the process specified in §
162.030 of this chapter; and
      (3)   To hear and decide appeals and variances under other sections of
city code, as specified in those sections.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.028 PAYMENT OF REVIEW FEES.
   For the purpose of reviewing any applications when it is identified by city
staff, Planning Commission or City Council, the need for outside technical
opinion or review (including review by City Engineer, City Attorney, surveyors
or similar technical advisors) the cost of the review shall be the
responsibility of the applicant. Also, any cost generated in order to determine
need or requirements for application shall be borne by the potential applicant.
As a condition of approval or when deemed appropriate by the City Attorney at
the time of application, the applicant may be required to establish an escrow
account for payment of the services.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.029 PERMITS.
   (A)   Occupancy permit (certificate of occupancy). For uses and structures
that require any permit, no vacant land shall be occupied or used and no
buildings hereafter erected, altered or moved until a certificate of occupancy
has been issued by the city from their building official. The certificate shall
show that the building or premises or part thereof and the use thereof are in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter of city code and all applicable
Building Code provisions. The certificate shall be issued only when the
building or premises and the use thereof conform to all the requirements of
this chapter.
   (B)   Conditional/interim use permits.
      (1)   Permit. The Planning Commission may issue a conditional use permit
for conditional uses or an interim use permit for interim uses after review and
public hearing; provided, the uses or structures are in accordance with the
purpose and intent of all city code and the Comprehensive Plan, and are found
not to be hazardous, harmful or otherwise adverse to the environment or the
value of the neighborhood or community.
      (2)   Application. Applications for conditional/interim use permits shall
be made to the Planning Administrator or designee as prescribed on forms
provided by that office. Completed applications shall be forwarded to the
Planning Commission for consideration as prescribed by state statute. An
application may be rejected by the Planning Administrator or designee if
required information is not provided and a written notice explaining the reason
for rejection is given to the applicant within 15 days from submission of the
incomplete application. The applications shall include where applicable:
         (a)   Names and addresses of the applicant, owner of the site,
architect, professional engineer, contractor or other key participants and all
opposite and abutting property owners of record;
         (b)   Description of the subject site by the property address and
legal description (lot, block and recorded subdivision or by metes and bounds);
         (c)   A written and/or graphic description of the use being requested
including an explanation of the proposals compliance with this chapter and
requirement of the specific zoning district where the proposal is located. This
may include a site plan of the proposal and/or supporting information
including, but not limited to, proposed: hours of operation; number of
employees; locations of structures (existing and proposed); parking; signage;
lighting; and landscaping. The Planning Administrator or designee and/or
Planning Commission may require that a site plan prepared by a state licensed
land surveyor, professional engineer, architect or landscape architect showing
existing and proposed contours and elevations, property boundaries, amount of
land (acreage), locations of human-made or natural features such as structures,
waterbodies or wetlands, roads, easement locations and/or landscaping depending
on the specific use requested and/or the nature of the proposed location; and
         (d)   Additional information pertaining to the proposed project as may
be required by the Planning Administrator or designee and/or Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Review and approval.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the application and
consider the site, existing and proposed structures, architectural plans,
neighboring uses, parking areas, driveway locations, road access, traffic
generation and circulation, drainage, available and adequate city services and
the operation of the proposed use.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the
proposed conditional or interim use. Notice of time and place of such hearing
shall be published not less than ten or more than 30 days preceding the hearing
and at least once in the legal newspaper of the city. A similar notice shall be
mailed at least ten days before the day of the hearing to each property owner
within 350 feet of the property to which the application relates. The city
shall also notify highway agencies where road connections are proposed and all
other applicable federal, state or local agencies. Failure to comply with this
provision shall not, however, invalidate any previous or subsequent action on
the application.
      (4)   Criteria.
         (a)   General standards. No conditional or interim use shall be
granted by the Planning Commission unless:
            1.   The establishment, maintenance or operation of the use will
not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or general
welfare of the city;
            2.   The use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment of
other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the neighborhood;
            3.   The establishment of the use will not impede the normal and
orderly development of the surrounding property for uses permitted in the
district;
            4.   There is adequate public or private/community septic and wells
for allowed private utilities, access road and sidewalks for the proposed use,
drainage and erosion control, and/or necessary facilities have been or are
being provided;
            5.   Adequate ingress and egress is so designed as to minimize
traffic congestion in the public streets; including provisions for pedestrian,
bicycle and boat traffic where appropriate;
            6.   The use shall, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the district in which it is located;
            7.   Conditions such as landscaping, architectural design, type of
construction, construction commencement and completion dates, sureties,
lighting which prevents light pollution, screening security provisions, refuse
management, operational control, hours of operation, improved traffic
circulation, deed restrictions, highway access restrictions, increased yards or
parking requirements, may be required by the Commission upon its finding that
these are necessary to fulfill the purpose and intent of this chapter or other
sections of city code;
            8.   Adequate parking facilities and loading areas or the use;
            9.   Preservation of natural resources including, but not limited
to, filling and grading limitations;
            10.   Use does not obstruct scenic views from public rights-of-way
or existing residential uses;
            11.   Adequate size and configuration of property for the proposed
use or activity;
            12.   Adequacy of other standards will be determined by the
Planning Commission based upon the proposed type and intensity of use and
specific site conditions;
            13.   Hours of business operation;
            14.   No application for a conditional or interim use that has been
denied wholly or in part shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the
date of the order or denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of
change of conditions found to be valid by the Planning Administrator or
designee;
            15.   In any case where a conditional or interim use has not been
established within one year after the date of granting thereof, then, without
further action by the Planning Commission, the conditional use or authorization
shall be null and void;
            16.   A date or event which will terminate an interim use permit
will be identified on the permit and may include termination by a change to the
zoning regulations;
            17.   An interim use will not be granted if there is a finding by
the Commission that its issuance will impose additional costs on the public if
it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future;
            18.   Termination schedule of IUPs will be determined at the time
of permit issuance and may be based on the following or similar circumstances:
anticipated or resulting changes to the surrounding environment (e.g., changes
in zoning, land use, environmental conditions or development projects); sale or
transfer of property; violation of laws or codes (health codes and the like);
termination or lapse of other required permits; change of management or
ownership; and
            19.   Conditions as required in the zoning district of the proposed
project property including requirements of all zoning overlay districts as
specified in §§
162.060 through
162.073 of this chapter (or as amended) shall also apply.
         (b)   Specific zoning district standards. Additional conditions can be
found in each zoning district as follows.
            1.   RRTG - Rural Residential Growth/Transitional.
               a.   Use of “ghost platting” indicating future development
potential on public sewer and water; and
               b.   Clustering of residential lots to allow for future
development with an orderly extension of public sewer and water.
            2.   R-1 - Low Density Residential.
               a.   Adequate waste management plan and screening or enclosure
for trash or storage areas;
               b.   Conditions limiting or prohibiting traffic, parking, noise,
odor, hours of operation, sale of alcohol or other potential nuisances; and
               c.   Maximum sizes of structures, site or operations to maintain
residential neighborhood environment.
            3.   R-2 Medium Density Residential.
               a.   Adequate management and staffing;
               b.   Maximum size of structures, site or operation to maintain
the traditional neighborhood environment;
               c.   Adequate waste management plan and screening or enclosure;
               d.   Vehicle and pedestrian circulation within and to adjacent
uses; and
               e.   Conditions limiting or prohibiting traffic, parking, noise,
odor, hours of operation, sale of alcohol or other potential nuisances.
            4.   TDC - Traditional Downtown Commercial.
               a.   Exterior building treatments, including construction
materials comparable to those used in buildings and designed in a manner
conforming to the architectural design and general appearance of the district;
               b.   Refuse and service areas, including location and amount of
receptacles and screening with fencing or vegetation;
               c.   Signage and lighting, with reference to glare, traffic
safety and compatibility with other properties in the district;
               d.   The limitation of hours of operation, of noise allowed,
requirements for waste management, security, fencing or screening, and any
other provisions to harmonize outdoor operations with neighboring residential
or business uses;
               e.   Outside services, sales or dining areas as accessory uses
is limited to 30% of the interior floor area of the principal use;
               f.   Use of landscaping, fencing or walls for screening, and to
create a continuation of street setback conforming to the other structures of
the district for public or private parking lots; and
               g.   Conditions for building heights exceeding the base height
maximum of 35 feet must be shown to fit within the nature of the district.
Floor area ratio, historic evidence of height in the district and comparison to
nearby existing landmarks in the district will be considered and must be
addressed in the findings of facts for approval.
            5.   GC - General Commercial.
               a.   Refuse and service areas, including screening with fencing
or vegetation;
               b.   Signage and lighting, with reference to glare, traffic
safety and compatibility with other properties in the district;
               c.   The limitation of hours of operation of noise allowed,
fencing or screening, and any other provisions to harmonize outdoor operations
with neighboring residential uses;
               d.   Outside services sales, or dining areas as accessory uses
is limited to 30% of the floor area of the principal use; and
               e.   Conditions related to the management and storage of
hazardous materials.
            6.   HC - Highway Commercial.
               a.   Screening of outdoor storage, refuse service areas,
including screening with fencing or vegetation;
               b.   Compatibility of mixed uses;
               c.   Signage and lighting, with reference to glare, traffic
safety and compatibility with other properties in the district; and
               d.   The control of nuisances to neighboring businesses and
residences such as odor, dirt, dust and noise.
            7.   I - Industrial.
               a.   Demonstrated ability of public infrastructure or services
to adequately serve the project or financing provided through escrow or bond to
upgrade the services (to maintain pre-existing level of service to the overall
community);
               b.   Ingress and egress to the property, including provisions
for automotive, truck delivery and loading traffic. Also pedestrian and bicycle
traffic if deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission;
               c.   Screening of outdoor storage, refuse service areas, loading
and processing areas including screening with fencing and/or vegetation;
signage and lighting, with reference to glare, traffic safety and compatibility
with other properties in the district and adjacent properties;
               d.   The control of nuisances to neighboring businesses or
properties such as odor, dirt, dust and noise;
               e.   Increased setbacks, screening or barriers, in particular
for uses which may be injurious to the health or welfare of individuals;
               f.   Limitations on the height of structures, appurtenances and/
or storage of bulk or containerized materials;
               g.   Limitations of the amount and locations of impervious
surfaces; and
               h.   Requirements for additional storm water planning or other
types of engineering models.
         (c)   Amendments to a conditional or interim use permit. Changes
proposed to a conditional or interim use will be considered by the Planning
Commission upon application, review and approval following the same process as
a new application. New conditions or time limits may be imposed on the permit
based on criteria and conditions in place at the time of amendment application.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.030 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. To hear requests for variances from the literal provisions of
the chapter in instances where their strict enforcement would cause practical
difficulties because of circumstances unique to the individual property under
consideration, and to grant such variances only when it is demonstrated that
the actions will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of the ordinance
maintaining public safety and welfare.
   (B)   Procedure. An application for a variance shall be filed in writing
with the Planning Administrator or designee on forms provided and shall pay a
filing fee, as established from time to time by City Council. As part of the
application, the applicant must state his or her practical difficulty and
provide a building or site plan showing the details of the variance needed. An
application may be rejected by the Planning Administrator or designee if
required information is not provided and a written notice explaining the reason
for rejection is given to the applicant within 15 days from submission of the
incomplete application.
   (C)   Notice. Notice of the time and place of a public hearing shall be
mailed to all parties owning real property within 350 feet of the subject
property however, failure of any property owner to receive the notification
shall not invalidate the proceedings. The mailing shall be made at least ten
days prior to the date of hearing. The Planning Administrator or designee shall
set the date for a public hearing and shall have the hearing notice published
at least once in the legal newspaper, not less than ten days prior to the
hearing. The Board shall, thereafter, reach its decision within 60 days from
the filing of the application unless a written notice stating the reasons for
an extension is sent to the applicant with an anticipated length of extension
specifically stated, which may not exceed an additional 60 days (120 total)
unless approved by the applicant in writing.
   (D)   Standards and criteria for variance. The Board of Adjustment will
consider varying the regulations of this chapter of city code if a “practical
difficulty” is shown to exist for the property in question. The Board of
Adjustment may impose such conditions and restrictions upon the premises
benefitted by a variance as may be necessary to comply with the standards
established in this chapter of city code. The variance will not permit
standards lower than those required by any state law. The Board will not issue
a variance unless it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to
it in each specific case that all of the following are met.
      (1)   The term PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY means that:
         (a)   The property owner purposed to use the property in a reasonable
manner that is not otherwise permitted;
         (b)   The plight of the property owner is due to circumstances unique
to the property, not created by the property owner; and
         (c)   The variance, if granted will not alter the essential character
of the locality.
      (2)   In its consideration of a variance request, the Board of Adjustment
shall consider the following questions:
         (a)   The property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if
used under conditions allowed by the official controls because of the
particular physical surroundings, shape or topographical conditions of the
specific property involved, a practical difficulty to the owner as
distinguished from mere inconvenience;
         (b)   The conditions upon which a petition for a variance is based are
unique to the property or extraordinary circumstances apply for which the
variance is sought, were not created by the land owner, and are not applicable,
generally, to other property within the same zoning classification;
         (c)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a practical
difficulty if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of the
ordinance;
         (d)   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential
character of the locality and will not be detrimental to the public welfare or
injurious to other property or improvements in the neighborhood in which the
property is located;
         (e)   The variation will not impair an adequate supply of light and
air to adjacent property or substantially increase the congestion of the public
streets, or increase the danger of fire, or endanger the public safety, or
substantially diminish or impair property values within the neighborhood;
         (f)   Whether the variance request is the minimum variance which would
alleviate the practical difficulties; and
         (g)   No order of the Board of Adjustment granting a variance shall be
valid for a period longer than six months from the date of the order unless the
building permit is obtained within the period and the erection or alteration of
a building is started or within the period.
   (E)   Authorized variances. Variances may be granted only to allow a
reduction in the performance standards within each zoning district or to vary
regulations other than use in §
162.071 of this chapter. The Board of Adjustment may not permit a variance for
any use that is not allowed in the zoning district of an effected property.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.031 APPEALS.
   (A)   Purpose. To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged that there is
an error in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
Planning Administrator or designee or any administrative officer in the
enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Appeals of a decision by the Planning Administrator or designee.
         (a)   Any person aggrieved by any decision with claims of error from
the city in the enforcement of this chapter of city code may appeal to the
Board of Adjustment. This appeal will be made with an application of appeal to
the Planning Administrator or designee on forms provided. The application must
specify the grounds of appeal within ten days after the decision or action
complained of and will be filed with the Board of Adjustment.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment may determine and vary the procedural
requirements or interpretation of this or other sections of city code (where
specified) to be in harmony with their general purpose and intent of city code
and the Comprehensive Plan. A determination shall be made by the Board of
Adjustment within 60 days from the submission of a complete application unless
notice is provided in writing to the applicant that additional time is required
(up to an additional 60 days).
         (c)   The notice must specify the reason as to the extension and an
anticipated time of decision.
         (d)   The Board of Adjustment may take no more than a total of 120
days to make a determination unless the applicant provides a request for
extension in writing to the Planning Administrator or designee.
      (2)   City Council notice. Appeals of a decision by the Board of
Adjustment may be taken by any person to City Council, by filing a written
notice of appeal with the City Clerk specifying the grounds for appeal within
ten days of the decision of the Board.
      (3)   Appeals of a decision by the City Council. The decision of the City
Council may be appealed to the District Court of this jurisdiction within 20
days from the date the decision is made by the City Council as provided in M.S.
§ 462.361, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.032 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose. Amendments to this chapter (text or map) may be initiated by
the City Council, the Planning Commission or by a property owner for the
purpose of carrying out the policies and goals of the Comprehensive Plan and
promoting the public health, safety and general welfare of the community.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application by a property owner must be made to the Planning
Administrator or designee on forms provided. An amendment initiated by the City
Council or a property owner shall be referred to the Planning Commission for
review and recommendation to the City Council who will make decisions as to
proposed ordinance amendments. An application for a PUD preliminary plan shall
also constitute an application to rezone a property to a PUD Overlay and public
notices and procedures shall be the same as with other requests for rezoning.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing to consider the
proposed amendment. A notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing
shall be published in the official newspaper of the city at least ten days
prior to the day of the hearing. A similar notice shall be mailed at least ten
days before the day of the hearing to each property owner within 350 feet of
the property to which the amendment relates. A copy of the notice and a list of
the owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested to by
the responsible person and shall be made a part of the records of the
proceedings. Failure to give mailed notice to individual property owners or
defects in the notice shall not invalidate the proceedings, provided a bona
fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has been made.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall provide a recommendation to the City
Council as to the proposed amendment. The City Council shall not approve an
amendment until it has received the recommendation of the Planning Commission
on the proposed amendment or 60 days have elapsed from the date of reference of
the amendment to the Planning Commission without a report from them to the City
Council.
      (4)   The City Council may amend this chapter by a majority vote of all
its members. The adoption or amendment of any portion of this chapter, which
changes all or part of the existing classification of a zoning district from
residential to either commercial or industrial, requires a two-thirds majority
vote of all members of the governing body.
(Prior Code, § 305.04) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 162.045 DISTRICTS.
   (A)   In order to classify, regulate and restrict the location of trade and
industry, and location of buildings designated for specific uses, to protect
residential uses, to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings
hereafter erected or altered, to regulate and limit the intensity of the use of
lot areas and to regulate and determine the areas of yards and open space
within and surrounding the buildings, the city is hereby divided into zoning
districts.
   (B)   The use, height and area regulations shall be uniform in each
district, and the districts shall be known as:
GC    General Commercial
HC    Highway Commercial
I     Industrial
R-1   Low Density Residential
R-2   Medium Density Residential
RC    Residential Conservancy
RR/LA Rural Residential/Limited Agriculture
RRGT  Rural Residential Growth/Transitional
TDC   Traditional Downtown Commercial
 
(Prior Code, § 305.05) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.046 OVERLAY MAP.
   The overlay map will include the following zones:
   (A)   PUD Planned Unit Overlay District;
   (B)   Shoreland Overlay District;
   (C)   Floodplain Overlay District;
   (D)   Emergency Response Area; and
   (E)   Heritage Preservation Overlay District.
(Prior Code, § 305.05) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.047 MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the aforesaid districts are hereby established as
shown on the “zoning map” and the “overlay district map” of the city, which is
hereby incorporated as a part of this chapter.
   (B)   The map, together with a copy of this chapter, shall be available for
public inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Any changes in zoning district boundaries shall be recorded on the
map.
   (D)   Changes are effective upon adoption of an amendment by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 305.05) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.048 BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   The district boundaries are either streets or alleys, unless otherwise
shown and where the designation of the zoning map and overlay district map
indicates that various districts are approximately bounded by the centerline of
a street or alley, such street or alley centerline shall be construed to be the
district boundary line.
   (B)   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated and where
the property has been or may hereafter be divided into lots and blocks, the
district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines and where the
designations on the zoning map are approximately bounded by lot lines, the lot
line shall be construed to be the boundary of the district.
   (C)   In un-subdivided property, the district boundary lines shown on the
zoning map and overlay district map shall be determined by use of the scale
shown on such map.
      (1)   Annexed territory. Any land which may be annexed to the city in the
future shall be placed in the RC Residential Conservancy District until action
of the City Council shall assign the land to another district.
      (2)   Overlay districts.
         (a)   Overlay districts, as defined in §
162.013 of this chapter and provided for in §§
162.060 through
162.073 of this chapter, are hereby established.
         (b)   In the event of conflicting provisions between the underlying
zoning district and the overlay district, the overlay district standard shall
generally apply, unless specifically determined otherwise by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 305.05) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 162.060 USE CHART.
    Zones
Use RC RRLA RRGT R-l R-2 TDC GC HC I
                                                                    Zones
Use                                                                 RC RRLA RRGT R- R- TDC GC HC I
                                                                                 l  2
ACCESSORY USES
   Accessory building                                            P  P    P    P  P  P   P  P  P
 
AGRICULTURAL USES
   Agricultural stand                                            P  P    P
   Crop farming                                                  P  P    P
   Grain storage facility                                                               C     P
   Limited livestock raising                                     P  P
   Raising of chickens/more than number allowed                  I  I    I    I  I
 
   Bar/brewery uses
   Bars/cocktail lounge                                                             P   P  P
   Brewery                                                                                    C
   Brewpub                                                                          P   P  P
   Distillery                                                                                 C
   Micro-distillery with tasting room                                               P   P  P
   Small brewery with taproom                                                       P   P  P
 
INDUSTRIAL USES
   Heavy industrial                                                                           C
   Industrial service                                                                         P
   Industrial warehousing distribution or storage facilities                               C  P
   Light industrial                                                                        C  P
   Mining operations or extractive use                                                        I
 
INSTITUTIONAL USES
   Airport                                                               C
   Cemetery                                                      C  C    C    C  C
   Communication tower                                           C  C    C    C         C     C
   Cultural institutions                                                            C   C  C
   Essential utility and public service facilities < 600 s.f.    P  P    P    P  P  P   P  P  P
   Essential utility and public service facilities > 601 - 1,000 C  C    C    C  C  C   C  C  C
s.f.
   Essential utility and public service facilities > 1,001 s.f.                               C
   Institutional uses                                            C  C    P    P  P  P   C  C
   Family day care                                               P  P    P    P  P
   Group family day care                                                      P  P
   Group day care                                                                P  C   P  p
   Supervised living facility                                                 P  P
   Solar garden/farm >5,000 s.f.                                 I  I    I    I  I            I
 
MISCELLANEOUS USES
   Adult entertainment establishment                                                          I
   Cannabis businesses                                                              I
   Commercial kenneling                                          I  I    I
   Greenhouses/nursery/landscape business                        I  C    I
   Lower-potency hemp products                                                      P   P  P  P
   Major traffic generator                                       C  C    C    C  C  C   C  C  C
   Mixed use with 4 dwelling units or less and <1,000 s.f. of
institutional uses, and/or <1,500 s.f. office, retail and/or                        C  P   P
service uses
   Mixed use with 5 dwelling units or more with any other uses                      C   C
excluding industrial uses
   Parking garage                                                                   C   C
   Structures higher than maximum height (§§
162.065 and                                                                         C  C
162.066 of this chapter)
 
OFFICE USES
   Professional use up to 1,500 sq. ft.                                       C  C  P   P  P  P
   Professional use > 1,501 sq. ft.                                              C  P   P  P  P
RECREATIONAL USES
   Club                                                                       C  C  P   P  P
   Golf course                                                   C       C    C  C
   Hunting/shooting club                                         C  C    C
   Marina                                                        C  C    C    C  C  C   C
   Parks and open space                                          P  P    P    P  P  P   P  P  P
   Recreational entertainment facility, major                    C  C               C   P  P  P
   Recreational entertainment facility, minor                       C            C  P   P
 
RESIDENTIAL USES
   Accessory apartment                                           I  P    I    I  I  C
   Bed and breakfast                                             I  C    I    I  I  C   C
   Campground                                                    C  C    C    C  C      C
   Guest cottage                                                 C  P    C    C  C  C
   Home occupation                                               P  P    P    P  P
   Hotel/motel up to 40 rooms                                                       P   P  P
   Hotel/motel - 40 - 70 rooms                                                      C   C  P
   Hotel/motel >70 rooms                                                                   C
   Manufactured home park                                                        C
   Multi-family dwellings - up to 20 units                                       C  C   C
   Multi-family dwellings - more than 20 units                                      C   C
   Short term rental dwelling unit                               P  P    P    P  P  P
   Single-family detached                                        P       P    P  P  P   P
   Single-family attached dwelling - up to 2 units                  P         C  P
   Single-family attached dwelling - up to 4 units                            C  P
   Single-family attached dwelling - more than 4 units                           C
RETAIL USES
   Commercial retail up to 1,500 s.f.                                            C  P   P  P  P
   Commercial retail >than 1,500 s.f.                                               P   P  P  P
   Contractor yard                                                                      I  I  I
   Gas stations                                                                         P  P  P
   Open sales, service, rentals lot                                                 I   I  I  I
   Restaurants                                                                      P   P  P
   Restaurant/bar outdoor seating                                                   C   C  C
   Restaurant- drive-in/drive-thru                                                      P  P
 
SERVICE USES
   Funeral parlors                                                               C  P   P  P
   Repair and maintenance services                                                  C   P  P  P
   Self-storage facilities (indoor only) up to 1,500 s.f.                        C  C   P  P  P
   Self-storage facilities (indoor only) > than 1,500 s.f.                              P  P  P
   Self-storage facilities - outdoor                                                       C  C
NOTES TO TABLE:
* C = conditional use
* I = interim use
* P = permitted use
* Blank = not allowed
* Zoning district acronym (see §
162.045 of this chapter)
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord.
passed –; Ord. 05-2022, passed 12-6-2022; Ord. passed 4-2-2024; Ord. passed -
-; Ord. passed 8-6-2024; Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
§ 162.061 USE DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Accessory use.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A building subordinate to, but not part of, the
principle building and used for a purpose incidental to the principle building,
structure or use. Must not be connected to public or private sewer.
   (B)   Agricultural uses.
      AGRICULTURAL STAND. A structure, or portion thereof, up to 1,000 square
feet or an outdoor area used for the retail sale of agricultural and related
incidental products primarily grown on the premises (excluding livestock).
      CROP FARMING. The tilling of the soil, growing, harvesting and storing
crops, agriculture related commercial, storage yards, industrial uses and
services.
      GRAIN STORAGE FACILITY. Storage structure for storing bulk agriculturally
grown products. Excluding any mined, quarried or manufactured product. Only
allowed in the General Commercial Zoning District when it is an existing legal
non-conforming use.
      LIMITED LIVESTOCK RAISING. The keeping, grazing or feeding of livestock
for sale or livestock increase with a maximum of one animal unit per acre and a
minimum of two acres for the first animal unit. Feedlots, stockyards and
auction houses and other similar uses are not allowed.
   (C)   Bar/brewery uses.
      BAR/COCKTAIL LOUNGE. An establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold
at retail for consumption on the premises and where, if food is also sold, sale
of alcoholic beverages is 25% or more of gross receipts.
      BREWERY. A facility that produces, for sale, beer, ale or other beverages
made from malt by fermentation and containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by
volume.
      BREWPUB. A small brewery that operates a restaurant on the same premises
as the brewery, whose malt liquor production per calendar year may be limited
by state statue.
      DISTILLERY. A facility that produces ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of
ethyl, spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits,
including all dilutions and mixtures thereof for non- industrial use.
      MICRO-DISTILLERY WITH TASTING ROOM. A facility that produces ethyl
alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or
other distilled spirits, including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, for non-
industrial use not to exceed 40,000-proof gallons per calendar year.
      SMALL BREWERY WITH TAPROOM. A brewery that produces no more than 20,000
barrels of malt liquor in a calendar year.
      TAPROOM. An area for the on-sale consumption of malt liquor produced by
the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery
location owned by the brewer. A TAPROOM may also include sales for off-premises
consumption of malt liquor produced at the brewery location or adjacent to the
taproom and owned by the brewer for off-premises consumption, packaged subject
to state statute.
      TASTING ROOM. An area for the on-sale consumption of distilled spirits or
wine produced on the premises of, or adjacent to one winery or one distillery
and in common ownership to the producer of the wine or distilled spirits. The
TASTING ROOM AREA may include sales for off-premises consumption of products
produced by the owner of the winery or distillery location if permissible by
state law.
   (D)   Industrial uses.
      HEAVY INDUSTRIAL. Establishments involved in the manufacturing,
fabrication or compounding of products, on a primarily wholesale basis, in
particular those involving the use of mechanical power and machinery to produce
products from raw materials, or to prepare or alter materials for use in a
finished product, or to assemble parts into products where there is the
creation of odor, dirt, dust and noise.
      INDUSTRIAL SERVICE. Establishments involved in repair and servicing of
industrial, or business machinery, equipment, products with some ancillary
sales, repair, storage or salvage operations and truck stops.
      INDUSTRIAL WAREHOUSING DISTRIBUTION OR STORAGE. Establishments involved
in the storage or distribution of materials or equipment on a primarily
wholesale basis or as support to a service industry. Property can include
equipment sales and rental and ancillary business offices.
      LIGHT INDUSTRIAL. Establishments involved in the processing or assembly
of products where the process involved is relatively clean and nuisance-free,
in the creation of finished products for sale on a primarily wholesale basis.
      MINING OPERATIONS OR EXTRACTIVE USE. Extracting mineral resources which
may include stockpiling, for retail, wholesale, contract purchase or transfer
of mineral products. For purposes of this chapter, the leveling, grading,
filling or removal of materials during the course of normal site preparation
for an approved use (e.g., residential subdivision, commercial development and
the like) does not constitute a mining site/operation, if: processing of the
material does not occur on the property; the activity is completed quickly,
does not occur over an extended period of time and on-site stockpiles are fully
depleted; and, a mining permit is not required from the Department of Natural
Resources.
   (E)   Institutional uses.
      COMMUNICATION TOWER. Any lower structure used for the purpose of
providing transmission of cell phone, radio or other personal wireless
facilities.
      CULTURAL INSTITUTION. A facility used for the storage, preservation,
study or exhibition of historic or cultural objects, or scientific interest for
the recreation or cultural education of the public. Gift shops, educational or
recreational services can be ancillary uses.
      ESSENTIAL UTILITY FACILITY. Structures which provide shelter for
equipment, a central utility hub for utilities, booster or transmitting (not
including towers).
      INSTITUTIONAL USE. Any use which typically provides a service on a not-
for-profit basis by an organized establishment, foundation or society,
including religious, private or public non-profit organizations such as
schools, hospitals, churches and government facilities.
      SOLAR GARDEN/FARM. A solar power installation that accepts capitol from
and provides output credit and tax benefits to individuals and other investors.
      STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES. A use which is required under M.S.
§ 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (a)   FAMILY DAY CARE. A day program providing care for not more than
ten children at one time, and which is licensed by the county as a family day
care home.
         (b)   GROUP DAY CARE. A day care program providing care for more than
six children at one time. GROUP DAY CARE includes programs for children known
as nursery schools, day nurseries, child care centers, play groups, day care
centers for school age children, after school programs, infant day care
centers, cooperative day care centers and Head Start programs.
         (c)   GROUP FAMILY DAY CARE. A day care program providing care for no
more than 14 children at any one time of which no more than ten are under
school age.
         (d)   SUPERVISED LIVING FACILITY. A facility in which there is
provided supervision, lodging, meals and in accordance with provisions of rules
of the Department of Human Services and as defined by state statute, counseling
and developmental habilitative or rehabilitative services to five or more
persons who are developmentally disabled, chemically dependent, adult mentally
ill, or physically disabled.
   (F)   Miscellaneous uses.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT. As defined in M.S. § 617.242, as it
may be amended from time to time, a business that is open only to adults and
that presents live performances that are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction of sexual conduct or nudity.
      CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis
plants within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to
mature plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label
immature plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis
businesses, transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the
same premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
      CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s)
of mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
      CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
      CANNABIS USES. Shall include cannabis cultivation, manufacturer,
wholesale, retail, transportation, and delivery, and hemp manufacturer.
      COMMERCIAL KENNEL. The keeping of more than three dogs or four cats on
the same premises, whether owned by the same person or not that are kept for
sale, breeding, profit and/or training. A litter of pups or kittens may be kept
up to three months before it shall be considered a KENNEL.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, subd. 50, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      MAJOR TRAFFIC GENERATOR. Any use of land for whatever purpose
(commercial, industrial, recreational or residential) which generates 500 or
more vehicle trips per day total or 60 heavy vehicle trips per day according to
the ITE (Institute of Transportation Engineers) most recent Trip Generation
Manual.
      MIXED USE. A mix of more than one principal use per lot or parcel
including different types of residential (single- and multi-family) and/or mix
of residential, commercial and/or institutional uses.
      NURSERY/GREENHOUSE/LANDSCAPE BUSINESS. A business growing and selling
trees, flowering, decorative and/or edible plants which may be conducted in or
outside of a building.
      PARKING GARAGE. A structure or any portion thereof designed for the
parking of one or more motor vehicles, not including display or storage of
motor vehicles for sale.
   (G)   Office uses.
      PROFESSIONAL SERVICE. The selling of personal or professional services to
the end consumers that typically do not produce a tangible commodity and the
sale of merchandise is less than 25% of the business including medical, beauty,
law and other professional services.
   (H)   Recreational uses.
      CLUB. An establishment or properly operated for social, recreational or
educational purposes, but open only to members and their guests and not the
general public.
      HUNTING/SHOOTING CLUB. An organized gun/archery club that allow the
firing of dangerous weapons on the club grounds only by members and guests
subject to such conditions as may be required by the city to protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
      MARINA. A dock or basin providing moorage for four watercraft or more and
which may offer supply, repair, rental or other support facilities.
      PARKS AND OPEN SPACE. Lands which are open to the public that provide a
location for natural environmental, cultural or recreational activities and
enjoyment.
      RECREATIONAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, MAJOR. A structure or open space
providing entertainment or recreation, including, but not limited to: amusement
centers; movie theaters with more than two screens or stages; and indoor or
outdoor water parks or amusement parks, concert venues, dance halls, ski hill,
golf course.
      RECREATIONAL ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY, MINOR. A structure or open space
providing entertainment or recreation, including, but not limited to: bowling
alleys; pool or billiard halls; tennis courts; racquetball courts; exercise
facilities; roller and ice skating rinks; concert venues with a capacity of up
to 200 patrons; theaters with up to two screens or stages.
   (I)   Residential uses.
      ACCESSORY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit with up to 50% of the principle
structure, subordinate to and located in an owner-occupied single-family
dwelling or principle structure of a commercial business.
      BED AND BREAKFAST. An establishment in a single-family dwelling that
provides temporary accommodations to overnight guests for compensation and
meals for a daily or weekly fee.
      CAMPGROUND. An open-air recreation area where temporary shelters are
allowed and intended to provide transient occupancy and associated buildings
and accessory structures and offices used in the operation of the facility. The
maximum campground density is 24 camping sites per acre and/or 15 recreational
vehicles per acre.
      GUEST COTTAGE. An accessory structure used as a dwelling unit that may
contain sleeping spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to
those provided in the primary dwelling unit on a lot.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or business conducted within the
principle or accessory building by the resident(s). The space used by the
business cannot exceed 25% of the usable floor area of the principal structure.
      HOTEL/MOTEL. A structure or group of structures in which three or more
units for lodging are offered to transient guests with furnishing of sleeping
accommodation in rooms or suites of rooms for compensation, and may also
include an ancillary eating establishment, gift shop or other ancillary tourist
services available to guests and/or to the general public.
      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which is developed
for the placement of mobile homes which is owned by a single entity rather than
parcels that are individually owned.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A structure or portion thereof intended and
designed for two or more dwelling units.
      SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING. A building designed or used exclusively
for residential purposes by one family on its own separate lot and is attached
on at least one side by another single-family dwelling.
      SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED DWELLING. A building containing one dwelling unit
on its own separate lot, not attached to any other dwelling units, having yards
on all sides of the unit.
   (J)   Retail uses.
      COMMERCIAL RETAIL. The selling of merchandise or goods over a counter to
consumers and rendering services incidental to the sale of the goods including
services which support agricultural such as soil preparation, crop, farm and
breeding services on a fee or contract basis where no more than 5% of items for
sale can be seasonally displayed outside within the commercial property if a
reasonable turnover of items is occurring. All commercial retail drive-thru
services will require a interim use permit.
      CONTRACTOR YARD. A site used for storage of equipment and supplies used
by a construction or landscape contractor in the operation of their business.
All contractor yards will require an interim use permit.
      GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. Any building or premises, other than a private or
storage garage, where motor-driven vehicles are equipped, repaired, serviced,
sold or stored.
      GAS STATION. An establishment which sells gasoline typically at outdoor
pumps to automobiles and other vehicles, and may include sale of convenience
items.
      OUTDOOR SALES, SERVICE, RENTAL LOT. An outdoor space for display and/or
sales of automobiles, trucks, motorcycles, boats, trailers, recreational
vehicles, lawnmowers, snowblowers, mobile and manufactured home and similar
products, materials or merchandise where the majority of product is located and
business can occurs within a permanent structure.
      RESTAURANT. An eating establishment where food and beverage is served to
a customer. Establishments serving alcohol for consumption (where gross sales
of alcohol are 25% or less) on site or providing take-out food to order as
ancillary use are included.
      RESTAURANT, BAR OUTDOOR SEATING. More than three tables (with or without
chairs) or four benches or chairs provided by a business to allow patrons to
eat and/or drink outside of the business.
      RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN/DRIVE-THRU. Any eating establishment with a drive-
thru or a drive-in facility.
   (K)   Service uses.
      FUNERAL PARLOR. Private non-denominational funeral chapels and other
facilities for the purpose of spiritual meditation and vigil before burial of
deceased persons.
      REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE SERVICE. The provision of repair or maintenance
services including auto, mechanical, machinery repair or retooling.
      SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A site, structure or building in which customers
can rent space to store possessions. INDOOR SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES are those
that are completely enclosed with walls and roof.
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord.
passed 4-2-2024; Ord. passed - -; Ord. passed 8-6-2024; Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
Statutory reference:
   Campgrounds, see Minn. Rules 4630.0200
§ 162.062 RESIDENTIAL CONSERVANCY.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for limited development in areas of the city where
topography or natural resources require careful alterations to the land and
placement of structures and infrastructure.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards, district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Bluff setback (top/toe of bluff) 30 feet
Maximum height                   35 feet
Maximum residential density      2 dwelling units per acre
Minimum lot frontage             25 feet
Minimum lot size (private sewer) 20,000 square feet
Minimum lot size (city sewer)    9,600 square feet
Minimum lot width                60 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              25 feet
Rear               25 feet
Side               5 feet
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              Behind principle structure
Rear               3 feet
Side               3 feet
 
      (4)   Septic systems.
         (a)   Sites on septic systems must be able to provide two individual
septic locations, a primary and a backup which are indicated on the site plan.
         (b)   All septic systems must meet the standards identified by the
state’s Pollution Control Agency in Minn. Rules Ch. 7080.
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.063 RURAL RESIDENTIAL/LIMITED AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the use and limited development of areas within
city limits that will retain a rural type of development pattern due to the
fact that city infrastructure such as sewer and water services are not
available currently or in the foreseeable future.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Bluff setback (top/toe of bluff) 30 feet
Maximum height                   35 feet (with the exception of agricultural
                                 buildings such as barns or silos)
Maximum residential density      1 dwelling units per 40 acre
Minimum lot frontage             25 feet
Minimum lot size                 108,900 square feet (2.5 acres)
Minimum lot width                270 feet
 
      (2)   Principal and accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 30 feet
Front              30 feet
Rear               30 feet
Side               30 feet
 
      (3)   Septic systems. Sites on septic systems must be able to provide two
individual septic locations, a primary and a backup which are indicated on the
site plan.
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.064 RURAL RESIDENTIAL GROWTH/TRANSITIONAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the use and limited development of areas that
are within city limits, do not have practical access to city sewer and water
facilities, but will likely have such access in the future. This district is
intended to allow for limited development on private septic and well systems,
but provide for an orderly transition to a more urban development pattern on
public sewer and water infrastructure as the city grows.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Bluff setback (top/toe of bluff) 30 feet
Maximum height                   35 feet
Maximum residential density      1 dwelling unit per 2.5 acres
Minimum lot frontage             25 feet
Minimum lot size with CUP        20,000 square feet
Minimum lot size without CUP     108,900 square feet (2.5 acres)
Minimum lot width                60 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              25 feet
Rear               25 feet
Side               5 feet
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              Behind principle structure
Rear               3 feet
Side               3 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.065 R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the use and development of residential
structures, yards and directly related complimentary uses at a lower density
than traditionally developed in the originally platted city.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Bluff setback (top/toe of bluff) 30 feet
Maximum height                   35 feet
                                 4 dwelling units per acre maximum (except
                                 that, additional guest cottage up to 1,000
Maximum residential density      square feet or no larger than the principle
                                 structure is allowed per each principal
                                 residential structure on lots that meet
                                 minimum lot size)
Minimum lot frontage             20 feet
Minimum lot size                 9,600 square feet
Minimum lot width                60 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              25 feet
Rear               25 feet
Side               5 feet (except single-family attached homes which have no
                   side yard setback where attached)
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 3 feet
Front              Behind principle structure
Rear               3 feet
Side               3 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.066 R-2 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the use and development of a mix of uses typical
in the traditional city community including single-family and multi-family
residential structures and accessory uses, yards and associated uses, small
service and retail businesses and institutional and recreational uses serving
the residents of the community.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
Bluff setback (top/toe of bluff)     30 feet
Maximum accessory height             25 feet
Maximum height with CUP              35 feet
Maximum principle height without CUP 25 feet
                                     7 dwelling units per acre (except that, 1
                                     additional guest cottage up to 1,000
Maximum residential density          square feet and no larger than the
                                     principle structure is allowed per
                                     principle residential structure on lots
                                     that meet minimum lot size)
Minimum lot frontage                 20 feet
Minimum lot size                     6,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                    60 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 5 feet
Front              25 feet
Rear               25 feet
Side               5 feet (except single-family attached homes which have no
                   side yard setback where attached)
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 5 feet
Front              Behind principle structure
Rear               3 feet
Side               3 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.067 TDC TRADITIONAL DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for the continued use and redevelopment of the
downtown or central business district for mixed commercial, service,
recreational and residential use. This district is intended to promote the
preservation of the traditional historic downtown development pattern typified
by densely developed zero lot line structures, multi-occupancy (commercial,
service or residential) buildings and mixed use lower level commercial and
upper story residential use. A portion of the TDC district is also covered by
the Heritage Preservation District, as described in
Ch. 159 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Maximum accessory height             20 feet
Maximum principle height without CUP 35 feet
Maximum residential density          None
Minimum lot frontage                 5 feet
Minimum lot size                     None
Minimum lot width                    None
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street None
Front              None
Rear               None
Side               None
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Front              Behind principle structure
Side               3 feet
Corner side street 5 feet
Rear               3 feet
 
   (D)   District parking standards. The following amount standards for off-
street parking shall apply within the TDC District only and must be provided
within 1,000 feet measured from the nearest point of the structure to the
nearest point of the off-street parking lot. For uses allowed in the TDC, but
not indicated in the following chart, no off-street parking is required (unless
required within a CUP). Amount standards apply to new construction only,
including any building expansions. Expansion will require that the amount of
parking apply to the expansion area only. All parking design standards
contained within §
162.108 of this chapter shall apply to the TDC Zone. Additional parking may be
required on a case by case basis as part of a conditional or interim use
permit.
Use Parking Requirement
Use                                    Parking Requirement
Apartment buildings or mixed uses with 1 space per every dwelling unit
6 or more dwelling units
Commercial retail, professional
services, funeral parlors and minor    1 space per every 500 square feet
repair and maintenance services over
3,000 square feet of usable floor area
Hotels and motels                      1 space per every three rooms
Indoor commercial entertainment and
recreational facilities, cultural
institutions, restaurants, bars/       1 space for every 500 square feet
cocktail lounges, over 3,000 square
feet
                                       For any structure or development which
                                       involves more than 1 type of land use,
Mixed uses                             the total off-street parking required
                                       shall be the sum of the various uses
                                       computed separately
Office uses with over 5 employees      1 space for every two employees
Places of public assembly              1 space per every 6 seats or 1 space for
                                       every 10 feet of pews
Single-family attached residential     1.5 spaces per dwelling unit
Single-family detached residential     2 spaces per dwelling unit
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.068 G-C GENERAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for a coexisting mix of commercial and residential
uses in certain commercial nodes which are characterized by adjacent arterial
or collector roads or a waterway which provides a majority of business to the
establishment.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Maximum principle height    35 feet
Maximum residential density 7 dwelling units per acre
Minimum lot frontage        30 feet
Minimum lot size            8,520 square feet
Minimum lot width           60 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              25 feet
Rear               25 feet
Side               10 feet (except single-family attached homes which have no
                   side yard setback where attached)
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 5 feet
Front              Behind principle structure
Rear               5 feet
Side               5 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.069 HC HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for development or redevelopment of land for
commercial/business uses whose needs are, in terms of visibility,
transportation access, space, building design or outdoor usage, inconsistent
with the traditional downtown development patterns. A portion of HC is also
covered by the Business Park Overlay Design District, as described herein.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Maximum accessory height    35 feet
Maximum principle height    50 feet
Maximum residential density None
Minimum lot frontage        60 feet
Minimum lot size            10,800 square feet
Minimum lot width           90 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 20 feet
Front              25 feet
Rear               20 feet
Side               20 feet
 
      (3)   Accessory building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              Behind principle structure
Rear               10 feet
Side               10 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.070 I INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. To allow for development or redevelopment of land for
industrial, manufacturing, processing, warehousing, packaging or treatment of
products and also intensive commercial uses including those with needs for
outdoor bulk storage, services that support industrial businesses, or
commercial/service businesses that are not appropriate in other more
traditional commercial districts.
   (B)   Uses. See the Use Chart located in §
162.060 of this chapter for all permitted, conditional and interim uses.
   (C)   Standards; district performance standards.
      (1)   Lot standards.
 
Maximum principle height 50 feet
Minimum lot frontage     60 feet
Minimum lot size         21,780 square feet (1/2 acre)
Minimum lot width        90 feet
 
      (2)   Principal building setbacks.
 
Corner side street 10 feet
Front              10 feet
Rear               10 feet
Side               10 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.071 PUD PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of a planned unit development is to provide
procedures and standards intended to allow flexibility in development in order
to further the public interest by encouraging:
      (1)   Variety in type, design and placement of structures, open spaces
and amenities;
      (2)   Conservation of resources and more efficient use of land;
      (3)   Sensitivity to unique and valuable natural, cultural and scenic
characteristics;
      (4)   Efficiency of infrastructure with the consolidation of areas for
recreation and reductions in street lengths and other utility-related expenses;
      (5)   Transfers of density with clustering based on number of units per
acre instead of specific lot dimensions;
      (6)   Integration of compatible mixed land uses including single and
multi-family residential, low intensity commercial and institutional uses;
      (7)   Creation of cohesive high amenity neighborhoods or districts in
order to establish or preserve local identity or to allow infill within areas
of the city which are characterized by existing development; and
      (8)   The implementation of the goals identified in the adopted City
Comprehensive Plan.
   (B)   Scope.
      (1)   PUDs will be considered within any of the underlying zoning
districts where indicated as permitted or conditional.
      (2)   The PUD Overlay Zone shall only be considered when the proposed
project property meets the following minimum size standards:
         (a)   
 
GC                 No minimum
HC and I           10 acres
R-1, R-2 Districts 2 acres
 
         (b)   Minimum lot area. A residential PUD parcel located in an R-1 or
R-2 zoning district of less than two acres may be approved if the applicant can
demonstrate that a project of superior design can be achieved to meet one or
more of the identified objectives listed in §
162.071(A) and is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan goals and policies.
The Planning Commission shall authorize submittal of a PUD for a parcel of less
than two acres prior to submittal of a PUD Concept Plan application.
   (C)   Allowed uses. Uses allowed in PUD Overlay Districts are specified in
the underlying district permitted or conditional uses. If a conditional use is
proposed within a PUD, no additional conditional use permit is required to be
obtained, but additional conditions may be placed on the PUD. Specific uses and
performance standards for each PUD shall be delineated in the pre-application
meeting, concept, preliminary and final PUD and development agreement and those
uses shall become permitted uses with the acceptance of the PUD and agreement.
Any change of uses proposed after the preliminary PUD acceptance will be
considered an amendment to the PUD and will require an additional preliminary
PUD approval.
   (D)   Procedure for processing a planned unit development application. There
are four stages to the PUD process: pre-application meeting; concept plan;
preliminary PUD plan; and final PUD plan, as described below.
      (1)   Pre-application meeting. Before filing an application for a concept
PUD, the developer shall arrange for and attend a pre-application meeting with
the Planning Administrator or designee, City Engineer and other appropriate
regulatory agencies to review applicable ordinances, regulations and plans in
the area to be developed. At this time, the developer shall submit a concept
plan of the proposed development showing the proposed density, lots, building
layouts, uses, roadway and pedestrian layout, public and common open space and,
if available, the proposed connections to community facilities, surrounding
neighborhood information, existing natural resources and topography of the
site. The concept plan will be reviewed by city staff to provide an advisory
review for conformity to the provision of
Ch. 151 of this code of ordinances and this chapter without incurring major
costs prior to the submission of a preliminary plan and/or plat.
      (2)   Concept plan. Following the pre-application meeting, the applicant
will submit the concept plan to the Planning Administrator or designee to be
placed on the next available Planning Commission meeting. The Commission will
review the concept plan and make recommendations to the applicant.
      (3)   Preliminary PUD plan. Following the concept plan review by the
Planning Commission, the applicant may submit an application for a preliminary
PUD and plat approval concurrently (if applicable), with all supporting data
and documentation as referenced in the application. If there is no construction
of public right-of-way or significant construction within a public right-right-
of way and no construction of public utilities, the Final PUD Plan can be
reviewed and approved concurrently with the Preliminary PUD Plan by the
Planning Commission and City Council.
         (a)   The PUD application shall be filed with the Planning
Administrator or designee on forms provided with any necessary exhibits,
narrative and documents attached and in the quantity specified. A PUD
application with all the required documentation for a complete submittal will
be provided at or before the pre-application meeting to the owner and/or
developer.
         (b)   The city may excuse an applicant from submitting any specific
item of information or document required if they find it to be unnecessary.
         (c)   The city may require the submission of any additional
information or documentation which they determine is necessary for the propose
PUD plan.
      (4)   PUD plan and preliminary plat consideration.
         (a)   After verification by the city’s Planning Administrator or
designee that the preliminary PUD plan and plat, and rezone, if applicable, and
supporting data is complete, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing.
         (b)   After the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall report
its findings and make recommendations to the City Council. Notice of the
hearing shall consist of a legal property description, description of the
proposed project and rezone if applicable and be published in the official
newspaper at least ten days prior to the healing. Written notification of the
hearing shall also be mailed at least ten days prior to owners of land within
350 feet of the boundaries of the property proposed for development.
         (c)   The city may request additional information from the applicant
concerning any matters it deems appropriate or retain expert testimony at the
expense of the applicant concerning such other matters.
         (d)   The City Council shall consider the requested PUD after the
receipt of the report and recommendations from the Planning Commission within
the time allotted by state statute. If the Planning Commission fails to make a
report within 60 days after receipt of the application, then the City Council
may proceed without the report. The City Council may approve the preliminary
PUD plan and preliminary plat, and rezone, if applicable, and attach such
conditions, as it deems reasonable or deny the application.
         (e)   City Council may return the PUD to the Planning Commission for
further review.
      (5)   Final PUD plan. Following approval of the preliminary plan and/or
plan, the applicant may submit an application for final PUD and plat approval
concurrently (if applicable), with all supporting data and documentation as
referenced in the application.
         (a)   The PUD application shall be filed in writing with the Planning
Administrator or designee on forms provided with any necessary exhibits,
narrative and documents attached and in the quantity specified. A final PUD
application with all the required documentation for a complete submittal will
be provided to the owner and/or developer.
         (b)   Following the preliminary PUD approval, the applicant shall
within six months, submit the final PUD Plan for City Council approval. If the
platting is occurring simultaneously, the applications can be reviewed at the
same time
         (c)   The final PUD will be approved if City Council finds that it is
compliant with the approval of the preliminary plan.
         (d)   Rezoning: approval of the final plan shall be considered a
formal approval attaching the ‘floating’ PUD Overlay District to the parcel/
s proposed for the PUD. The city shall follow public notice procedures in the
same manner as a rezoning.
   (E)   PUD order certificate of compliance.
      (1)   Upon completion of all conditions and requirements of the PUD
imposed by Planning Commission and City Council, and consistent with state and
federal law and city code and with the other standards and requirements herein
contained, an order authorizing development and use in accordance with the
final approved PUD shall be issued by the Planning Administrator or designee.
The PUD order shall incorporate the final PUD plan and shall specify in writing
the final conditions of approval.
      (2)   All of the provisions of this chapter applicable to the zone
district or overlay districts within which the PUD is located shall apply,
except as otherwise provided in the PUD order.
      (3)   Upon approval by City Council, the applicant will record the final
PUD plan, plat and district regulations, if applicable, with the County
Recorder and provide a certified copy to the city.
   (F)   PUD performance standard guidelines.
      (1)   Height. The maximum height of buildings in PUDs shall not exceed 35
feet in height unless the City Council determines that a taller structure will
not create an adverse impact on the surrounding area. Under no circumstances
may a structure permitted as part of a PUD exceed 50 feet in height. In order
to assist in this decision, the city will require the following from the
project applicant:
         (a)   A detailed explanation as to the reason for the desired increase
in height;
         (b)   A detailed explanation of how the increased height will not
create an adverse visual impact; and
         (c)   Drawings or other visual renderings that show what the proposed
development will look like may be requested by the city.
      (2)   Open space requirements.
         (a)   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved as open
space, with at least 25% as common open space.
         (b)   Road rights-of-way, land covered by road surfaces, parking areas
and all structures are considered developed areas and shall not be included in
the computation of minimum open space.
         (c)   Open space may include improved outdoor recreational facilities
for use by owners, guests of the dwelling units, occupants of transient units
or the public.
         (d)   PUDs in a Shoreland Zone must contain open space meeting all of
the following criteria.
            1.   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way or land covered by
road surfaces, parking areas or structures, except water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space.
            2.   Areas with physical characteristics unsuitable for development
in their natural state and areas containing significant historic sites or
unplatted cemeteries must be preserved in the open space.
            3.   Open space may contain water-oriented accessory structures or
facilities if they meet or exceed design standards of shoreland standards in §
162.072 of this chapter and are centralized.
            4.   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks,
must be preserved as open space. For residential PUDs, at least 50% of the
shore impact zone area of existing developments or at least 70% of the area of
new developments must be preserved in its natural or existing state. For
commercial PUDs, at least 50% of the shore impact zone must be preserved in its
natural state.
      (3)   Erosion control and storm water management plans.
         (a)   Plans must be designed, and the construction managed, to
minimize the likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after
construction. This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of
time of bare ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment
facilities, vegetated buffer strips or other appropriate techniques must be
used to minimize erosion impacts on surface water features or storm water
systems. Erosion control plans approved by a soil and water conservation
district may be required if project size and site physical characteristics
warrant.
         (b)   PUDs must be designed and constructed to effectively manage
reasonably expected quantities and qualities of storm water runoff.
      (4)   PUDs within shoreland.
         (a)   Impervious surface coverage within any tier must not exceed 25%
of the tier area; except that, for commercial PUDs, 35% impervious surface
coverage may be allowed in the first tier of general development lakes with an
approved storm water management plan and consistency herewith.
         (b)   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into one or more
groups and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be designed
and located to meet or exceed the dimensional standards for the relevant
shoreland classification including: setback from the ordinary high water level,
elevation above the surface water features and maximum height.
         (c)   Shore recreation facilities, including, but not limited to,
swimming areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, must be
centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of suitability
must include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation, soils, depth
to ground water and bedrock or other relevant factors. The number of spaces
provided for continuous beaching, mooring or docking of watercraft must not
exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers.
         (d)   Structures, parking areas and other facilities must be treated
to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or other means, assuming
summer, leaf on conditions. Vegetative and topographic screening must be
preserved, if existing, or may be required to be provided.
         (e)   Accessory structures and facilities, except water-oriented
accessory structures, must meet the required principal structure setback and
must be centralized.
         (f)   PUDs must be connected to publicly-owned water supply and sewer
systems.
   (G)   City costs. Any costs directly related to a PUD including, but not
limited to, professional fees and expenses incurred by the city for
consultants, including, but not limited to, planners, engineers, architects and
attorneys, who the city determines in its sole judgment are necessary to assist
the city in reviewing, implementing or enforcing the provisions of this
chapter, shall be reimbursed to the city by the applicant from a deposit made
by the applicant with the city. The amount of the deposit, or any addition
thereto required by the city, shall be established by the City Council, which
shall thereafter, from time to time, make an accounting thereof to the
applicant. The city and the applicant may agree to share the costs of
consultants based upon a specific written agreement.
   (H)   Revisions or changes.
      (1)   Changes to a final PUD (map or text) will follow the same process
as a new PUD application. New conditions may be imposed based on criteria and
conditions in place at the time of the application.
      (2)   Applications for a minor change shall be submitted to the Planning
Administrator or designee and will be reviewed by staff and placed on the next
available Planning Commission for their review. If determined that the
requested change is “minor”, the changes can be approved administratively. The
applicant will record all documents with the County Recorder and provide a copy
to the city.
      (3)   If a plan or section is given final approval and, thereafter, the
land owner shall abandon the plan that has been approved or if the land owners
shall fail to commence the PUD within 18 months after final approval has been
granted, the approval shall terminate unless a time period is extended by the
Planning Commission upon written application from the land owner. The PUD
Zoning District created shall revert back to the zoning classification that
applied prior to approval of the PUD District.
   (I)   Phasing and guarantee of performance.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall compare the actual development
accomplished with a PUD order on a periodic basis.
      (2)   Upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and for good cause
shown by the developer, the City Council may change the development schedule as
required by the PUD order.
      (3)   The construction and provision of all of the common open space and
public and recreational facilities which are shown on the final PUD plan must
proceed at least at the same (but not slower than) rate as the construction of
dwelling units, transient units or other useable buildings in the PUD, if any.
The Planning Department shall review all of the building permits issued for the
PUD and examine the construction that has taken place on the site. If the City
Planner finds that the rate of construction of dwelling units, transient units
or other useable buildings in the PUD is greater than the rate at which common
open spaces and public and recreational facilities have been constructed and
provided, he or she may forward this information to the City Council with a
recommendation for action.
      (4)   A development agreement shall be entered into by the developer to
ensure completion of the PUD in a timely manner and that provides for security
for the performance of the developer’s obligation under the final PUD plan and
PUD order including a performance bond or letter of credit.
      (5)   Final PUD plan. Following approval of the preliminary plan and/or
plan, the applicant may submit an application for final PUD and plat approval
concurrently (if applicable), with all supporting data and documentation as
referenced in the application.
         (a)   The PUD application shall be filed in writing with the Planning
Administrator or designee on forms provided with any necessary exhibits,
narrative and documents attached and in the quantity specified. A final PUD
application with all the required documentation for a complete submittal will
be provided to the owner and/or developer.
         (b)   Following the preliminary PUD approval, the applicant shall
within six months, submit the final PUD Plan for City Council approval. If the
platting is occurring simultaneously, the applications can be reviewed at the
same time
         (c)   The final PUD will be approved if City Council finds that it is
compliant with the approval of the preliminary plan.
         (d)   Rezoning: approval of the final plan shall be considered a
formal approval attaching the ‘floating’ PUD Overlay District to the parcel/
s proposed for the PUD. The city shall follow public notice procedures in the
same manner as a rezoning.
   (J)   Control of planned unit development following completion.
      (1)   After a PUD order has been issued, the use of the land and the
construction, modification or alteration of any buildings or structures within
the PUD shall be governed by the PUD order, the development agreement and
applicable building and fire codes. After a PUD order has been issued, no
changes shall be made in the approved final PUD plan, except as provided in
this chapter or as provided below.
         (a)   Any minor extensions, alterations or modifications of existing
buildings or structures may be authorized by the Planning Commission if they
are consistent with the purposes and intent of the final PUD plan and PUD
order. No change authorized by this chapter may increase the square cubic
volume of any building or structure by more than 10%.
         (b)   Any building or structure that is totally or substantially
destroyed by fire or other casualty may be reconstructed only in compliance
with final PUD plan unless an amendment to the final PUD plan and PUD order is
approved under the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   Changes in the use of the common open space may be authorized
only by an amendment to the final PUD plan and PUD order under this chapter.
         (d)   Any other changes in the final PUD plan and PUD order must be
authorized by an amendment pursuant to this chapter.
      (2)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements, public
dedication and acceptance or other equally effective and permanent means must
be provided to ensure long-term preservation and maintenance of open space. The
instruments must include all of the following protections:
         (a)   Commercial uses not approved during the PUD process are
prohibited in the designated open spaces;
         (b)   Vegetation and topographic alterations other than routine
maintenance is prohibited;
         (c)   Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles and
other materials prohibited; and
         (d)   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord.
passed 4-2-2024)
§ 162.072 SHORELAND OVERLAY ZONE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This section is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in: M.S. Ch. 103, as it may be amended
from time to time; Minn. Regs. parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900; and the city
planning and zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Policy. The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects the
public health, safety and general welfare by contributing to pollution of
public waters and by impairing the local tax base. It is, therefore, in the
best interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the wise
development of shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and enhance the
quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and natural environmental
values of shorelands, and provide for the wise utilization of waters and
related land resources. The legislature of the state has delegated this
responsibility to local governments. The responsibility is hereby recognized by
the city.
   (C)   General provisions and definitions.
      (1)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the
shorelands in the city of the public waters identified and classified in
division (E) below.
      (2)   Compliance. The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and
shape of lots; the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the
installation and maintenance of water supply and sewage treatment systems; the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation;
and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
section.
      (3)   Enforcement. The Planning Administrator or designee is responsible
for the administration and enforcement of this section. Any violation of the
provisions of this section or failure to comply with any of its requirements
(including violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection
with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punishable as defined by law. Violations of this section can occur
regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated activity
pursuant to division (D)(1) below or §
162.028 of this chapter.
      (4)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statute.
      (5)   Estimated ordinary high water level.
River Mile Elevation (NGVD 1929) Feet
River Mile Elevation (NGVD 1929) Feet
762        671.5
761        670.8
Hwy 25 Br. 670.2
760        670.1
759        669.6
758        668.8
757        668.3
 
   (D)   Administration of shoreland regulations.
      (1)   Permits required. A zoning permit, as identified under §
162.028 of this chapter, is required for any structure, use of or alteration of
land, the construction of buildings or building additions (and including such
related activities as construction of decks and signs), the installation and/or
alteration of sewage treatment systems and those grading and filling activities
not exempted by divisions (G) and (H) below. Application for a permit shall be
made to the Planning Administrator on designee on the forms provided. The
application shall include the necessary information so that staff can determine
the site’s suitability for the intended use and that compliant sewage treatment
will be provided.
      (2)   Notifications to the DNR required.
         (a)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider
variances, zoning amendments (map or text), conditional uses and subdivisions
or plats within the designated shoreland must be sent to the Commissioner or
the Commissioner’s designated representative (typically, the area hydrologist)
and postmarked at least ten days before the hearing. Notices of hearings to
consider proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the subdivision/
plat.
         (b)   Upon final approval of a zoning ordinance amendment a
subdivisions/plats, a granting of variances or conditional uses located with
the designated shoreland, notification of the approvals must be sent to the
Commissioner or the Commissioner’s designated representative (typically the
area hydrologist) and postmarked within ten days of final action.
         (c)   When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural
Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance shall also include the Board of
Adjustment’s summary of the public record/testimony and the findings of facts
and conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
      (3)   Appeals and variances. An application for a variance shall be filed
in writing with the Planning Department as specified under §
162.030 of this chapter.
      (4)   Rezoning (modifications to underlying zoning districts within the
shoreland boundary). Any modification to underlying zoning districts within the
shoreland boundary shall be consistent with the goals, policies and objectives
of the adopted comprehensive land use plan, in conformance with the criteria
specified in Minn. Regs. part 6120.3200, subd. 3, or as amended, and the
following criteria, considerations and objectives:
         (a)   General considerations and criteria for all land uses:
            1.   Preservation of natural areas;
            2.   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
            3.   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
            4.   Topographic characteristics;
            5.   Vegetative cover;
            6.   In water physical characteristics, values and constraints;
            7.   Recreational use of the surface water;
            8.   Road and service center accessibility;
            9.   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve
water and related land resources;
            10.   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature,
requires location in shoreland areas; and
            11.   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
         (b)   Factors and criteria for planned unit developments:
            1.   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
            2.   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
            3.   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development
approach;
            4.   Level of current development in the area; and
            5.   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands.
         (c)   When an interpretation question arises about whether a specific
land use fits within a given zoning district or “use” category, the
interpretation shall be made by the Planning Commission.
         (d)   When there is a request for rezoning within the Shoreland
District, the applicant must provide the supporting and/or substantiating
information for the specific parcel in question indicating that the new zone
would meet the standards described in divisions (D)(4)(a) through (D)(4)(c)
above.
   (E)   
 
                             Protected Water          Protected Waters I.D.#
                             Classification
Robinson Lake                General development lake 79005 02
Schmidt Coulee (Brewery Cr.) Tributary stream         Legal Description;
                                                      T111N,R10W, Sec. 19 & 30
U.S. Lock and Dam No.4 Pool  General development lake 79005 00
(Mississippi Pool #4)
 
   (F)   Shoreland zones and requirements. Whenever allowed uses are not
consistent between the Shoreland Overlay Zone and the underlying zoning
district, the more restrictive of the two shall apply.
      (1)   S-1. The purpose of the S-1 Shoreland Overlay Zone is to provide
standards for shoreland areas within the city that are primarily undeveloped.
         (a)   Allowable uses.
            1.   Permitted uses:
               a.   Single-family detached residential dwelling units;
               b.   Accessory structures as allowed in underlying zone;
               c.   Forest management;
               d.   Sensitive resource management; and
               e.   Agricultural: cropland and pasture.
            2.   Conditional uses:
               a.   Parks and historic sites; and
               b.   Campgrounds.
            3.   Interim uses:
               a.   Grading, filling and excavation over three cubic yards per
100 square feet of land in the shore impact zone or on steep slopes, and/or
more than 1,000 cubic yards outside of shore impact or steep slopes (see also
division (H) below); and
               b.   Extractive uses.
         (b)   Minimum lot area and width standards.
 
                Riparian Lots Non-Riparian Lots
                Area   Width  Area   Width
Sewered areas   15,000 75     10,000 75
Unsewered areas 40,000 150    40,000 150
 
         (c)   Residential density.
 
          Riparian          Non-Riparian
Sewered   2.9 d.u. per acre 4.3 d.u. per acre
Unsewered 1 d.u. per acre   2 d.u. per acre
 
         (d)   Impervious surface coverage. Impervious surface coverage of lots
must not exceed 25% of lot area.
         (e)   Setbacks. Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure
setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones.
         (f)   Public waters. Public and semi-public uses with needs to have
access to and use of public waters may be located on parcels or lots with
frontage on public waters. Those uses with water- oriented needs must meet the
following standards.
            1.   Parking areas or parking structures must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening from the public waters
assuming summer, leaf on conditions.
            2.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
            3.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
unlit signs to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
               a.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff.
               b.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground and must not exceed
25 square feet in size.
               c.   Outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
         (g)   Agricultural use standards. For cultivation farming, grazing,
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, sod farming and wild crop harvesting
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones must be maintained in permanent
vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan (resource management
systems) consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation district or the United States Soil Conservation Service,
as provided by a qualified individual or agency. The shore impact zone boundary
for parcels with allowed (permitted or conditional) agricultural land uses is
equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the ordinary high water level.
         (h)   Animal feedlots.
            1.   New feedlots are not allowed in the Shoreland Districts.
            2.   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are
located within 300 feet of the ordinary high water level or within a bluff
impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the existing
ordinary high water level setback or bluff impact zone.
      (2)   S-2. Provides standards for shoreland areas that have some
development, but residential densities are intended to remain low (low density
residential land uses).
         (a)   Allowable uses.
            1.   Permitted uses:
               a.   Single-family residential dwelling units (detached or
attached) with up to four dwelling units;
               b.   Accessory structures as allowed in underlying zone;
               c.   Multi-family residential with up to four dwelling units;
               d.   Forest management;
               e.   Sensitive resource management; and
               f.   PUD with uses as allowed in underlying zoning district.
            2.   Conditional uses:
               a.   Semi-public uses (when allowed as permitted or conditional
in the underlying zoning district);
               b.   Parks and historic sites;
               c.   Campgrounds;
               d.   Mixed use (residential and commercial) with only those uses
allowed in the underlying zoning district;
               e.   Commercial and service oriented businesses (as allowed as a
conditional or permitted use in the underlying zoning district);
               f.   Golf courses, clubs and other recreational uses not
conflicting with neighboring residential use; and
               g.   Places of public assembly.
            3.   Interim uses:
               a.   Grading, filling and excavation over three cubic yards per
100 square feet of land in the shore impact zone or on steep slopes, and/or
more than 1,000 cubic yards in all shoreland areas (see also division (I)
below); and
               b.   Extractive uses.
         (b)   Minimum lot area and width standards.
 Riparian Lots Non-Riparian Lots
 Area Width    Area Width
           Riparian Lots Non-Riparian Lots
           Area    Width Area    Width
Sewered areas
   Singl14,000  75    10,000  60
   Duple26,000  135   17,500  120
   Tripl38,200  195   25,000  190
   Quad 49,000  255   2,5000  245
Unsewered areas
   Singl40,000  150   40,000  150
   Duple80,000  265   80,000  80,000
   Tripl120,000 375   3       120,000
   Quad 160,000 490   160,000 490
 
         (c)   Residential density.
 
          Riparian        Non-Riparian
Sewered   3 d.u. per acre 4.3 d.u. per acre
Unsewered 1 d.u. per acre 2 d.u. per acre
 
         (d)   Impervious surface coverage. Impervious surface coverage of lots
must not exceed 25% of lot area.
         (e)   Setbacks. Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure
setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
         (f)   Commercial, public and semi-public uses. Commercial, public and
semi-public uses located on riparian lots must meet the following standards.
            1.   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks
and other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures.
            2.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
            3.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
               a.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff.
               b.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
               c.   Outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
      (3)   S-3. Provides standards for shoreland areas that cover the historic
neighborhoods of the city, which are primarily residential, but also include
commercial and institutional uses. The use of PUDs or other clustering
techniques is not allowed in order to encourage the traditional neighborhood
pattern of development.
         (a)   Allowable uses.
            1.   Permitted uses:
               a.   Single-family residential dwelling units (detached or
attached with up to two dwelling units);
               b.   Multi-family residential with up to two dwelling units;
               c.   Accessory structures as allowed in underlying zone;
               d.   Sensitive resource management; and
               e.   Forest management.
            2.   Conditional uses:
               a.   Single-family attached residential with three or more units
(when allowed as permitted or conditional in the underlying zoning district);
               b.   Multi-family residential with three or more units (when
allowed as permitted or conditional in the underlying zoning district);
               c.   Semi-public uses (as allowed in the underlying zoning
district);
               d.   Parks and historic sites;
               e.   Campgrounds;
               f.   Mixed use (residential and commercial) with only those uses
allowed in the underlying zoning district;
               g.   Surface water-oriented commercial uses (as allowed in the
underlying zoning district);
               h.   Hospitals, dentists offices and clinics;
               i.   Places of public assembly;
               j.   Commercial and service oriented businesses (as allowed as a
conditional or permitted use in the underlying zoning district); and
               k.   Essential governmental uses buildings and storage
facilities (as allowed as a conditional or permitted use in the underlying
zoning district).
            3.   Interim uses: grading, filling and excavation over three cubic
yards per 100 square feet of land in the shore impact zone or on steep slopes,
and/or more than 1,000 cubic yards in all shoreland areas. (See also division
(I) below.)
         (b)   Minimum lot area and width standards.
 Riparian Lots Non-Riparian Lots
 Area Width    Area Width
                   Riparian Lots Non-Riparian Lots
                   Area   Width  Area   Width
Sewered areas
   Single       8,580  60     8,580  60
   Duplex       14,300 100    14,300 100
   Triplex      38,000 195    25,000 190
   Quad         49,000 255    25,000 245
   Multi > 4 uni49,000 255    25,000 245
   Non-residenti8,580  60     8,580  60
NOTES TO TABLE:
*All development in this zone must be connected to city sewer.
 
         (c)   Maximum residential density.
 
        Riparian and Non-Riparian Lots
Sewered 6 d.u. per acre
 
         (d)   Setbacks. Every effort should be made to design roads, driveways
and parking areas to meet structure setbacks. These will only be placed within
bluff and shore impact zones when other reasonable and feasible placement
alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they may be placed within these
areas and must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
         (e)   Non-conforming structures. A request for a variance (following
the process outlined in division (D)(3) above) will be considered for
reconstruction of pre-existing structures within the pre-existing footprint and
height if damaged more than 50% of the assessor’s market value for uses allowed
as permitted or conditional within the S-3 overlay and underlying zoning
district.
         (f)   Impervious surface coverage. Impervious surface coverage of lots
must not exceed 40% of lot area. Conditional uses may be required to provide up
to 75% non-impervious surface (25% impervious).
         (g)   Commercial, industrial, public and semi-public uses. Commercial,
industrial, public and semi-public uses located on riparian lots must meet the
following standards.
            1.   Parking lots shall be designed to incorporate topographic or
vegetative screening of parking areas from public waters when visible from the
waters.
            2.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
            3.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
               a.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff.
               b.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
               c.   Outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
      (4)   S-4. Provides standards for shoreland areas that are high density,
mixed use or commercial in nature historically or designated in the
Comprehensive Plan.
         (a)   Allowed uses. Uses as identified in the underlying zoning
ordinance shall prevail.
         (b)   Lot area and width standards. Standards as identified in the
underlying zoning ordinance shall prevail. All development in this zone must be
connected to city sewer.
         (c)   Impervious surface coverage. The following shall apply to new
construction or additions to an existing building footprint.
 
Type of Use                                Maximum Impervious Surface Coverage
Commercial, public or mixed uses of up to  No maximum
18,000 square feet (building footprint)
Commercial, public or mixed uses of 18,001 25%*
square feet or more (building footprint)
Residential with up to 2 dwelling units    50%
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Impervious coverage may be increased by 15% for these uses if the following
is provided:
   1. A storm water retention plan be submitted showing containment of the
five-year, 24-hour storm event on the parcel.
   2. Direct runoff of storm water to adjacent water bodies, including
wetlands and adjacent parcels, shall be eliminated through the use of berms,
filtration strips, swales or other permanent means.
 
         (d)   Setbacks. Every effort should be made to design roads, driveways
and parking areas to meet structure setbacks. These will only be placed within
bluff and shore impact zones when no other reasonable and feasible placement
alternatives exist. Evidence providing proof that such locations are not
feasible must be provided with application and found acceptable by the Planning
Administrator or designee or Planning Commission. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
         (e)   Commercial, industrial, public and semi-public uses. Commercial,
industrial, public and semi-public uses located on riparian lots must meet the
following standards.
            1.   Parking lots shall be designed to incorporate topographic or
vegetative screening of parking areas from public waters when visible from the
waters.
            2.   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons
must centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of
navigation and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need.
            3.   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use
signs and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards.
               a.   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the County Sheriff.
               b.   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore
impact zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to
convey needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters.
               c.   Outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
      (5)   Brewery Creek. Provides standards for the Brewery Creek Shoreland
area.
         (a)   Lot width standards. There are no minimum lot area requirements
for streams. The lot width standards are:
 
        Sewered Unsewered
Single  75      100
Duplex  115     150
Triplex 150     200
Quad    190     250
 
         (b)   Residential density. Densities of the underlying zoning district
will prevail.
         (c)   Impervious surface coverage. Impervious surface coverage of lots
must not exceed 25% of lot area.
         (d)   Allowable uses.
            1.   Permitted uses:
               a.   Forest management;
               b.   Sensitive resource management; and
               c.   Agricultural: cropland and pasture.
            2.   Conditional uses:
               a.   Parks and historic sites;
               b.   Campgrounds; and
               c.   Agricultural feedlots.
            3.   Interim uses: extractive use.
         (e)   Setbacks. Roads, driveways and parking areas must meet structure
setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
      (6)   Additional zoning requirements. The following standards apply to
areas within every Shoreland District. Setbacks from OHWL: when more than one
setback applies to a site, structures and facilities must be located to meet
all setbacks. Where structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a
proposed building site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to
conform to the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level; provided,
the proposed building site is not located in a shore impact zone or in a bluff
impact zone.
 
                                      Structure         Sewage Treatment System
                                      Sewered Unsewered
Brewery Creek                         50 feet 100 feet  75 feet
Mississippi Pool #4                   50 feet 75 feet   50 feet
Water-orientated accessory structure* 10 feet 10 feet   -
NOTES TO TABLE:
* One water-oriented accessory structure per residential lot designed in
accordance with division (H) below is allowed.
 
      (7)   Additional structure setbacks.
         (a)   The following additional structure setbacks apply, regardless of
the classification of the waterbody:
 
Setback From:      Setback
Top of bluff       30 feet
Unplatted cemetery 50 feet
 
         (b)   Setbacks from streets and property lines are required as
indicated in the underlying zoning district.
      (8)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
      (9)   Uses without water-oriented needs. Uses without water-oriented
needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters frontage or, if
located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set back
double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be substantially
screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
      (10)   Sewage treatment. A sewage treatment system not meeting the
requirements of division (O) below must be upgraded, when a permit or variance
of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the property.
      (11)   Vegetation alterations.
         (a)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of
structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and
parking areas regulated by division (I) below are exempt from the vegetation
alteration standards that follow.
         (b)   Removal or alteration of vegetation (except for allowable
agricultural and forest management uses) is allowed subject to the following
standards.
            1.   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff
impact zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing
for forestland conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable as
a conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is developed and
approved by the soil and water conservation district in which the property is
located.
            2.   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water-oriented accessory structures or facilities; provided that:
               a.   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities
as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
               b.   Along creeks, existing shading of water surfaces is
preserved; and
               c.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
         (c)   Use of fertilizers and pesticides in all districts must minimize
runoff into shore impact zones and public waters by use of earth, vegetation or
both.
      (12)   Guest cottage. One guest cottage may be allowed on lots which meet
or exceed the standards for a duplex within that shoreland zone. The following
standards must also be met.
         (a)   For lots which qualify for future subdivision, the guest cottage
must be located in proximity to the principle residence so that the structures
would remain on the same parcel if a lot split were to occur.
         (b)   A guest cottage must not cover more than 700 square feet of land
surface and must not exceed 15 feet in height.
         (c)   A guest cottage must be located or designed to reduce its
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by use of
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks or color (assuming summer leaf-on
conditions).
      (13)   Public waters. Lots intended as controlled accesses to public
waters or as recreation areas for use by owners of non-riparian lots within
subdivisions are permissible and must meet or exceed the following standards.
         (a)   They must meet the width and size requirements for residential
lots and be suitable for their intended uses.
         (b)   If docking, mooring or over water storage of more than six
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by 5% of the requirements
for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six.
         (c)   They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchasers of non-riparian lots in the subdivision who
are provided riparian access rights on the access lot.
         (d)   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that specify which lot owners have authority to use the access lot
and what activities are allowed. The activities may include watercraft
launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring or docking. They must also
include other outdoor recreational activities that do not significantly
conflict with general public use of the public water or the enjoyment of normal
property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of the non- significant
conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing or picnicking. The covenants
must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be parked and the total
number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored, docked or stored over
water, and must require centralization of all common facilities and activities
in the most suitable locations on the lot to minimize topographic and
vegetation alterations. They must also require all parking areas, storage
buildings and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or topography as
much as practical from view from the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions.
   (G)   Design criteria for structures.
      (1)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not
exist, along Brewery Creek, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including
the basement, is placed or flood-proofed must be determined as follows.
         (a)   By placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the flood
of record, if data are available. If data are not available, by placing the
lowest floor at least three feet above the ordinary high water level, or by
conducting a technical evaluation to determine effects of proposed construction
upon flood stages and flood flows and to establish a flood protection
elevation.
         (b)   Technical evaluations must be done by a qualified engineer or
hydrologist consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 to 6120.6200, governing
the management of floodplain areas. If more than one approach is used, the
highest flood protection elevation determined must be used for placing
structures and other facilities.
         (c)   Water-oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation determined in this item if the structure is
constructed of flood-resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind driven waves and debris.
      (2)   Water-oriented accessory structures. Each lot may have one water-
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in
divisions (F)(1) through (F)(5) above if this water- oriented accessory
structure complies with the following provisions.
         (a)   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet above grade at any point.
         (b)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high
water level must be at least ten feet.
         (c)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by use of vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color (assuming summer, leaf-on conditions).
         (d)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (e)   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities.
         (f)   As an alternative for general development waterbodies, water-
oriented accessory structures used solely for watercraft storage, and including
storage of related boating and water-oriented sporting equipment, may occupy an
area up to 400 square feet; provided, the maximum width of the structure is 20
feet as measured parallel to the configuration of the shoreline.
      (3)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space recreational properties and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open space recreational properties and
planned unit developments.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings or placed into the ground; provided, they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas;
provided that, the dimensional and performance standards herein are complied
with in addition to the requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 1340.
      (4)   Significant historic sites. No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
      (5)   Steep slopes. The Planning Administrator or designee must evaluate
possible soil erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters
before issuing a permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined
necessary, conditions must be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and
to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles and other
facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-
on vegetation.
      (6)   Height of structures. All structures in residential districts,
except places of worship and non-residential agricultural structures, must not
exceed the height limits specified in the underlying zoning districts.
   (H)   Topographic alterations/grading and filling.
      (1)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the construction
of structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways under validly issued
construction permits for these facilities do not require the issuance of a
separate permit. However, the grading and filling standards in this chapter
must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for construction of
structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways.
      (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by division (I) below.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (H)(1) and (H)(2) above, a zoning permit
will be required based on the following table unless a property owner provides
evidence that the fill meets the standards outlined in the State DNR’s
“Shoreline Alterations: Beach Blanket” publication (dated October 2012 or as
revised). *Amount of square feet is the project area where work is occurring
not the entire property.
 
                           Shore Impact (Within 25 Shoreland Outside of Shore
                           Feet of Shoreline) or   Impact or Steep Slopes
                           Steep Slopes
Under 1 cubic yard per 100 No permit required      No permit required
square feet*
Between 1 and 3 cubic      Zoning permit required  No permit required
yards per 100 square feet*
3 or more cubic yards per  Interim use permit      Zoning permit required
100 square feet*           required
1,001 cubic yards or more  Interim use permit      Interim use permit
total*
 
      (4)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, zoning permits, conditional/
interim use permits, variances and subdivision approvals.
         (a)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect the following functional qualities: (*This evaluation must also include
a determination of whether the wetland alteration being proposed requires
permits, reviews or approvals by other local, state or federal agencies such as
a watershed district, the state’s Department of Natural Resources or the United
States Army Corps of Engineers.)
            1.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
            2.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
            3.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
            4.   Recreational use;
            5.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
            6.   Note worthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, habitat for endangered plants and animals, or others.
         (b)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible.
         (c)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
         (d)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used.
         (e)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
         (f)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
         (g)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
         (h)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
         (i)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the DNR Commissioner under M.S. § 103G.245,
as it may be amended from time to time.
         (j)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
         (k)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading
of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted under the
following circumstances.
            1.   The finished slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to
one foot vertical or meets the average slope of the current bank throughout the
project area.
            2.   The landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the
ordinary high water level.
            3.   The height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level
does not exceed three feet or the meets the average height of the current bank
throughout the project area.
            4.   Along any shore open to the public (public land or right-of
way):
               a.   At least one pedestrian path or stairway for each parcel of
land under separate ownership is provided for access to the water; and
               b.   Placement of riprap will not cover beaches (areas typically
above water at normal water level) unless the DNR verifies the need in order
for shore stabilization.
         (l)   A zoning permit is required for excavations where the intended
purpose is connection to public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and
harbors. This may be issued only after the Commissioner of the DNR has approved
the proposed connection to public waters.
   (I)   Placement and design; roads, driveways, parking areas.
      (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography in shoreland areas where it
still exists to achieve maximum screening from view from public waters.
Documentation must be provided by a civil engineer or landscape architect that
all roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to minimize and
control erosion to public waters consistent with the field office technical
guides of the local soil and water conservation district, or other applicable
technical materials.
      (2)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and
access related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones, but must
be designed and constructed to take advantage of natural vegetation and
topography in shoreland areas where it still exists, to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters and minimize and control erosion to
public waters. Construction requiring grading and filling as identified in
division (H) above must meet all zoning permit requirements listed in that
division.
   (J)   Storm water management; general standards.
      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainage ways, wetlands and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter and retain storm
water runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
      (3)   When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle storm water
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
human-made materials and facilities
      (4)   When constructed facilities are used for storm water management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation district.
      (5)   New constructed storm water outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge.
   (K)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and associated
reforestation must be conducted consistent with the provisions of the state’s
Non-Point Source Pollution Assessment-Forestry and the provisions of Water
Quality in Forest Management “Best Management Practices in Minnesota”.
   (L)   Extractive use standards.
      (1)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate. Adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
      (2)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
   (M)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas
shall be subject to the review and approval procedures established in §
162.029 of this chapter. The following additional evaluation criteria and
conditions apply within shoreland areas.
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. The Planning Commission shall review the
application and consider the waterbody, the topography, vegetation and soils
conditions on the site and only issue a CUP where there are findings to ensure:
         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited in undeveloped areas and screened as deemed
appropriate in developed areas;
         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and sewage treatment; and
         (d)   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. The Planning
Commission, upon consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of
the shoreland section, shall attach conditions to the issuance of conditional
use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter and
the adopted Comprehensive Plan. Conditions imposed will be based on the goals
of maintaining or improving water quality and/or the scenic and natural
atmosphere from the protected public water. Conditions may include, but are not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
         (b)   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted;
         (c)   Special provisions for the location, design and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas
and vehicle parking areas;
         (d)   Requirements to connect to city sewer services; and
         (e)   Additional storm water management infrastructure or procedures.
   (N)   Non-conformities. All legally established non-conformities as of the
date of this chapter may continue, according to applicable state statutes and
regulations stated in divisions (F) and (G) above; except that, the following
standards will also apply in all shoreland areas:
      (1)   Lots of record in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds on
the date of enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the
requirements of divisions (F) and (G) above may be allowed as building sites
without variances from lot size requirements; provided, the lot has been in
separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the time
and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   A variance from setback requirements, if necessary, must be
obtained before any use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued
for a lot. In evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustment shall consider
sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and
shall deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
      (3)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of divisions (F)
(1) through (F)(5) above, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel
of land for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with
the one or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each
meeting the minimum lot area requirements for that area of shoreland as much as
possible.
      (4)   A deck addition to a structure not meeting the required setback
from the ordinary high water level may be allowed without a variance if all of
the following criteria and standards are met:
         (a)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
         (b)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
         (c)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does
not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
         (d)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not roofed or
screened.
   (O)   Sewage treatment.
      (1)   Any premises used for human occupancy must be provided with an
adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows.
         (a)   The city sewer system must be used where available.
         (b)   All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
State Pollution Control Agency’s standards for individual sewage treatment
systems contained in the document titled, “Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standards, Chapter 7080”, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   (a)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of
divisions (O)(1)(a) and (O)(1)(b) above must be upgraded, when a permit or
variance of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the
property. For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall
be considered conforming if the only deficiency is the setback from the
ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Sewage systems installed according to all applicable local
shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. § 103F.201, as it may be
amended from time to time, in effect at the time of installation may be
considered as conforming unless they are determined to be failing; except that,
systems using cesspools, leaching pits, seepage pits or other deep disposal
methods, or systems with insufficient separation from ground water shall be
considered non-conforming.
   (P)   Water supply. Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the state’s
Department of Health and the state’s Pollution Control Agency.
   (Q)   Subdivision provisions.
      (1)   Land suitability. Each lot created through subdivision, including
planned unit developments (PUD) must be suitable in its natural state for the
proposed use with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis shall consider
susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, steep
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near
shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water based recreation, important fish
and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
Information required as part of the subdivision process (as detailed in
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances) will be used to make a determination of
land suitability.
      (2)   Consistency with other controls. In areas not served by publicly-
owned sewer and water systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless
domestic water supply is available and sewage treatment consistent with all
other sections of this subdivision can be provided for on every lot. In
unsewered areas, each lot shall meet the minimum lot size requirements of that
district, and have at least a minimum contiguous lawn area that is free of
limiting factors sufficient for the construction of two standard soil treatment
systems. Lots that would require use of holding tanks must not be approved.
      (3)   Information requirements. Sufficient information must be submitted
by the applicant to make a determination of land suitability. The information
shall include at least the following:
         (a)   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals or less from United
States Geological Survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting site
characteristics;
         (b)   The surface water features required in M.S. § 505.021, as it may
be amended from time to time, to be shown on plats, obtained from United States
Geological Survey quadrangle topographic maps or more accurate sources;
         (c)   Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building
and on-site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolation
tests or other methods;
         (d)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent
of anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments and aquatic vegetation;
and proposed methods for controlling storm water runoff and erosion, both
during and after construction activities;
         (e)   Location of 100-year floodplain areas and floodway districts
from existing adopted maps or data; and
         (f)   Lines or contours representing the ordinary high water level,
the “toe” and the “top” of bluffs and the minimum building setback distances
from the top of the bluff and the lake or stream.
   (R)   Planned unit developments (PUDs).
      (1)   Planned unit developments (PUDs) are allowed in the S-2 shoreland
area for new projects on undeveloped land and redevelopment of previously built
sites.
      (2)   PUDs must be processed according to §
162.071 of this chapter.
      (3)   PUDs may utilize a tier system to allow for additional density
within the shoreland area, as based on the following:
         (a)   Shoreland tier dimensions (measured from the ordinary high water
level proceeding landward):
 
                         Unsewered (feet) Sewered (feet)
Brewery Creek            300              300
Pool 4 - first tiers     200              200
Pool 4 - all other tiers 267              200
 
         (b)   The suitable area within each tier is calculated by excluding
from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs or land below the ordinary high water
level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed project are then
subjected to either the residential or commercial PUD density evaluation steps
to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or sites.
      (4)   (a)   The base density for residential uses in the S-2 Zone is
indicated in §
162.071(F)(2)(c) of this chapter.
         (b)   Commercial uses may be incorporated into a PUD as long as all
zoning layers allow and be included within the density transfer process. For
the purpose of determining density of a commercial use:
            1.   Determine the average residential dwelling unit square footage
(interior living space) within the PUD project; and
            2.   Apply this to the proposed commercial unit, with each one
dwelling unit amount of square footage in the proposed commercial use being
equivalent to one dwelling unit.
         (c)   Allowable densities may be transferred from any tier to any
other tier further from the waterbody within the same zoning district, but must
not be transferred to any other tier closer to the water.
         (d)   Increases to the site base densities listed in division (F)(2)
(c) above are allowable only if the dimensional standards in division (F)(2)(b)
above, the general requirements stated herein are met, and the structure
setbacks from the ordinary high water levels is increased by 50% greater than
minimum setback or the impact on the waterbody is reduced through vegetative
management, topography or other means and the setback is at least 25% more than
otherwise minimum. Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density increases
for residential or commercial PUDs:
 
       Maximum Density Increase by Tier (percent)
First  50
Second 100
Third  200
Fourth 200
Fifth  200
 
      (5)   Existing resorts or other land uses and facilities may be converted
to residential common interest communities through the city platting process,
as outlined in
Ch. 161 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.073 EMERGENCY RESPONSE AREA (ERA).
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the emergency response area is to protect the
quality of the public water source, ensuring a safe and adequate drinking water
supply, by further regulating any potential harmful uses allowed within the
emergency response area of the wellhead protection plan.
   (B)   Scope. The ERA shall be defined and identified in the city’s current
wellhead protection plan.
   (C)   Appeals and variances. An application for a variance shall be filed in
writing with the Planning Administrator or designee, as specified under §
162.030 of this chapter.
   (D)   Rezoning (modifications to underlying zoning districts within the
ERA). Any modification to underlying zoning districts within the ERA shall be
consistent with the goals, policies and objectives of the adopted comprehensive
land use plan, the adopted wellhead protection plan (also as updated or
amended) and the following criteria, considerations and objectives: changes to
underlying zoning districts where the utilization, storage or transportation of
potential contaminants to the water supply shall be required to get a
conditional or interim use permit through this subdivision.
   (E)   Special notifications. Any changes to zoning district boundary or uses
allowed and all applications for conditional/interim use permits shall be
submitted to the City Engineer for review and comment. The City Engineer and/or
Planning Administrator or designee may submit information to State or County
Health Departments or similar agencies for advice or assistance. Rain gardens
or other infiltration structures may be subject to other regulations.
   (F)   Uses requiring a conditional or interim use permit. The following uses
within the ERA shall require a conditional or an interim use permit as required
in the underlying zoning district:
      (1)   Agricultural services;
      (2)   Animal feedlots;
      (3)   Contractor yards;
      (4)   Crop farming;
      (5)   Excavations;
      (6)   Excavation/mineral extraction;
      (7)   Extractive uses;
      (8)   Fill, filling or filling operations;
      (9)   Establishment of new private wells - major;
      (10)   Gas stations;
      (11)   Hazardous materials storage or use;
      (12)   Industrial services;
      (13)   Industrial warehousing distribution or storage;
      (14)   Industrial, heavy;
      (15)   Industrial, light;
      (16)   Institutional uses;
      (17)   Junkyards;
      (18)   Landfills;
      (19)   Mining site/operations;
      (20)   Nursery/greenhouses;
      (21)   Landscaping businesses;
      (22)   Repair and maintenance services;
      (23)   Retail agriculture;
      (24)   Sewage treatment systems; and
      (25)   Waste management facilities.
   (G)   Conditions. Conditions imposed will be based on maintaining the
purpose of this district which may include but are not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Structures and/or mechanisms for containment of potential
contaminant spills;
      (2)   Spill response plans;
      (3)   Security measures on storage areas;
      (4)   Storm water infrastructure which protects the water supply from
potential contaminant infiltration. Infiltration may be prohibited based on
MPCA rules;
      (5)   Site plans and road management programs (including salt application
management) of roads, parking lots or other similar surfaces in order to
protect the water supply from potential contaminant infiltration;
      (6)   Site plans and turf management programs (including fertilizer
application management) for open and/or vegetative areas to protect the water
supply from potential contaminant infiltration; and
      (7)   Evidence of required state and/or federal permits and required
monitoring programs.
(Prior Code, § 305.06) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 162.085 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose of the performance standards established in this
chapter are designed to encourage a high standard of development by providing
assurance that neighboring land uses will be compatible.
      (2)   The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions that cause blight or are detrimental to the environment.
      (3)   Standards shall apply to future development in all districts unless
otherwise noted.
   (B)   Before any building permit is approved, the Planning Administrator or
designee shall determine if the proposal will conform to the performance
standards. The applicant shall supply data necessary to demonstrate the
conformance.
   (C)   No land or building in any district shall be used or occupied in any
manner creating dangerous, injurious, noxious or otherwise objectionable
conditions that could adversely affect the surrounding areas or adjoining
premises; except that, any use permitted, by this chapter, may be constructed
and maintained if acceptable measures and safeguards to reduce dangerous and
objectionable conditions to acceptable limits as established by the following
performance requirements.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.086 FIRE HAZARDS.
   Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive
materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting and fire-prevention
equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the handling of
any such material. The hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities
to from a distance that is compatible with the potential danger involved.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.087 VIBRATION.
   No vibration shall be permitted that is discernible without instruments on
any adjoining lot or property. The standard shall not apply to vibrations
created during the process of construction.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.088 AIR POLLUTION.
   No pollution of air by fly-ash, dust, vapors, odors, smoke or other
substances shall be permitted which are harmful to health, animals, vegetation
or other property, or which can cause excessive soiling. For the purpose of
this chapter, the regulations and standards adopted by the state’s Pollution
Control Agency shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.089 REFUSE.
   All waste material, debris, refuse or garbage shall be kept in an enclosed
building or property contained in a closed container designed for such
purposes. The owner of vacant land shall be responsible of keeping the land
free of refuse.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.090 DWELLING UNITS AND STRUCTURES.
   All structures intended for the purpose of serving as a dwelling (with the
exception of those categorized as a manufactured home under M.S. § 327.31, as
it may be amended from time to time) shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   All residential dwellings shall be a minimum of 16 feet wide (measured
at its maximum width).
   (B)   All dwellings shall be placed on a permanent foundation which complies
with all standards and specifications of the Uniform Building Code as adopted
in the state. The foundation shall be solid extending the entire length and
width of the dwelling.
   (C)   New porches and decks shall be required to meet all setbacks. Pre-
existing porches and decks may be re-constructed as long as they are not
enlarged or expanded. Stoops and patios are not required to meet structural
setbacks. No porch, deck, stoop or patio shall be placed on any recorded
easements.
   (D)   All residential structures shall be required to have sewer and water
which meets State Health Code standards and §§
150.01 and
151.02 of this code of ordinances. The minimum lot size for individual sewage
treatment systems (septic systems) shall be determined by Minn. Rules Ch. 7090
(or as amended).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1725.jpg]
 
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.091 ACCESSORY STRUCTURES (PERMANENT).
   All accessory structures including those not requiring a building permit
(under the size of 120 square feet or as amended in the state’s Building Code)
shall meet the following standards:
   (A)   Meet all zoning district setbacks for accessory structures; and
   (B)   Shall not be placed in any required front yard for the zoning district
it is in.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.092 MINOR STRUCTURES, FENCES AND WALLS.
   Any small (under 200 - 120 square feet), movable accessory construction such
as birdhouses, tool houses, play equipment, arbors, as well as walls and fences
shall meet the following standards or as amended by the state’s Building Code:
   (A)   Be contained wholly within the property to which it belongs and set
back from property lines sufficiently to allow for accessibility and
maintenance;
   (B)   No fence shall be allowed to be constructed or maintained which will
obstruct road intersection sight lines or which will create a hazardous
situation for the public;
   (C)   All fences located within the required front or corner lot street side
yard (or setback) shall be:
      (1)   No more than four feet in height; or
      (2)   Meet the definition of an “open fence”.
   (D)   All fences over seven feet in height shall require a building permit
(or as amended in the state’s Building Code); and
   (E)   All retaining walls over four feet in height shall require a building
permit (or as amended in the state’s Building Code).
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.093 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   All temporary structures as shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   No temporary structure shall be placed within the required front yard
(setback) of any zoning district.
   (B)   Temporary structures must meet all setback requirements for the zoning
district in which it is located.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.094 PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   All portable storage containers shall meet the following standards:
   (A)   Shall be allowed for no more than 30 days for the purpose of loading
or unloading, truck sales, or similar short-term uses with no more than four
30-day periods within a one-year time frame;
   (B)   Location of the container shall be placed in the rear yard or on paved
or graveled driveway if in the front or side yard of a property; and
   (C)   Exception to these requirements:
      (1)   Where they are explicitly allowed uses; and
      (2)   For temporary parking during the loading or unloading of
merchandise.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.095 VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   See
Ch. 71 of this code of ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.096 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Lighting level should be the lowest possible for the purpose intended.
   (B)   All lighting installations shall be designed and installed with
illumination to be at a cut off of 90 degrees or less, except as in exceptions
in division (F) below.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.gif][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
72ea9b1dbe899c5e9614984ee9c9c982b3f639be/IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.jpg]
 
   (C)   Maximum lamp wattage for commercial lighting shall be 250 watts.
   (D)   Maximum lamp wattage for residential lighting shall be 100 watts
incandescent, 26 watts compact fluorescent.
   (E)   Light trespass shall be controlled with the proper choice of
luminaires and optics.
   (F)   The following are excepted from the above lighting standards:
      (1)   Lighting in swimming pools and other water features governed by
Art. 680 of the National Electrical Code;
      (2)   Exit signs and other illumination required by Building Codes;
      (3)   Lighting for stairs and ramps, as required by the Building Code;
      (4)   Signs are regulated by
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances, but all signs are recommended to be fully
shielded;
      (5)   Holiday and temporary lighting;
      (6)   Athletic field lighting (e.g., football, baseball, softball), with
Planning Commission approval, when steps have been taken to minimize glare and
light trespass and utilize sensible curfews; and
      (7)   Low-voltage landscape lighting, but such lighting be shielded in
such a way as to eliminate glare and light trespass.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.097 EXCAVATING AND FILLING OPERATIONS.
   When the following standards are met, excavation and filling operations are
allowed in all areas of the city with an approved grading plan issuance of a
zoning permit unless the property is covered by shoreland, wetland or bluff
overlay zones or similar environmental standards or regulations as specified in
any city, state or federal regulations that require additional permits or
approvals.
   (A)   Grading plans shall provide information indicating the following:
      (1)   The surface shall be prepared to receive fill by removing
vegetation, debris, topsoil and other unsuitable material and scarifying
(creating irregularities in the surface of existing soil) to provide a bond
between the existing soils and the fill material;
      (2)   All fill shall be compacted to 90% of maximum density as determined
by ASTM D 1557, Modified Proctor, in lifts not exceeding 12 inches in depth and
shall be allowed to sit idle over a winter season. If the proposed fill will be
supporting structural improvements (buildings, structures, pavements and the
like), greater compaction may be necessary, and a geotechnical engineer’s
recommendation may be required;
      (3)   No rock or similar irreducible material greater than four inches in
any dimension shall be included in the fill;
      (4)   The slope created by the fill shall be no steeper than is safe for
the intended use and shall not be steeper than 4H to 1V (25% slope) or shall be
justified by soils reports or engineering data;
      (5)   Slopes steeper than 4H to 1V are permitted only if approved by the
City Engineer;
      (6)   Where existing grade is at a slope steeper that 5H to 1V (20%
slope) and the depth of the fill exceeds five feet, benching shall be provided.
A key shall be provided which is at least ten feet wide and two feet deep;
      (7)   During excavation or filling operation the site shall be managed so
that it shall not present a danger from caving in or sliding banks. The site
may require fencing and erosion prevention measures which will be determined
and required at the discretion of the city;
      (8)   The site shall be properly drained with any drainage properly
managed during the fill process to best management practices. No cross property
sheet drainage shall be permitted;
      (9)   Erosion of the ground in the area of discharge during filling shall
be prevented by installation of non-erosive down drains or other devices.
Grading shall not create drainage patterns or routes that will adversely affect
down gradient properties;
      (10)   At the completion of a landfill or excavation/grading operation,
the premises shall be graded, leveled and all exposed soils shall be fully
restored with vegetation, mulch and/or a permanent non-erodible surface;
      (11)   Drainage across property lines shall not exceed that which existed
prior to grading. Excess or concentrated drainage shall be contained on site or
directed to an approved drainage facility;
      (12)   The site shall be left so that storm water drainage runoff and
storm water passage or flowage cannot become a source of, or an aggravation to,
storm water drainage conditions in the area; and
      (13)   The final elevation shall be determined and specified on the
zoning permit. Final elevation required by the city shall be based on:
         (a)   Existing elevation of adjacent streets and lots; and
         (b)   Elevation required for proposed structures to meet floodplain
requirements (679 feet) or hook up to city sewer.
   (B)   The filling operations shall not consist of garbage, animal or
vegetable refuse, poisons, contaminants, chemicals, organic or tree waste,
decayed material, filth, sewage or similar septic or biologically dangerous
material deemed to be unsuitable by the city.
   (C)   The filling operations shall only be allowed to occur between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, and 8:00 a.m. to 6:00
p.m. on Saturday.
   (D)   For projects with a land disturbance area of one acre or more, the
state’s Pollution Control Agency general permit authorization to discharge
storm water associated with construction activity under the national pollutant
discharge elimination permit is required (or as amended by MPCA). This permit
requires the development of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPPP).
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.098 LANDSCAPING.
   In all districts where setbacks are required and all developed uses shall
provide a landscaped yard, which may include among other items grass,
decorative stones or shrubs and trees, along all streets. In all districts, all
structures and areas requiring landscaping and fences shall be maintained so as
not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety conditions.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.099 TRANSPORTATION INTERCONNECTIVITY.
   All development shall provide for a connecting the segment of road, sidewalk
and/or trail on the development property to the adjacent property line where
such transportation routes have been identified within any plan or policy
adopted by the city.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.100 MAJOR TRAFFIC GENERATORS AND TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDIES.
   (A)   Any applicant or proposer of a development project (construction
projects of buildings, structures, streets or other infrastructure (existing
definition from §
162.013 of this chapter), which meets the definition of major traffic generator
shall provide a traffic impact study (TIS) that includes information necessary
to allow the city to assess:
      (1)   The transportation implications of traffic associated with a
proposed development;
      (2)   The existing and future capacity and condition of the affected
street system; and
      (3)   The growth of the transportation system may occur in a manner that
is comprehensive in nature and supportive of the public good.
   (B)   (1)   A TIS prepared consistent with the provisions of this chapter
will be required. All roads and intersections serving a proposed use must be
determined to be capable of handling the future projected traffic generated by
the use. No application for a development identified as requiring a TIS will be
deemed complete unless it is accompanied by a TIS. All projects requiring a TIS
will require a conditional use permit no matter the zoning district in which
the project is located.
      (2)   A traffic impact study shall identify:
         (a)   What improvements, if any, are needed to:
            1.   Ensure safe ingress to and egress from a site;
            2.   Maintain adequate street capacity and appropriate level of
service on public streets serving the development;
            3.   Ensure safe and reasonable traffic operating conditions on
streets and at intersections along the proposed route; avoid creation of or
mitigate existing hazardous traffic conditions;
            4.   Minimize the impact of non-residential traffic on residential
uses along the route; and
            5.   Safeguard the public investment in the existing street system.
         (b)   The road system investments to the city, county and state road
systems necessary to serve anticipated development.
      (3)   Traffic impact studies shall include the following information:
         (a)   An analysis of current and future traffic operations and
intersection improvement needs at all site access points in the affected
transportation routes. This operational evaluation shall include on-site
circulation as it may affect access, on-site and off-site turn lanes and
required vehicle storage, the potential need for signalization or other traffic
control, and review of sight distance, vehicle turning movements and other
intersection safety aspects. The proposed access plan should be consistent with
the standards of the city’s transportation plan (contained in the adopted
Comprehensive Plan or as amended) and with county or state requirements for
access management;
         (b)   An analysis of the impact of site-generated traffic on the level
of service of affected intersections and public streets along the proposed
route. Affected road segments or intersections are where the additional traffic
volume created by the proposed development is greater than 10% of the current
traffic volume (for road segments) or the current entering volume (for
intersections). Examples of possible effects include, but are not limited to,
pedestrian and bicyclist safety hazards, traffic noise or turning movement’s
conflicts with other driveways or intersecting roads;
         (c)   For developments expected to generate more than 60 heavy vehicle
trips per day, an analysis of the intersections and road segments these trucks
would use to enter and exit the city limits is required. Issues of concern
include structural capacity, impacts of slow moving vehicles on roadway safety
and the need for intersection operation improvements to accommodate truck
traffic;
         (d)   An analysis of the impact of the proposed development on
residential uses (where the abutting land use is predominately residential)
along the proposed route to identify any potential adverse effects of the
proposed development and mitigation measures to address any impacts. Examples
of possible effects include, but are not limited to: non-residential traffic
impacts on residential neighborhoods; pedestrian and bicyclist safety hazards;
traffic noise; or turning movement conflicts with other driveways or
intersecting roads;
         (e)   A detailed list of the transportation infrastructure
improvements needed to mitigate the impact of the development and estimated
costs of these improvements; and
         (f)   An explanation of how improvements that are identified to
mitigate the traffic impact of the development meet commonly accepted
engineering design standards and access management criteria.
      (4)   The TIS shall be led by a traffic or transportation engineer, or
other qualified professional with experience in the preparation of the
analysis. The city shall have the final approval of the selection of the
professional or shall employ other professionals (such as the City Engineer) to
review the TIS on the city’s behalf. The applicant shall be responsible for the
costs of preparation of the TIS and of the City Engineer’s review.
      (5)   The standards for traffic service that shall be used to evaluate
the findings of traffic impact studies are:
         (a)   Level of service.
            1.   The level of service standard for all highway corridor
operations (including freeway mainline, merging areas and ramp junctions, and
arterial and collector intersections or corridors) should meet the level of
service standards listed in the table below. Level of service should be
calculated using the Transportation Research Board’s Highway Capacity Manual.
Where the existing level of service is below these standards, a TIS shall
identify those improvements needed to maintain the existing level of service
and what additional improvements would be needed to raise the level of service
to the standards indicated; and
            2.   The Highway Capacity Manual estimates the quality of traffic
flow in letter grades, referred to as levels of service. A and B represent
uncongested conditions, C and D are approaching congestion and E and F are very
congested.
Levels of Service for the City of Wabasha
Land Use Street Type Level of Service
Levels of Service for the City of Wabasha
Land Use    Street Type              Level of Service
Commercial  City Street              MidC
Commercial  County State Aid Highway C/D Midpoint
Industrial  City Street              MidC
Industrial  County State Aid Highway C/D Midpoint
Residential City Street              B
Residential County State Aid Highway MidC
 
         (b)   Number of access points. The number of access points shall be
the minimum needed to provide adequate access capacity for the site. The
spacing of access points shall be consistent with the road authority’s access
management requirements. If the road authority has not adopted access
management requirements, then there shall be spacing of 300 feet between access
points, or the maximum available distance if there is less than 300 feet
between an access point and the nearest adjoining intersection or driveway on
an adjacent parcel;
         (c)   Residential street impact. Without mitigative measures, non-
residential development shall contribute no more than 20% of the traffic on any
local street for which residentially zoned property makes up more than 50% of
the street frontage;
         (d)   Vehicle storage. The capacity of storage bays and auxiliary
lanes for turning traffic shall be adequate to ensure turning traffic will not
interfere with through traffic flows on any public street;
         (e)   Internal circulation. On-site vehicle circulation and parking
patterns shall be designed so as not to interfere with the flow of traffic on
any public street and shall accommodate all anticipated types of site traffic;
and
         (f)   Safety. Access points shall be located and designed to provide
for adequate intersection and stopping sight distance and appropriate
facilities to accommodate acceleration and deceleration of site traffic. The
geometric design of access points shall meet the standards of the access
management requirements of the road authority connecting to the proposed
development site.
      (6)   The city shall require either the applicant or the owner or user of
the property on which the project is proposed to post a security in such form
and sum as determined by the City Engineer. The amount of the security shall be
sufficient to cover the city’s extraordinary cost and expense of repairing,
from time to time, any highways, streets or other public ways where such repair
work is made necessary by the special burden resulting from hauling and travel
for the proposed project. The amount of the security shall also be sufficient
to ensure compliance with all requirements of this chapter, and the particular
permit, and to pay the expense the city may incur as a result of the permit.
      (7)   (a)   The requirement for a transportation impact study may be
waived by the city after consulting with road authority representatives with
roads comprising any designated haul routes (the county’s Highway Engineer for
affected county roads in the county, the City Engineer for any affected city
roads, the District Engineer of MnDOT District 6 for state or federal highways,
or the town board or its designee for township roads), if it is determined
that:
            1.   A transportation impact study is not necessary to determine
needed road improvements on roadway access points or portions of haul routes
under their jurisdiction, and that for roadways and the intersections along
haul routes under their jurisdiction, no unsafe or hazardous conditions will be
created by the development as proposed;
            2.   The applicant has provided performance bonds or other
guarantees providing adequate assurance that anticipated damage to roads can be
mitigated and/or that unsafe conditions can be mitigated or avoided; and
            3.   The use is seasonal or short-term, less than three months in
total, with peak daily trip generation that exceeds the major traffic
generators thresholds, but whose annual average trip generation does not pose a
risk to the road infrastructure or traffic safety of the facility and adjacent
road network based on evaluation of the cumulative pavement impact expected and
geometric design of the roadway.
         (b)   This waiver shall not preempt the authority of the state’s
Department of Transportation to require a traffic study on any state or federal
highway nor the authority of any affected jurisdiction to require a traffic
study under an applicable ordinance. A waiver will not be granted to haul any
product that is deemed hazardous or a potential threat to the health of the
public.
         (c)   Applications for major traffic generator waiver shall be made to
the Zoning Administrator or designee on forms provided by his or her office.
Only one waiver will be granted per 12-month period per site. Completed
applications shall be forwarded to the City Engineer for review and then to the
Street Commission for consideration at an upcoming meeting. The application
must include:
            1.   A detailed description and map of the proposed haul route;
            2.   Number of daily and total trips requested,;
            3.   Haul days and hours; and
            4.   Any other data that the City Engineer might request to make a
determination on the waiver application.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.101 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   All projects shall be required to meet the state’s national pollutant
discharge elimination system (NPDES) and the state disposal system (SDS)
standards for sediment control.
   (B)   The rate of water run-off for post-development of any project shall be
the same as pre- development rates for the same property.
   (C)   Applicants/land owners may be required to provide to the city storm
water calculations and surveys of drainage ways to meet these requirements.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.102 WETLANDS.
   (A)   All projects shall be required to meet federal and state wetland
protection rules, in particular Minn. Rules Ch. 8420 and 6115 (or the state’s
Wetland Conservation Act or as amended).
   (B)   For this purpose, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   The Wabasha Soil and Water Conservation District (SWCD) shall be
the designated local government unit (LGU) administering the Wetland
Conservation Act (WCA).
      (2)   Any proposed project/development which has a likelihood of impact
on an existing wetland within the city may be required to conduct and provide
to the city and/or SWCD a wetland delineation.
      (3)   Any proposed project/development which has the likelihood of
creating a wetland (or feature which meets the definition of wetland under
state standards) may be required to conduct a pre-construction survey of soils
and provide to the city and/or SWCD a copy of that survey.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.103 BLUFFS.
   (A)   For all properties that contain or are contained within a bluff impact
zone, all development, construction and alterations to topography and
vegetation shall be conducted in a manner as to prevent bluff erosion and
preserve existing scenic values, water and soil qualities.
   (B)   For this purpose, the following standards shall apply.
      (1)   New structures and accessory facilities (with the exception of
stairways, lifts and landings) shall not be placed within bluff impact zones.
      (2)   Pre-existing structures located within a bluff impact zone may be
reconstructed, if damaged by fire, weather or other force of nature or act of
God; provided, the damage is less than 50% of the fair market value of the
damaged structure.
      (3)   Setback from the top and toe of bluff to any structure in any
district shall be no less than 20 feet.
      (4)   No person shall begin a new mining or quarrying activity within 300
feet of the toe or top of a bluff.
      (5)   No towers, with the exception of emergency towers, shall be located
within one-quarter mile of the bluff impact zone.
      (6)   Stairways and lifts may be allowed to access up and down bluffs and
steep slopes to shore areas or plains. All stairways and lifts on bluffs and in
shoreland areas shall be visually inconspicuous and meet the following design
requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts shall not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space recreational properties and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties, public open space recreational properties and
planned unit developments.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings shall be built in a manner that
ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landings shall be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water and lower areas, assuming summer leaf-on conditions, whenever
practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore and lower
areas; provided that, the dimensional and performance standards of divisions
(B)(1) through (B)(5) above are complied with in addition to the requirements
of Minn. Regs. Ch. 1340.
      (7)   No grading, excavating or filling is allowed within the bluff
impact zones, except for approved erosion control measures. Erosion control
projects within the bluff impact zone shall comply with divisions (B)(7)(a) and
(B)(7)(b) below.
         (a)   Altered areas shall be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with best management practices as described in the state’s
Storm Water Manual.
         (b)   Plans to place fill or excavated materials in bluff impact zones
shall be prepared by a licensed professional engineer for continued slope
stability, and approved by the City Engineer. All costs to be borne by the
applicant.
      (8)   The top or toe of bluffs shall be determined by the Planning
Administrator or designee and the applicant may be required to have a
registered land surveyor determine the location.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.104 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Where allowed in the zoning district, home occupations shall meet the
following minimum standards.
   (A)   The business shall be located within the principal dwelling structure
or an accessory structure of the property of the business owner.
   (B)   The maximum amount of space devoted to the business shall not exceed
25% of the gross floor area of the residence.
   (C)   No stock-in-trade shall be displayed so as to be visible from any
street.
   (D)   The occupation is to be conducted solely by members of the household
residing on the premises; except that, one person may be employed.
   (E)   No outside storage or materials, equipment or display of merchandise
shall be allowed.
   (F)   Conducting the home occupation shall not require substantial interior
or exterior alterations of the dwelling.
   (G)   Only signs allowed within the property’s zoning district shall be
allowed.
   (H)   The home occupation shall comply with all county, state and federal
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.105 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   On any land or within any structure in the city where hazardous
materials are used, stored or generated, the material shall be kept in a manner
which meets complies with all county, state and federal regulations.
   (B)   Applicants and land/business owners may be required to provide to the
city information on use and storage of the materials prior to the issuance of
any required or requested permits.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.106 SOLAR STRUCTURES AND SOLAR GARDENS/FARMS.
   (A)   Solar structures.
      (1)   Buildings or roof-mounted structures shall not exceed above the
maximum height requirement for the principal building and shall not extend
beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or
built.
      (2)   Solar structures must be setback from property lines a minimum of
100 feet or meet the accessory structure setback and locations for the
district, whichever is more restrictive, if not attached to a roof when
oriented at minimum design tilt.
      (3)   Solar structures, when not attached to a roof or building, must use
sun-tracking or a similar sun-tracking feature. Solar structures must be placed
at a same elevation to each other in the same row. A topographic exhibit
showing the proposed solar array heights must be submitted for review.
Additional section exhibits may be required to determine appropriate solar
array heights adjacent to existing structures or properties.
   (B)   Solar garden/farm. The minimum lot size for a solar garden/farm is
five acres with a maximum lot size of 30 acres.
   (C)   Screening. Solar garden/farm shall be screened from view of adjacent
residential zoning districts and public roads with native species of evergreen
trees planted by the property owner on the subject property in a double
staggered row along the property line. The property owner must also erect a
security fence along all property lines. Both the fence and row of evergreen
trees must be well-maintained by the property owner. The Planning Commission
may request a maintenance plan for the fence and row(s) of evergreen trees
during development review. Screening for solar gardens/farms as outlined in
this section must be accomplished to the greatest extent possible without
affecting their function.
   (D)   Abandonment. Any solar garden/farm which is inoperable for 12
successive months shall be deemed abandoned and a public nuisance. The owner
shall remove the abandoned system at his or her expense. A decommissioning plan
and a financial guarantee in the form of a bond, letter of credit, or cash
escrow will be required outlining the removal of all structures and electrical
components as part of the interim use permit.
   (E)   Power, communication lines. All on-site site power and communication
lines running between solar panels and buildings shall be buried underground on
the premises.
   (F)   Jurisdiction. Solar farms must meet any limitations or requirements
set by state statute or the state's Public Utilities Commission. Solar farms
that generate a capacity of more than 50 megawatts shall fall under the
jurisdiction of the state’s Public Utilities Commission.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord.
passed --; Ord. passed 4-2-2024) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.107 LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In general commercial, highway commercial or industrial zoning
districts, or in any commercial or industrial district, sufficient space for
the loading and unloading of vehicles shall be provided on the lot in
connection with any commercial or industrial use so that the public street
shall at all times be free and unobstructed to the passage of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
 
Gross Floor Space       Loading and Unloading Space Required in Terms of Square
                        Feet of Gross Floor Area
0 to 1,500 sq. ft.      None
1,501 to 10,000 sq. ft. 1 space
10,001 and up sq. ft.   1 space, plus 1 space for each 20,000 sq. ft. in excess
                        of 10,000 sq. ft.
 
   (B)   All spaces shall be of at least ten by 50 feet, or 500 square feet in
area, with a clearance of at least 14 feet in height.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018) Penalty,
see §
162.999
§ 162.108 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Adequate ingress to the parking lot shall be provided and all parking
spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering lanes.
Provision of adequate ingress and egress shall receive review and the approval
of the City Engineer or other officials as may be desired by the City Council.
   (B)   Parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine by 17 feet in size for
spaces arranged in a perpendicular lot layout or approved by the City Engineer
for other layouts.
   (C)   The following table of parking requirements for various uses shall be
applied to all new and expanded developments with the exception of those
located in the TDC Zone. (See §
162.067 of this chapter for TDC parking requirements). Allocation of the
parking areas should be indicated on the plans required for obtaining required
permits. Off-street parking shall be either on the same lot or within 300 feet
of the building it is intended to serve measured from the nearest point of the
building to the nearest point of the off-street parking lot.
AGRICULTURAL
   Crop farming                                                                  1 space per
                                                                                    employee
   Grain storage facility                                                        1 space per
                                                                                    employee
BAR/BREWERY
                                                                                    1 space per
   Bars/cocktail lounges, brewpubs, micro-distillery with tasting room and small 3 patrons
brewer with taproom                                                                 calculated
                                                                                    at maximum
                                                                                    capacity
INDUSTRIAL
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
   All industrial uses                                                           for each
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    stored on
                                                                                    site
INSTITUTIONAL
                                                                                    1 space per
   Cemetery                                                                      each
                                                                                    employee
   Communication towers and related accessory structures                         1 space per
                                                                                    employee
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    every 3
   Cultural institutions and community center                                    patrons at
                                                                                    maximum
                                                                                    capacity of
                                                                                    facility
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
   Essential utility and public service                                          per each
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    stored on
                                                                                    site
   Institutional                                                                  
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
      Church                                                                  plus 1 space
                                                                                    per 6 seats
                                                                                    at maximum
                                                                                    capacity
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
      Hospital                                                                plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each 2
                                                                                    hospital
                                                                                    beds
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
      Libraries                                                               plus 1 space
                                                                                    per 6 seats
                                                                                    at maximum
                                                                                    capacity
                                                                                    1 space per
      Nursing homes                                                           employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    per 4 beds
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
      Office                                                                  plus 1 space
                                                                                    per each 2
                                                                                    private
                                                                                    offices
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employees,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
      Post offices                                                            per 300
                                                                                    gross square
                                                                                    foot of
                                                                                    public space
   Schools                                                                        
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    every 2
      Commercial school (music, dance and the like) elementary school, public employees,
private school (other than a K-12 school)                                           plus 1 space
                                                                                    per 5
                                                                                    students.
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    each
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
      Secondary school                                                        per every 3
                                                                                    students (at
                                                                                    maximum
                                                                                    capacity) in
                                                                                    11th and
                                                                                    12th grades
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    8 seats,
                                                                                    which may be
                                                                                    calculated
                                                                                    out of the
                                                                                    parking
      School auditorium, gym, stadium and the like                            required for
                                                                                    the school
                                                                                    if parking
                                                                                    is within
                                                                                    300 feet
                                                                                    from the
                                                                                    facility
   State licensed residential facilities                                          
      Family day care                                                         1 space per
      Group family day care                                                   employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 per 5
                                                                                    attendees,
                                                                                    which may
      Supervised living facility                                              include
                                                                                    short-term
                                                                                    drop off
                                                                                    parking

MISCELLANEOUS
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
   Adult entertainment establishments                                            for every 3
                                                                                    patrons at
                                                                                    maximum
                                                                                    capacity of
                                                                                    facility
   Commercial kennels                                                            1 space per
                                                                                    employee
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    2 employees,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    shored on
                                                                                    site, plus 1
   Nursery, greenhouse, landscape business                                       space per
                                                                                    each 1,500
                                                                                    square feet
                                                                                    of area
                                                                                    devoted to
                                                                                    customer
                                                                                    sales and
                                                                                    service
                                                                                    Total
                                                                                    parking
   Mixed use                                                                     required
                                                                                    shall be the
                                                                                    sum of the
                                                                                    various uses
   Parking garage                                                                1 space per
                                                                                    employee
OFFICE
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
   Medical, denial and animal clinic                                             plus 1 space
                                                                                    for every 2
                                                                                    exam rooms
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
   Professional use                                                              plus 1 space
                                                                                    per each 2
                                                                                    offices
RECREATIONAL
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    every 3 boat
                                                                                    slips, plus
                                                                                    overflow
                                                                                    parking at 1
   Marinas                                                                       per 2 boat
                                                                                    slips, plus
                                                                                    parking
                                                                                    needed for
                                                                                    all other
                                                                                    mixed uses
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    per 3
                                                                                    patrons at
   Recreational entertainment facility; major and minor                          maximum
                                                                                    capacity,
                                                                                    plus parking
                                                                                    needed for
                                                                                    all other
                                                                                    mixed uses
RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    dwelling
                                                                                    unit, plus
   Accessory/caretaker apartments and guest cottage                              spaces
                                                                                    required for
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    principal
                                                                                    use
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    each room or
                                                                                    guest unit,
   Bed and breakfast                                                             plus spaces
                                                                                    required for
                                                                                    the
                                                                                    principal
                                                                                    use
                                                                                    1 space per
   Campgrounds and travel trailer parks                                          employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    per campsite
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    room, plus 1
                                                                                    space per
   Hotels and motels                                                             each
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus parking
                                                                                    required for
                                                                                    mixed uses
   Mobile home park                                                              2 spaces per
                                                                                    lot
                                                                                    1.5 spaces
   Multi-family dwellings                                                        per number
                                                                                    of dwelling
                                                                                    units
                                                                                    2 spaces per
   Single-family detached residential                                            dwelling
                                                                                    unit
RETAIL
   Auto sales                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
   Car wash                                                                      plus see
                                                                                    drive-thru
                                                                                    requirements
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each 200
                                                                                    square feet
                                                                                    of retail
   Commercial retail                                                             space, plus
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each vehicle
                                                                                    stored on
                                                                                    site
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    1 employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
   Contractor or construction yards                                              for each
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    stored on
                                                                                    site
                                                                                    3 inbound
                                                                                    and 1
   Drive-thru                                                                    outbound
                                                                                    spaces per
                                                                                    service lane
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employees,
   Gas station                                                                   plus see
                                                                                    drive thru
                                                                                    requirements
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    every 1,500
   Open sales, service, rental lot                                               square feet
                                                                                    of sales or
                                                                                    service area
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
   Restaurants                                                                   per 4
                                                                                    patrons at
                                                                                    maximum
                                                                                    capacity
SERVICE
                                                                                    1 space per
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    per 6 seats
                                                                                    at maximum
   Funeral parlor                                                                capacity,
                                                                                    plus 1 space
                                                                                    for each
                                                                                    vehicle
                                                                                    stored on
                                                                                    site
                                                                                    1 space for
                                                                                    each
                                                                                    employee,
                                                                                    plus spaces
                                                                                    equaling 3
                                                                                    times the
   Minor repair and maintenance services                                         capacity of
                                                                                    the service
                                                                                    bays, plus 1
                                                                                    space for
                                                                                    each vehicle
                                                                                    stored on
                                                                                    site
   Self-storage facility                                                         1 space per
                                                                                    employee
 
   (D)   The following standards shall apply in the calculation of spaces
required for off-street parking (in all districts).
      (1)   When calculation of the number of required off-street parking
spaces results in a fraction, the fraction shall be rounded up to the next
highest number.
      (2)   When the number of off-street parking spaces is based on the
maximum number of persons or patrons, this shall be defined by Building or Fire
Code requirements.
      (3)   When the number of off-street parking spaces is based on the number
of employees, this shall be defined by the number of employees at the facility
during the largest shift regardless of full-time status.
      (4)   In cases where future potential uses of a building or development
site will generate additional parking demand, the city may require a proof of
parking plan for the difference between minimum parking requirements and the
anticipated future demand.
      (5)   The Planning Commission may consider reducing the number of spaces
required for passenger vehicles owned by the business if evidence is provided
that adequate storage is being provided off-site.
   (E)   The parking requirement for uses not listed in this section may be
established by the city based on the characteristics of the use and available
information on parking demand for such use.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall consider varying the amount, location
and design requirements for parking in PUDs if a finding is made that changing
standards provides adequate parking for the proposed development and better
meets the goals of §
162.071 of this chapter.
   (G)   Parking lots with more than five parking stalls shall be graded,
drained, and have a dust free surface.
   (H)   There shall be no off street parking space within five feet of any
street right-of-way.
   (I)   Required off-street parking space in any district shall not be
utilized for the open storage of goods or for the storage of vehicles which are
inoperable or for sale or rent.
   (J)   When a required off-street parking space for five cars or more is
located adjacent to a residentially zoned lot, a six foot screened solid fence
or ten foot wide landscape buffer approved by the Zoning Administrator shall be
erected alongside the residential district property line.
(Prior Code, § 305.07) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018; Ord.
passed 4-2-2024) Penalty, see §
162.999
§ 162.109 CANNABIS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority and jurisdiction. The City of Wabasha has delegated all
cannabis and lower- potency hemp edible use registration, regulation, and
enforcement authority to Wabasha County pursuant to:
      (1)   M.S. § 342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of
the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis business provided
that such restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation of
cannabis businesses;
      (2)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses;
      (3)   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the use of cannabis in public places; and
      (4)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding
the authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
   (B)   This section shall be applicable to the legal boundaries within the
City of Wabasha.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 162.110 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   The following standards shall apply to all outdoor storage uses.
   (A)   (1)   In non-residential districts, all outdoor storage, all outdoor
sales and/or all outdoor service uses which are allowed by other provisions of
this section, except commercial retail, shall be screened from all public views
and from adjacent residential uses and residential zoning districts unless
approved in writing by the city.
      (2)   Sales uses such as automobile sales lots, located along arterial or
collector roadways selling automobiles, boats and/or recreational vehicles with
no outdoor storage or outdoor service, screening will only be required adjacent
to residential districts, residential uses or any incompatible uses as
determined by the city.
   (B)   All outdoor storage, sales or service uses, excluding residential and
commercial retail uses, will require an interim use permit. In the event an
outdoor storage use is determined to be a legal nonconforming use, such a use
will not be required to obtain a conditional or interim use permit.
   (C)   In residential districts, materials and equipment must be stored
within a building or be fully screened so as not to be visible from adjoining
properties, except for the following in good order: laundry; firewood;
agricultural equipment and materials; construction and landscaping materials
and equipment, if currently being used on the property; and off-street parking
of vehicles, if currently being used on the property.
   (D)   Required screening or buffering may be achieved with fences, walls,
earth berms, established hedges or landscape materials. All walls and fences
shall be architecturally harmonious with the principal building. Earth berms
shall not exceed a slope of 3:1. The required screen shall be designed with
materials which provide an effective visual barrier during all seasons.
   (E)   All required screening or buffering must be in place before the use
begins unless another specified time frame is determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (F)   All required screening or buffering shall be located on the lot
occupied by the use or building to be screened. No screening or buffering shall
be located on any public right-of-way or within sight visibility triangles as
defined in §
162.014.
   (G)   Screening or buffering required by this section shall be of a height
needed to accomplish the goals of this section and will be defined as a
condition during the use permit process. All fences and walls constructed must
meet the standards found in §
162.092.
   (H)   In all districts, the city may require an interim or conditional use
permit for any exterior storage if it is demonstrated that such storage is a
hazard to the public health and safety or has a depreciating effect upon nearby
property values, or impairs scenic views or constitutes a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 8-5-2025)
NON-CONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LOTS
§ 162.120 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to provide for the regulation of non-
conforming buildings, structures and uses and to specify those requirements,
circumstances and conditions under which non- conforming buildings, structures
and uses will be operated and maintained. It is necessary and consistent with
the establishment of zoning districts that non-conforming buildings, structures
and uses not be permitted to continue without restriction. Furthermore, it is
the intent of this chapter that all non-conforming uses shall eventually
brought into conformity.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.121 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPAND or EXPANSION. Any increase in a dimension, size, area, volume or
height, any increase in the area of use, any placement of a structure or part
thereof where none existed before; any addition to a site feature such as a
deck, patio, fence, driveway, parking area or swimming pool; any improvement
that would allow the land to be more intensely developed; any move of
operations to a new location on the property; any increase in intensity of use
based on a review of the original nature, function or purpose of the non-
conforming use; increase in the hours of operation, traffic, parking, noise,
exterior storage, signs, exterior lighting, types of operations, types of goods
or services offered, odors, area of operation, number of employees or such
other factors deemed relevant by the city.
   IMPROVEMENT. Making the non-conforming use better, more efficient or
aesthetically pleasing, including any change that does not replicate what pre-
existed. A mere expansion, enlargement or intensification of a non-conforming
use does not constitute an improvement for that reason alone.
   NON-CONFORMING LAND USE. An activity using land, a building or structure, or
a combination thereof, for a purpose that was lawful when established and which
is not permitted by the provisions of existing land use regulations.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure that was constructed in compliance
with the land use regulations in effect at that time with respect to certain
standards such as location, height, setback or size, but no longer complies in
that regard with existing land use regulations.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot that was lawfully established prior to adoption or
applicable amendment of this chapter, which fails to conform to the present
area or dimensional requirements of this chapter.
   REPLACEMENT, RECONSTRUCTION or RESTORATION. The repair of a building or
structure that duplicates the condition of the building prior that existed
prior to the construction activity.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.122 RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, subd. 1e, as it may be amended from time to
time, any non-conformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land or
premises existing at the time a city code amendment created the non-conformity,
may be continued with any necessary approvals, including through repair,
replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement, but not including
expansion, unless authorized by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.123 LAWFUL NON-CONFORMITY.
   The burden of proof to show a lawful non-conformity rests with the applicant
and/or property owner. Documentation as to a non-conformity existing prior to
adoption or changes to this chapter of city code may be required if an
application for any permit or zoning action is received.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.124 EXPANSION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Lawful non-conforming uses and structures may not expand or intensify
unless allowed to do so under this chapter or by other law (such as with the
issuance of a special permit, if require). Only that portion of the land or
structure in actual use may be so continued and the structure may not be
extended, enlarged, reconstructed, substituted, moved or structurally altered,
except when required to do so by law or order or so as to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, unless the value of the extension, enlargement,
reconstruction, substitution or structural alteration of the structure does not
exceed 50% of the assessor’s market value of the structure at the time of the
alteration and a building permit for the alterations is submitted to the city
for approval within 180 days of the date of the removal or damage.
   (B)   Substitution of new equipment or similar changes related to the non-
conforming use may be permitted by the Board of Adjustment if such equipment or
change will reduce the incompatibility of the non-conforming use with the
neighboring uses. Application for the approval will follow the process of
appeals. (See §
162.031 of this chapter.)
   (C)   If the non-conforming use is discounted or terminated for a period of
12 months, any future use of the structure or land shall conform to the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.125 CHANGES AND SUBSTITUTIONS.
   Once a non-conforming use or structure has been changed to conform, it shall
not revert back to a non-conforming use or structure.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.126 SUBSTANDARD LOTS.
   In any district, an allowable use and its accessory structures may be
erected on any lawful non- conforming lot or parcel; providing, the lot or
parcel was of record in the office of the county’s Register of Deeds before the
effective date of the ordinance establishing the minimum lot standard. The lot
or parcel shall be in separate ownership from abutting lands, if abutting lands
and the substandard lot are owned by the same owner, the substandard lot shall
not be sold or used without full compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. If, in separate ownership, all other district requirements (uses,
setbacks, building heights and the like) shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 305.08) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
§ 162.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who fails to comply with the provisions of
this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor,
subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both. Each day a violation exists or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 305.03) (Ord. passed 12-18-2007; Ord. passed 7-2-2018)
CHAPTER 163: OUTDOOR SOLID WOOD BURNERS
Section
   
163.01   Purpose
   
163.02   Applicability
   
163.03   Definitions
   
163.04   Prohibition
   
163.05   Non-conforming use
   
163.06   Liability
 
   
163.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Ch. 92
§ 163.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to promote the public health, safety and welfare
and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and welfare of
the citizens of the City of Wabasha by regulating the air pollution and fire
hazards of outdoor solid fuel burners.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 163.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter applies to all outdoor solid fuel burners within the City of
Wabasha.
   (A)   This chapter does not apply to grilling or cooking food using
charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas in appliances intended for cooking or
grilling other than outdoor solid fuel burners.
   (B)   This chapter does not apply to burning for the purpose of generating
heat in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device within a building
used for human or animal habitation.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to the use of propane, acetylene, natural
gas, gasoline or kerosene in a device intended for heating, construction or
maintenance activities.
   (D)   This chapter does not apply to campfires which are small outdoor fires
on the ground using clean wood intended for recreation or cooking. However, it
shall be unlawful for any person to create a campfire intended for disposal of
waste wood, garbage, or refuse.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 163.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLEAN WOOD. Natural wood which has not been painted, varnished or coated
with a similar material, has not been pressure treated with preservatives, and
does not contain any manufactured resin or glue as do plywood or other
composite wood products.
   CONSTRUCTION AND DEMOLITION DEBRIS. Waste material, including, but not
limited to: shingles; siding; insulation; tar paper or plastic wrap; gypsum or
wall board; treated wood; painted wood; wiring; plastic (including pipe);
packaging and rubble; or other similar material capable of causing smoke when
burned that results from building construction, remodeling, repair, maintenance
or demolition activity.
   GARBAGE. Any of the following material: food waste; food wrap; cardboard,
newspaper or other paper product containing ink or dye; packaging; animal
carcass; paint or painted material; furniture; construction and demolition
debris; household or business waste; asphalt or a product containing asphalt;
treated or painted wood, plywood or any composite wood product, or any wood
product that is painted, varnished or treated with a preservative; any plastic
product or container including those composed of nylon, PVC, ABS, polystyrene
or urethane foam; synthetic fabric; rubber or synthetic rubber products
including tires.
   OUTDOOR SOLID FUEL BURNER. A fired burner, stove, or furnace located within
a stand-alone structure designed to be used solely for the purpose of providing
heat or hot water to a separate structure by the burning of clean wood or other
solid fuel.
   REFUSE. Any waste material, including wood, brush, grass clippings or other
vegetative matter.
Solid fuel means a material not liquid or gaseous that is capable of being
burned in a fireplace, stove, furnace or boiler to provide heat and that is not
classified as: construction debris; garbage; or refuse under the provisions of
the ordinance from which this chapter derives.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 163.04 PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful for any person to use an outdoor solid fuel burner to provide
heat or hot water to any building designed for human or animal habitation
within the following zoning districts: RRGT, R-1, R-2, TDC, GC, HC, or I.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 163.05 NON-CONFORMING USE.
   (A)   The lawful use of any existing outdoor wood-burning unit or outdoor
solid fuel-fired heating device existing at the time of the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, although such use may not conform to the
provision of this chapter.
   (B)   No pre-existing, non-conforming outdoor wood-burning unit or outdoor
solid fuel-fired heating device shall hereafter be replaced, extended,
enlarged, or expanded.
   (C)   At such time as the useful life of an outdoor non-conforming wood-
burning unit or outdoor solid fuel-fired heating device has elapsed or would
need to be repaired to function properly, the unit cannot be replaced and must
be abandoned, not used, and removed from the property immediately.
   (D)   All outdoor wood burning or solid fuel burners in existence prior to
the date that this chapter was adopted must be registered and recorded at City
Hall. Owner must supply the following information to City Hall: date the solid
fuel burner was installed, manufacturer name, model number, and a photocopy of
the manufacturers’ recommendations and operating instructions, and the last
time the owner maintained the device per manufacturers’ recommendations. The
city may also require inspections of the devices.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 163.07 LIABILITY.
   A person utilizing or maintaining an outdoor solid fuel burner shall be
responsible for all fire suppression costs incurred by the city or its
authorized agents and any other liability resulting from damage caused by the
fire.
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 163.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating a provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $1,000 or up to 90 days in jail or
both.
(Ord. passed - -)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                    Code Section
12.25                         33.01,
                              33.04
12.37                         33.06
Ch. 13                        30.01;
                              30.02
14.57 to 14.69                111.33;
                              111.99
18.83                         157.08
65B.49, subd. 3               72.06
84.872                        72.25
84.92 to 84.929               72.47
86B.005, subd. 9              93.15
86B.005, subd. 14a            93.01
93.44 to 93.51                158.002;
                              162.013
Ch. 103                       162.072
Ch. 103F                      160.01
103F.201                      162.072
Ch. 103G                      160.26
103G.005, subd. 15            162.013
103G.005, subd. 19            162.013
103G.245                      162.072
103G.291                      52.02
103G.291, subd. 1             52.02
Ch. 103I                      158.078
115.01, subd. 5               53.01
115.01, subd. 20              53.08
115.07                        53.01
115A.03                       162.013
116D.04                       158.004
116D.045                      158.004
138.17                        159.25
144.391                       113.01
145A.04, subd. 8 and 9        50.07
145A.08, subd. 2              50.07
152.0263, subd. 5             162.109
157.16                        111.03
168.09                        70.07
168.11                        70.07
168.011                       70.07
168.27                        70.07
168.36                        70.07
168B.10                       70.08
                              70.01;
Ch. 169                       71.27;
                              72.05
169.01 et seq.                71.16
169.01                        70.01
169.011, subd. 42             72.45;
                              72.48
169.011, subd. 44, 45 and 52  72.45
169.045                       72.01;
                              72.05
169.121                       72.26;
                              72.48
169.522                       72.05
171.01                        70.07
171.02                        70.07
171.03                        70.07
171.05                        70.07
171.08                        70.07
171.09                        70.07
171.11                        70.07
171.17                        70.07
171.18                        70.07
171.20                        70.07
171.22                        70.07
171.23                        70.07
171.24                        70.07
Ch. 191                       160.01
Ch. 216D                      112.06
Ch. 216F                      154.02;
                              154.04
222.37                        112.09
Ch. 238                       112.01
243.166                       134.03
243.167                       134.03
244.052                       134.02
Ch. 253B                      134.02
260B.198                      132.99
261.02                        93.01
273.124, subd. 3              117.01
299F.73                       158.004
299F.74                       158.004
307.08                        162.013
309.53                        114.24 
326B.101 to 326B.194          150.01
326B.148                      150.03
326B.151                      150.03
327.31                        162.090
Ch. 329                       116.03
                              111.01;
                              111.02;
Ch. 340A                      111.20;
                              111.23;
                              111.33;
                              111.99
340A.101                      111.03;
                              111.22
340A.301, subd. 6(d) and 8(b) 111.22
340A.301, subd. 8             111.22
340A.401                      111.22
340A.404, subd. 4(a)          111.22
340A.404, subd. 4(b)          111.22
340A.404, subd. 5             111.22
340A.404(b)                   111.22
340A.408                      111.23
340A.408, subd. 2(b)          111.22
340A.408, subd. 3             111.22
340A.408, subd. 5             111.23
340A.409                      111.25
340A.413, subd. 3             111.20
340A.414                      111.09
340A.414, subd. 6             111.22
340A.504                      111.07
340A.504, subd. 3             111.22
340A.504, subd. 3(c)          111.22
340A.509                      111.02
340A.707                      111.06
340A.801                      111.25
342.01, subd. 50              162.061
342.13(c)                     162.109
342.22                        162.109
347.50 to 347.565             90.10
347.51                        90.10
347.515                       90.10,
                              90.11
347.52                        90.10
347.52(a) and (c)             90.10
347.54                        90.11
                              114.19;
Ch. 349                       114.41;
                              114.52
349.19                        114.17
364.06                        30.01;
                              30.02
364.09                        30.01;
                              30.02
366.011                       31.076
366.012                       31.076
Ch. 412                       160.01
415.01                        31.076
Ch. 429                       91.24
429.021                       51.01
429.101                       51.04;
                              157.08
435.193                       32.25
437.02                        116.03
                              162.002;
Ch. 462                       162.013;
                              162.026;
                              162.072
462.351 through 462.365       160.01
462.354                       162.026;
                              162.027
                              158.001;
462.357                       158.005;
                              162.061;
                              162.109
462.357, subd. 1e             162.122
                              161.03;
462.358                       161.21;
                              161.23
462.358, subd. 2b             161.43
462.361                       161.99;
                              162.031
469.190                       32.02;
                              32.13
471.62                        10.19;
                              160.01
471.193                       159.20
471.193, subd. 6              159.03
471.195                       34.01
                              161.03;
Ch. 505                       161.21;
                              161.23;
                              161.41
505.02                        162.072
515B.1-103, subd. 11          162.013
Ch. 609                       130.02
609.02, subd. 3               134.99
609.205(4)                    90.10
609.226, subd. 1              90.10
609.342                       134.02
609.343                       134.02
609.344                       134.02
609.345                       134.02
609.352                       134.02
617.242                       162.061
626.862                       10.20
631.48                        10.99
Ch. 645                       10.05
645.44                        10.05
645.45                        10.05
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2019 Code
Prior Code      2019 Code
1A.01           30.15
1A.02           30.16
1A.03           30.17
1B.03           30.30
1B.05           30.31
1C.01           94.01
1C.03           94.02
1C.05           94.03
1C.07           94.04
1C.09           94.99
1D.01           32.25
1D.03           32.26
1D.05           32.27
1D.07           32.28
1D.09           32.29
1D.11           32.30
4A.01           91.02
4A.03           91.02
4A.05           91.02
6A.01           31.001
6A.03           31.002
6A.05           31.003
6A.07           31.004
6A.09           31.005
6A.11           31.006
7A.01           31.065
7A.03           31.066
7A.05           31.067
7A.07           31.068
7A.09           31.069
7A.11           31.070
7A.13           31.071
7A.15           31.071
7A.17           31.072
7A.19           31.073
7A.21           31.074
7A.23           31.075
7B.01           31.020
7B.03           31.021
7B.05           31.022
7B.07           31.023
7B.09           31.024
7B.11           31.025
7C.01           31.040
7C.03           31.041
7C.05           31.042
7C.07           31.043
7C.09           31.044
7C.11           31.045
7C.13           31.046
7C.15           31.047
7C.17           31.048
7C.19           31.049
7C.21           31.050
7C.23           31.051
7C.25           31.052
100.05          10.19
100.07          10.19
100.09          10.19
105.01          10.05
105.03          10.05
105.05          10.05
105.09          10.05
120.01          34.01
120.03          34.02
120.05          34.03
120.07          34.04
120.09          34.05
200.01          150.01
200.02          150.02
200.03          150.03
200.04          150.99
205.01          156.15
205.03          156.16
205.05          156.17;
                156.99
210.01          152.01
210.03          152.02
210.05          152.03
210.07          152.04
220.01          150.15
220.02          150.16
220.03          150.17
220.04          150.18
220.05          150.19
220.06          150.20
220.07          150.21
220.08          150.99
300.01          161.01
300.02          161.02;
                161.99
300.03          161.03
300.04          161.04
300.05          161.05
300.06          161.06
300.07          161.07
300.08          161.20
300.09          161.21
300.10          161.22
300.11          161.23
300.12          161.24
300.13          161.35
300.14          161.36
300.15          161.37
300.16          161.38
300.17          161.39
300.18          161.40
300.19          161.41
300.20          161.42
300.21          161.43
300.22          161.55
300.23          161.56
300.24          161.57
305.01          162.001—
                162.003
305.02          162.004—
                162.012
305.03          162.999
305.04          162.025—
                162.032
305.05          162.045—
                162.048
305.06          162.060—
                162.073
305.07          162.085—
                162.108
305.08          162.120—
                162.126
305.09          162.013
310.01          153.01
310.02          153.03
310.03          153.04—
                153.07
310.04          153.99
310.05          153.20
310.06          153.21
310.07          153.22
310.08          153.23
310.09          153.24
310.10          153.25
310.11          153.26
310.12          153.27
310.13          153.28
310.14          153.29
310.15          153.40—
                153.49
310.16          153.02
315.01          159.01
315.03          159.02
                159.20—
315.05          159.22;
                159.24;
                159.25
315.07          159.03
315.09          159.04
315.11          159.05
315.13          159.99
315.15          159.99
315.17          159.06
315.19          159.07
335.01          154.01
335.02          154.02
335.03          154.15—
                154.18
335.04          154.03
335.05          154.99
335.06          154.04
345.01          158.001
345.02          158.002
345.03          158.003
345.04          158.004
345.05          158.005
345.06          158.020—
                158.043
                158.055—
345.07          158.064;
                158.076—
                158.080
345.08          158.075
345.09          158.006
345.010         158.007
345.011         158.007
345.012         158.999
400.01          91.03
400.03          91.03
400.05          91.03
400.07          91.03
400.09          91.03
400.11          91.03
400.13          91.03
405.01          50.01
405.03          50.02
405.05          50.03
405.07          50.04
405.09          50.05
405.11          50.06
405.13          50.07
405.15          50.08
405.17          50.08
405.19          50.09
410.01          50.20
410.03          50.21
410.05          50.22
410.07          50.23;
                50.99
410.09          50.24
415.01          151.02
415.03          151.03
415.05          151.04
415.07          151.05
415.09          151.06
415.11          151.07
415.13          151.08
415.15          151.09
415.17          151.10
415.19          151.01
420.01          91.35
420.03          91.36
420.05          91.37
420.07          91.38
420.09          91.99
Ch. 500, App. A Ch. 52, App. A
500.01          52.15
500.02          52.16
500.03          52.17
500.04          52.18
500.05          52.19
500.06          52.19
500.07          52.20
500.08          52.21
500.09          52.22
500.010         52.23
500.011         52.24
500.012         52.25
500.013         52.26
500.014         52.26
500.015         52.27
500.016         52.28
500.017         52.29
500.018         52.30
Ch. 505, App. A Ch. 53, App. B
Ch. 505, App. B Ch. 53, App. B
505.01          53.01
505.02          53.02
505.03          53.03
505.05          53.04;
                53.99
505.09          53.05
505.11          53.06
505.13          53.07
505.15          53.08
505.16          53.09
505.18          53.10
505.19          53.11
505.20          53.12
505.21          53.99
Ch. 510         52.01;
                52.99
600.01          156.30—
                156.37
602.01          112.01
602.03          112.02
602.05          112.03
602.07          112.04
602.09          112.05
602.11          112.06
602.13          112.07
602.15          112.08
602.17          112.09
602.19          112.10
605.01          156.01
610.01          156.02
610.03          156.02
615.01          156.03
620.01          156.04
650.01          51.01
650.05          51.02
650.10          51.03
650.15          51.04
700.01          131.01
700.03          131.02
700.05          131.03
705.01          90.01
705.02          90.02
705.03          90.03
705.04          90.04;
                90.99
705.05          90.30—
                90.33
705.06          90.05
705.07          90.06;
                90.99
705.08          90.07
705.09          90.08
705.10          90.09
705.11          90.10
705.12          90.12
705.13          90.13
705.14          90.14
705.15          90.15
705.16          90.99
710.01          90.16
710.03          90.99
715.01          90.17
715.05          90.17
720.01          92.01;
                92.99
720.03          92.02
720.05          92.03
720.07          92.04
720.09          92.05
720.11          92.06
720.13          92.07
720.15          92.08
720.17          92.09
720.19          92.10
725.01          155.01
725.03          155.02
725.05          155.03
725.07          155.04
725.09          155.05
725.11          155.06
725.13          155.07
725.15          155.08
725.17          155.09
725.19          155.10
725.21          155.99
730.01          93.01
745.01          31.076
745.02          31.076
745.03          31.076
745.04          31.076
745.05          31.076
745.06          31.076
750.01          134.01
750.02          134.02
750.03          134.03;
                134.99
750.04          134.04
800.01          110.01
800.03          110.02
805.01          110.15
805.03          110.16
805.05          110.17
805.07          110.18
805.09          110.19
805.11          110.20
805.13          110.20
805.15          110.21
805.17          110.22
805.19          110.23
805.21          110.24
805.23          110.25
810.01          110.26
810.03          110.27
815.01          32.45
815.03          32.46
815.05          32.47
815.07          32.48
815.09          32.49
819.01          32.01
819.02          32.02
819.03          32.03
819.04          32.04
819.05          32.05
819.06          32.06
819.07          32.07
819.08          32.08
819.09          32.09
819.10          32.10
819.11          32.11
819.12          32.12
819.13          32.99
819.14          32.13
819.15          32.14
900.01          113.01
900.02          113.02
900.03          113.03
900.04          113.04
900.05          113.05
900.06          113.06
900.07          113.07
900.08          113.08
900.09          113.09
900.10          113.10
900.11          113.06
900.12          113.11
900.14          113.99
900.15          113.99
910.01          114.01
910.03          114.01
910.05          114.01
910.07          114.01
910.09          114.01
910.11          114.01
910.13          114.01
915.01          114.02
915.03          114.02
920.01          114.03
920.03          114.03
920.05          114.03
920.07          114.03
925.01          115.01
925.03          115.02
925.05          115.03
925.07          115.04
925.09          115.05
925.11          115.06
925.13          115.07
925.15          115.08
930.01          114.15
930.03          114.16
930.05          114.17
930.07          114.18
930.09          114.19
930.11          114.20
930.13          114.21
930.15          114.22
930.17          114.23
930.19          114.24
930.21          114.25
930.23          114.26
930.25          114.27
930.27          114.28
930.29          114.99
935.01          114.40
935.03          114.41
935.05          114.42
935.07          114.43
935.09          114.44
935.11          114.45
935.13          114.46
935.15          114.47
935.17          114.48
935.19          114.49
935.21          114.50
935.23          114.51
935.25          114.99
940.01          114.52
940.02          114.52
940.03          114.52
940.04          114.52
Ch. 1010        111.01
1010.01         111.02
1010.02         111.03
1010.03         111.04;
                111.99
1010.04         111.05
1010.05         111.06
1010.06         111.20
1010.07         111.21
1010.08         111.22
1010.09         111.23
1010.10         111.24
1010.11         111.25
1010.12         111.26
1010.13         111.27
1010.14         111.28
1010.15         111.29
1010.16         111.30
1010.17         111.31
1010.18         111.32
1010.19         111.07
1010.20         111.08
1010.21         111.09
1010.22         111.33
1100.01         70.01
1100.03         70.01
1105.01         70.20—
                70.24
1105.03         70.02
1105.05         70.03
1105.07         70.04
1105.09         70.05
1105.11         70.06
1105.13         71.16
1105.14         71.02
1110.01         71.17
1110.03         71.18
                71.18—
1110.05         71.25;
                Ch. 73, Schd. I
1110.07         71.26;
                71.99
1110.09         71.27
1110.11         71.15
1110.13         71.99
1115.01         70.08
1120.01         70.07
1130.01         72.20
1130.03         72.21
1130.05         72.22
1130.07         72.23
1130.09         72.24
1130.11         72.25
1130.13         72.26
1130.15         72.27
1130.17         72.28
1130.19         72.29
1130.21         72.30
1132.1          72.45
1132.2          72.46
1132.3          72.47
1132.4          72.48
1132.5          72.49
1132.6          72.99
1135.01         93.01
1135.03         93.16
1135.05         93.17
1135.07         93.18
1135.09         93.99
1135.11         93.19
1140.01         71.01
1140.03         71.01
1140.05         71.99
1150.10         72.01
1150.20         72.02
1150.30         72.03
1150.40         72.04
1150.50         72.05
1150.60         72.06
1150.70         72.99
1200.01         130.01
1200.03         130.02
1200.05         130.03
1202.01         10.98
1202.02         10.98
1202.03         10.98
1202.04         10.98
1202.05         10.98
1202.06         10.98
1202.07         10.98
1205.01         130.15
1205.03         130.16
1205.05         130.17
1205.07         130.18
1205.09         130.19
1205.11         130.20
1206.01         131.15
1206.03         131.16
1206.05         131.17
1206.07         131.18
1206.09         131.99
1210.01         91.01
1210.03         91.01
1210.05         91.99
1215.01         95.01
1215.03         95.02
1220.01         157.01
1220.02         157.02
1220.03         157.03
1220.04         157.04
1220.05         157.05
1220.06         157.06
1220.07         157.07
1220.08         157.08
1230.01         133.01
1230.03         133.02
1230.05         133.03;
                133.99
1230.07         133.04
1300.01         30.01
1300.02         30.01
1301.01         30.02
0325(1.1)       160.01
0325(1.2)       160.02
0325(1.3)       160.03
0325(2.1)       160.04
0325(2.2)       160.05
0325(2.3)       160.06
0325(2.4)       160.07
0325(2.5)       160.08
0325(2.6)       160.09
0325(2.7)       160.10
0325(2.8)       160.11
0325(3.0)       160.25
0325(4.0)       160.26
0325(5.0)       160.27
0325(6.0)       160.28
0325(7.0)       160.40
0325(8.0)       160.41
0325(9.0)       160.42
0325(10.1)      160.55
0325(10.2)      160.56
0325(10.3)      160.57
0325(10.4)      160.58
0325(11.0)      160.12
0325(12.0)      160.99
0325(13.0)      160.13
                
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      3-8-2000    31.020
–      2- -2002    32.01—
                     32.14
                     150.01—
–      8-5-2003    150.03;
                     150.99
–      8-19-2003   32.48;
                     32.49
–      9-2-2003    32.48;
                     32.49
–      9-2-2003    110.26;
                     110.27
                     53.01—
                     53.12;
–      11-3-2004   53.99;
                     Ch. 53, App. A;
                     Ch. 53, App. B
                     159.01—
                     159.07;
                     159.20—
–      4-19-2005   159.22;
                     159.24;
                     159.25;
                     159.99
2006-10  7-5-2006    134.02;
                     134.03
–      12-19-2006  31.001—
                     31.006
                     150.15—
–      4-16-2007   150.21;
                     150.99
–      5-1-2007    71.26;
                     71.99
                     53.01—
                     53.12;
–      5-15-2007   Ch. 53, App. A;
                     Ch. 53, App. B;
                     53.99
                     162.001—
                     162.013;
                     162.025—
                     162.032;
                     162.045—
                     162.048;
–      12-18-2007  162.060—
                     162.073;
                     162.085—
                     162.108;
                     162.120—
                     162.126;
                     162.999
                     154.01—
                     154.04;
–      2-19-2008   154.15—
                     154.18;
                     154.99
                     51.01—
–      9-7-2010    51.04;
                     52.15—
                     52.30
                     90.01;
                     90.02;
                     90.04;
                     90.06;
–      11-9-2010   90.07;
                     90.09—
                     90.15;
                     90.30—
                     90.33;
                     90.99
–      3-1-2011    31.020
–      3-1-2011    110.26;
                     110.27
                     154.01—
                     154.04;
–      3-1-2011    154.15—
                     154.18;
                     154.99
–      3-1-2011    157.01—
                     157.08
                     51.01—
–      6-5-2012    51.04;
                     52.15—
                     52.30
1300     8-7-2012    30.01;
                     30.02
                     53.01—
                     53.12;
–      9-4-2012    53.99;
                     Ch. 53, App. A;
                     Ch. 53, App. B
                     72.45—
–      11-14-2012  72.49;
                     72.99
                     53.01—
                     53.12;
–      1-7-2014    53.99;
                     Ch. 53, App. A;
                     Ch. 53, App. B
–      2-4-2014    156.04
                     72.45—
–      5-6-2014    72.49;
                     72.99
                     53.01—
                     53.12;
–      8-5-2014    53.99;
                     Ch. 53, App. A;
                     Ch. 53, App. B
                     52.15—
                     52.30;
                     Ch. 52, App. A;
–      3-3-2015    53.01—
                     53.12;
                     53.99;
                     Ch. 53, App. A;
                     Ch. 53, App. B
                     90.01;
                     90.02;
                     90.04;
                     90.06;
–      11-3-2015   90.07;
                     90.09—
                     90.15;
                     90.30—
                     90.33;
                     90.99
                     52.15—
–      5-7-2017    52.30;
                     Ch. 52, App. A
                     72.01—
                     72.06;
                     72.20—
–      11-7-2017   72.30;
                     72.45—
                     72.49;
                     72.99
–      3-6-2018    Ch. 52, App. A
–      7-2-2018    31.020—
                     31.025
                     162.001—
                     162.013;
                     162.025—
                     162.032;
                     162.045—
                     162.048;
–      7-2-2018    162.060—
                     162.073;
                     162.085—
                     162.108;
                     162.120—
                     162.126;
                     162.999
–      5-7-2019    Ch. 52, App. A
–      11-5-2019   Adopting Ordinance
–      - -         162.060
–      - -         162.106
                     117.01—
05-2022  12-6-2022   117.03,
                     162.013,
                     162.060
01-2023  1-3-2023    52.02,
                     52.99
                     31.040—
                     31.043,
–      - -         31.047,
                     31.051,
                     31.053,
                     31.054
                     153.29,
                     161.43,
                     162.013,
                     162.014,
–      4-2-2024    162.060,
                     162.061,
                     162.071,
                     162.106,
                     162.108
–      - -         71.25
                     162.060;
–      - -         162.061;
                     162.109
                     163.01 -
–      - -         163.06;
                     163.99
–      8-6-2024    162.060;
                     162.061
–      2-4-2025    31.020
                     31.054;
–      4-1-2025    159.20;
                     159.21;
                     162.026
                     91.15—
–      8-5-2025    91.24;
                     91.99
                     162.013;
–      8-5-2025    162.060;
                     162.061;
                     162.110
                    
 
 
