WASECA COUNTY, MINNESOTA
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
2025 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 162, passed 5-5-2025
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT CODE
      Article
         
1.   INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
         
2.   NONCONFORMITIES AND LOTS OF RECORD
         
3.   DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESSES AND REQUIREMENTS
         
4.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
         
5.   GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
         
6.   ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
         
7.   ADMINISTRATION, FEES, VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
         
8.   DEFINITIONS
ARTICLE 1: INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS
Section
   
1.01   Title
   
1.02   Purpose
   
1.03   Statutory authorization
   
1.04   Jurisdiction/affected area
   
1.05   Compliance required
   
1.06   Rules of construction and interpretation
   
1.07   Effect on Pending Applications
   
1.08   Severability
   
1.09   Relationship to other city, county, state and federal regulations
   
1.10   Prior ordinances repealed
   
1.11   Amendments to text
   
1.12   Effective date
§ 1.01 TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known, cited and referred to as the “Waseca County
Unified Development Code”. When referred to in this document, it shall be known
as “this ordinance”.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.02 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this ordinance are to:
   (A)   Implement the 2005 Comprehensive Land Use Plan;
   (B)   Promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare by:
      (1)   Regulating the use of structures and land;
      (2)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business,
industrial, recreational and public areas;
      (3)   Providing for adequate light, air and convenience of access to
property;
      (4)   Limiting congestion in the public rights-of-way;
      (5)   Conserving and managing the use of natural resources; and
      (6)   Providing for the administration and enforcement of this ordinance.
   (C)   Update ordinances. Unify and update all land development ordinances
existing prior to the adoption of this ordinance, including zoning ordinance,
subdivision ordinance, shoreland ordinance, joint airport zoning ordinance,
floodplain management ordinance, sign regulations, feedlot ordinance,
manufactured home ordinance, adult use ordinance, agricultural land
preservation plan, right-to-farm ordinance and accessory dwelling ordinance;
and
   (D)   Provide order and consistency. Establish orderly and consistent
procedures to plan and oversee development.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.03 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This ordinance has been enacted in accordance with authority granted to the
county in M.S. Chapters 394 and 103F, as they may be amended from time to time,
and Minnesota Regulations, Parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.04 JURISDICTION/AFFECTED AREA.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall apply to all land within the
jurisdiction of the county. The provisions of this ordinance shall also apply
to the shorelands of public water bodies as defined on the County Protected
Waters Inventory list.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.05 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   From and after the effective date of this ordinance, no structure shall be
erected, constructed, enlarged, reconstructed or altered and no structure or
land shall be used or occupied for any purpose nor in any manner which is not
in conformity with this ordinance, except as specifically provided herein. Any
structure or use existing upon the effective date of the adoption of this
ordinance and which does not conform to the provisions of this ordinance shall
be considered a nonconforming use subject to the rights and limitations
specified in this ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.06 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION.
   The following rules of construction and interpretation shall apply to this
ordinance.
   (A)   Conflict. To the extent of any conflict between this ordinance and any
other county ordinance, regulation or code provision, the more restrictive
shall be deemed to be controlling.
   (B)   Section and subsection titles. Section and subsection titles appear
throughout this ordinance. These titles are for ease of use only; they shall
not be interpreted as regulatory language.
   (C)   Rules.
      (1)   Word usage. The language in this ordinance shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
         (a)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
         (b)   Words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural
the singular.
         (c)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine and neuter
genders.
         (d)   The word “shall” is mandatory, whereas, the word “may” is
permissive.
         (e)   Any word or term, which appears in this ordinance that, is not
defined herein shall be interpreted and defined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Distances. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be
measured horizontally.
      (3)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses of land or buildings as hereinafter
listed shall be permitted in the districts indicated under the conditions
specified. No building or land shall be devoted to any use other than a use
permitted hereinafter in the zoning district in which such building, structure
or land shall be located, with the following exceptions:
         (a)   Uses lawfully established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance;
         (b)   Conditional uses allowed in accordance with this ordinance; and
         (c)   Essential services erected, constructed, altered or maintained
by public or private utilities or by government departments or commissions, not
subject to local control.
      (4)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses of land or buildings, as
hereinafter listed, may be allowed in the districts indicated subject to the
issuance of conditional use permits in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.07 EFFECT ON PENDING APPLICATIONS.
   Prior ordinances shall control the review of applications for required
permits submitted in full and pending before the enactment of this ordinance as
specified in §
1.10.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.08 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, phrase, sentence or portion of this ordinance is for any
reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of competent jurisdiction,
such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct and independent provision,
and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of
this ordinance. The Board of Commissioners declares that it would have adopted
this ordinance and each section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase or
portion thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections,
subsections, phrases or portions be declared invalid or unconstitutional.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.09 RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER CITY, COUNTY, STATE AND FEDERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Compliance required. In addition to the requirements of this
development ordinance, all uses and development shall comply with all other
applicable city, county, state and federal regulations. If a provision of this
ordinance conflicts with any other provision of this ordinance, the County
Unified Development Code, or with any other provision of law, the more
restrictive provision shall apply, except as otherwise provided. Where the
provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation imposes greater
restrictions than this ordinance, the provisions of such shall be controlling.
The continuation of nonconformities provided for by M.S. §§ 394 and 462, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall not apply to compliance with this
ordinance and M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   References to other regulations. All references within this
development ordinance to other city, county, state and federal regulations are
for informational purposes only and do not constitute a complete list of such
regulations. These references do not imply any responsibility by the city for
enforcement of county, state or federal regulations.
   (C)   Current versions and citations. All references to other city, county,
state and federal regulations within this ordinance are intended to refer to
the most current version and citation for those regulations. If such references
are invalid due to repeal or renumbering, the new regulations intended to
replace those cited, regardless of the citation, shall govern unless otherwise
specified.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 126, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 1.10 PRIOR ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This ordinance repeals and replaces all prior land development ordinances
including; the zoning ordinance, interim development ordinance, subdivision
regulations, tower ordinance, floodplain management ordinance and large
exhibitions ordinance.
   (A)   Any application for a subdivision will be processed under the
requirements of Ord. 75, provided that:
      (1)   A concept plan for the development was submitted prior to passage
of this ordinance;
      (2)   A preliminary plat was filed and approved within six months of
passage of this ordinance; and
      (3)   A final plat was filed and approved within 12 months of passage of
this ordinance.
   (B)   Any application for a variance or conditional use permit will be filed
and processed under the requirements of Ord. 75 if filed prior to passage of
the code and public hearing scheduled within 60 days of passage of this code
and the variance or conditional use permit finalized within 60 days following
the public hearing. When required, a conditional use permit application
required for a subdivision will be due with the preliminary plat application.
   (C)   Any application for a new feedlot or the expansion of an existing
feedlot will be processed under the requirements of Ord. 76 if filed prior to
the passage of this code and completed within the timeframes specified in Ord.
76.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.11 AMENDMENTS TO TEXT.
   The County Board of Commissioners may amend the text of this ordinance by
ordinance on its own action or by petition, after recommendation by the
Planning and Zoning Commission and after public hearing. No amendment to the
floodplain regulations and feedlot regulations in this ordinance, however, may
be adopted without prior approval from the applicable state agency.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 1.12 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall be in full force and take effect from and after the
date established upon adoption by the Board of Commissioners.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
ARTICLE 2: NONCONFORMITIES AND LOTS OF RECORD
Section
   
2.01   Intent
   
2.02   Lots of record
   
2.03   Nonconforming signs
   
2.04   Nonconforming structures
   
2.05   Nonconforming uses
   
2.06   Construction on nonconforming lots of record
   
2.07   Shoreland nonconformities
§ 2.01 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this section to provide for the regulation of
nonconforming buildings and uses and to specify the requirements and
circumstances under which such buildings and uses will be operated and
maintained. Nonconforming buildings and uses lawfully existing upon adoption of
this ordinance shall be permitted to continue until they are removed or
discontinued. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance or
regulation imposes greater restrictions than this ordinance, the provisions of
such shall be controlling. The continuation of nonconformities provided for by
M.S. §§ 394 and 462, as they may be amended from time to time, shall not apply
to compliance with this ordinance and M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 126, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 2.02 LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Adjusting front yard setback of nonconforming lot of record. In such
cases, where buildings exist on lots on either side of a lot of record, with
front yard setbacks that do not conform to this ordinance, the setback for the
lot of record shall be determined to be equal to a straight line drawn halfway
between and parallel to the front yard setback lines of the two adjacent
buildings. In such case, where there is a nonconforming setback on a building
adjacent to one side of a lot of record and the lot on the other side is
vacant, the setback for the lot of record shall be determined to be equal to
the setback of the nonconforming building plus one-half the difference between
the setback of the nonconforming building and the setback required by this
ordinance.
   (B)   Structure. Additions, in such cases, where proposed building additions
do not encroach further on the yard setbacks than that existing, such additions
will be permitted provided the use is permitted within the zoning district in
which the property is located.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 2.03 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Nonconforming signs discontinued. Signs lawfully existing on the
effective date of this ordinance which do not conform to the regulations set
forth in this ordinance shall become a nonconforming use and shall be
discontinued within a period of three years of the effective date of this
ordinance. Uses of signs, which become nonconforming due to a subsequent change
in this ordinance, shall also be discontinued within a period of three years of
the effective date of the change.
   (B)   Nonconforming business signs allowed to continue. Business signs on
the premises of a nonconforming building or use may be continued, but such
signs shall not be increased in number, area, height or illumination.
   (C)   No new nonconforming signs. No sign erected before the passage of this
ordinance shall be rebuilt, altered or moved to a new location on the affected
property without being brought into compliance with the requirements of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 2.04 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Discontinuance.
      (1)   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or premises
is discontinued or its normal operation is stopped for a period of one year,
the use of same shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
      (2)   In the event that the use of a nonconforming advertising or
business sign is discontinued or the business being advertised is discontinued
for a period of six months, the sign shall be removed by the owner or lessor at
the request of the County Board.
   (B)   Alteration. The lawful use of a building existing at the time of the
adoption of this ordinance may be continued, although such use does not conform
to the provisions thereof. If a structure is altered to become a conforming
use, it cannot thereafter be changed to a less restricted use.
   (C)   Residential alterations. Alterations may be made to a residential
building containing nonconforming residential units when they will improve the
livability of such units, provided, however, that they do not increase the
number of dwelling units in the building or the physical dimensions of the
building.
   (D)   Restoration. No building which has been damaged by fire, explosion,
natural disaster, as designated by the County Board, to the extent of more than
50% of its replacement value, as determined by the County Assessor, and no
building permit has been applied for within one year of when the property was
damaged, shall be restored except in conformity with the regulations of this
ordinance. This provision shall not apply to buildings exempted by state law.
   (E)   Design and setback standards. The following design standards shall
apply in addition to the requirements of the underlying districts.
      (1)   Setbacks for new buildings and the like. The minimum setbacks for
new buildings, new parking areas or other new structures constructed for the
first time after August 1, 2009 from the right-of-way of State Highway 14 shall
be 75 feet.
      (2)   Setbacks for pre-existing buildings and the like. Notwithstanding
any language to the contrary in this ordinance, the minimum setbacks for
buildings, parking areas or other structures existing on August 1, 2009 from
the right-of-way of Highway 14 shall be the setback then in existence and all
such buildings and the like or reconstruction or replacement of same shall be
deemed to be conforming under this ordinance as to such required setbacks.
      (3)   Site lighting. All lighting shall be down-lit style to reduce
overhead glare.
   (F)   Normal maintenance. Maintenance of a building or other structure
containing or used by a nonconforming use will be permitted when it includes
necessary, non-structural repairs and incidental alterations, which do not
extend or intensify the nonconforming building or use. Nothing in this
ordinance shall prevent the placing of a structure in safe condition when the
structure is declared unsafe by the County Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Building permits previously issued. Any structure which will, under
this ordinance, become nonconforming but for which a building permit has been
lawfully granted prior to the effective date of this ordinance, may be
completed in accordance with the approved plans, provided construction is
started within 120 days and continues to completion within two years. Such
structure and use shall thereafter be a legal nonconforming structure and use.
   (H)   Construction of a second dwelling. The construction of a second
residence on a site may be allowed in order to allow the owner or owners a
place to reside while a new single-family dwelling is constructed. The original
residence must be removed within 180 days of partial or complete occupancy, as
defined in §
8.03, of the new dwelling. A zoning permit to construct a new residence on the
site where there is an existing residence will not be issued until the property
owners execute a covenant agreement approved by the Waseca County Attorney to
remove the existing dwelling upon completion of the new residence.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 148, passed - -2021)
§ 2.05 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Changes and substitutions: once a nonconforming use has been changed
to a conforming use or a substandard structure has been altered so as to comply
with the lot area, established setback lines along arterial streets, highways
and property lines, and the yard, height, parking, loading, unloading, access
and any other applicable provisions of this ordinance, it shall not revert back
to a nonconforming use or a substandard structure.
   (B)   Once the Board of Adjustment has permitted the substitution of a
nonconforming use for the existing nonconforming use, the prior existing use
shall lose its status as a legal nonconforming use and the substituted use
shall become subject to all the conditions required by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 2.06 CONSTRUCTION ON NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   Building permitted with conditions. Lots of record in the office of
the County Recorder prior to May 17, 1983 that do not meet the requirements of
this ordinance may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district; the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard; was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time; and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this ordinance are met.
   (B)   When variance required. A variance from setback requirements must be
obtained before any use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued
for a lot of record where lot size does not allow for compliance with
applicable setback distances, in evaluating the variance, the Board of
Adjustment shall consider sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or
constraints of the lot and shall deny the variance if adequate facilities
cannot be provided.
   (C)   Nonconforming lots of record under single ownership. If, in a group of
two or more contiguous lots under the same ownership, any individual lot does
not meet the requirements of this ordinance the lot must not be considered as a
separate parcel of land for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must
be combined with the one or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more
parcels of land, each meeting the requirements of this ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 2.07 SHORELAND NONCONFORMITIES.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this ordinance may
continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes and
other regulations of this county for the subjects of alterations and additions,
repair after damage, discontinuance of use and intensification of use; except
that the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas.
   (A)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures.
      (1)   All additions or expansion to the outside dimensions of an existing
nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height and other requirements of
§
6.22. Any deviation from these requirements must be authorized by the variance
process described in §
3.08.
      (2)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
         (a)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
         (b)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
         (c)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does
not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
         (d)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
   (B)   Nonconforming subsurface sewage treatment systems.
      (1)   A subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS) must have been issued a
current certificate of compliance before an application for a zoning permit can
be approved.
         (a)   For variances and conditional use permits, a condition shall be
added to the recorded document requiring upgrading and issuance of a
certificate of compliance before the variance or conditional use of the
property is commenced. An exception to this requirement is made when the
variance request is for placement of an SSTS.
         (b)   For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system
shall not be considered nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage
treatment system’s improper setback from the ordinary high water level.
         (c)   An escrow account for the exclusive purpose of SSTS
installation, repair or improvement may be utilized to expedite the following
permits or uses without a current certificate of compliance for a brief period
of time. The established escrow account shall be held in trust by a FDIC
insured lending institution. The escrow account shall total no less than one
and one-half multiplied by the total amount of a written estimate from a
licensed contractor for a design which has been approved by the Public Health
Services Department or one and one-half multiplied by the annual average cost
of a standard mound system as determined by the Public Health Services
Department.
            1.   Zoning permit. The non-compliant SSTS shall be upgraded and
issued a current certificate of compliance within 120 days of issuance of a
zoning permit, except as provided under extension/exceptions below.
            2.   Variance and/or conditional use permit. The non-compliant SSTS
shall be upgraded and issued a current certificate of compliance within 120
days of issuance of a zoning permit, which ever shall occur first, except as
provided for under extension/exceptions below.
            3.   Extension/exception. If a request for a permit, variance or
conditional use permit is received between November 1 and April 30, the county
may issue a permit, conditional use permit or variance immediately with the
requirement that a compliance inspection be completed by the following June 1,
and a certificate of compliance be submitted by the property owner by the
following September 30. All other requests require a certificate of compliance
prior to the issuance of a permit.
      (2)    The county will require upgrading or replacement of any
nonconforming system identified by this program within a reasonable period,
which will not exceed 120 days. Sewage systems installed according to all
applicable local shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. Chapter
103F, as it may be amended from time to time, in effect at the time of
installation may be considered as conforming unless they are determined to be
failing, except that systems using cesspools, leaching pits, seepage pits or
other deep disposal methods or systems with less than three feet of soil
treatment area separation above groundwater than required by the State
Pollution Control Agency’s rules for design of on-site subsurface sewage
treatments systems shall be considered nonconforming and an imminent threat to
public health or safety.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
ARTICLE 3: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESSES AND REQUIREMENTS
Section
   
3.01   Introductory provisions
   
3.02   Zoning permits
   
3.03   Amendments/rezoning
   
3.04   Permit application processing timeline protocol
   
3.05   Site plans
   
3.06   Subdivision regulations
   
3.07   Conditional use permits
   
3.08   Variances and appeals
   
3.09   Special events permit
§ 3.01 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this article is to establish application
requirements, review processes and standards for land use approvals and
development permits in the county.
   (B)   Additional studies. In considering a development proposal, the Board
may request a report by the Zoning Administrator or other county staff or
consultant; additional information from the applicant; input from any affected
public service facility provider or special service district; and input from
contiguous, affected or potentially affected jurisdictions. If so required, the
applicant shall bear the full cost of meeting this requirement.
   (C)   Notification requirements. 
      (1)   Whenever in this article notification of a public meeting or public
hearing by the Planning and Zoning Commission, the Board of Adjustment or the
Board is required, the following procedures shall be followed.
         (a)   Notification to applicant. The Zoning Administrator shall notify
the applicant by mail of the time, place and date of the public meeting and/or
public hearing. The information for the notice shall be obtained from county
taxpayer information from county records.
         (b)   Notice of meeting of public body. Notice of the time and place
of the meeting of the public body holding the public hearing or public meeting
shall be given not less than four nor more than 20 days before the time of the
hearing in one publication in the official newspaper of the county. Notice
shall also be mailed to the applicant.
         (c)   Notification to surrounding property owners. The Zoning
Administrator shall comply with the following notification requirements:
            1.   In the case of variances, to owners of record within 500 feet
of the affected property;
            2.   In the case of conditional uses and interim uses, to owners of
record within one-quarter mile of the affected property or to the ten
properties nearest to the affected property, whichever would provide notice to
the greatest number of owners;
            3.   In the case of all other official controls, including but not
limited to rezoning and subdivision regulation, to owners of record within one-
half mile of the affected property;
            4.   In all cases, notices sent in incorporated areas shall be sent
to all property owners of record within 500 feet of the affected property; and
            5.   Written notice shall also be given to the affected board of
town supervisors, and the municipal council of any municipality within two
miles of the affected property.
      (2)   The notice shall be by mail indicating the time, place and date of
the Technical Review Committee meeting, public meeting and/or public hearing.
Failure to notify shall not be deemed sufficient cause to invalidate
proceedings regarding the land use approval or development permit under
consideration.
   (D)   No new petition filed. Whenever any application for a rezoning/map
amendment, conditional use permit or variance shall have been denied, then no
new respective application for a rezoning/map amendment, conditional use permit
or variance covering the same property and/or additional property shall be
filed with or considered by the county until one year shall have elapsed from
the date of the denial.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 3.02 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   Zoning permit required.
      (1)   No person shall erect, repair, structurally alter or move any
structure or building or part thereof without first securing a zoning permit,
except for activities exempted by subsection (B) below, which require a notice
to proceed.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued where a proposed setback does not comply
with future road construction plans as approved by the County Board, in which
case a greater setback will be required in accordance with future highway
plans. This information shall be supplied by the County Engineer.
      (3)   All animal feedlots must further comply with the regulations set
forth by the State Pollution Control Agency.
      (4)   All on-site sewage treatment systems must further conform to
Pollution Control Agency rules in Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7080.
      (5)   All manufactured home parks and recreational camping areas must
further comply with the standards established by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 4630.
      (6)   All international, federal, state, county and other official
monuments, bench-marks, triangulation points and stations shall be preserved in
their precise locations; and it shall be the responsibility of the applicant to
ensure that these markers are maintained in good condition during and following
construction and development. All section, half sections and one-sixteenth
section corners shall be duly described and tied.
      (7)   Any permit is void if building construction is not completed within
one year from the date the permit was approved, unless otherwise extended by
the County Board.
      (8)   Any zoning permit issued under the prior existing zoning ordinance
shall remain in effect for one year from the date of its issuance and
construction shall comply with all requirements in effect under the prior
zoning ordinance. Construction must begin within one year of issuance of the
zoning permit and be completed within one year after construction is begun.
   (B)   Notice to proceed required.
      (1)   Applicability. A notice to proceed is required for non-structural
repairs that do not require a zoning permit. Circumstances in which a notice to
proceed is required include, but are not limited to roof re-shingling, re-
roofing, window replacement, same size, window replacement - enlargement or
made smaller, siding, foundation repair/replacement (no structural raising
involved), construction of an accessory structure 100 square feet or less and
less than 14 feet in height. All repairs must meet all ordinance requirements.
      (2)   Notice to Planning Department. A phone call must be placed to
planning and zoning for record purposes. The applicant shall furnish: first
name; last name; address; city; state; zip; section; township; phone number;
project description, including size and type of building and proposed date of
start and completion. A notice to proceed letter will be generated from the
planning and zoning office to the property owner. Messages can be left 24 hours
per day, seven days a week.
      (3)   Fee. No cost to applicant for proper notification.
      (4)   Penalty. Penalty for failure to notify shall be as established by
the County Board by resolution.
   (C)   Application for zoning permit.
      (1)   Application for a zoning permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator on forms to be furnished by the county and must be signed by the
applicant. Each application for a permit to construct or alter a building shall
be accompanied by a plan, showing the survey dimensions of the lot to be built
upon and the size and location of the building and accessory buildings to be
erected, or such information as required by the Zoning Administrator.
Applications shall contain such other information as may be deemed necessary
for the proper enforcement of this ordinance or any other. The Zoning
Administrator shall issue the zoning permit only after determining that the
buildings, and site plans (if necessary), together with the application, comply
with the terms of this ordinance, except as provided in §
2.01, Intent and that the applicant has no zoning violations outstanding or
delinquent property taxes.
      (2)   Before any dwelling or other structure is moved onto a lot, the
Planning Commission, by conditional use permit process, shall recommend to the
County Board whether the structure will be compatible with other development in
the area. The applicant shall submit photographs taken from two or more angles
of the structure to be moved and photographs of the lot on which the structure
is to be located together with photographs of adjacent lots and structures.
      (3)   A dwelling or other structure found not to be compatible with other
development in the area by the County Board shall not be issued a zoning
permit.
      (4)   If an applicant demonstrates that an incompatible dwelling or other
structure can be made compatible and demonstrates the ability and intent to
improve the dwelling or other structure within a period of not more than three
years, unless the County Board later extends the time for completing
improvements.
      (5)   A dwelling or other structure will be considered incompatible if it
significantly lowers the property values or significantly detracts from the
aesthetic quality of other development in the area.
      (6)   These requirements shall not apply to a single-family dwelling,
permitted accessory uses or to agricultural buildings and structures when being
located upon a farm as defined in Article 8; or to temporary structures being
located on a lot for 18 months or less.
      (7)   An administrative review shall be issued in lieu of a conditional
use permit for any house or structure being moved onto a lot provided all of
the following criteria can be answered “yes” by the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   The house or structure, in its existing condition, is compatible
with other development in the area; COMPATIBLE means:
            1.   Photographs are submitted by the applicant taken from two or
more angles of the structure to be moved and photographs of the lot on which
the structure is to be located together with photographs of adjacent lots and
structures. The photographs shall be kept on file, and become property of the
Office of Planning and Zoning;
            2.   The house or structure as compared against the two closest
adjoining structures is of the same or similar character as determined from
records in the office of the County Assessor; and
            3.   The house or structure will not lower the adjoining property
value(s) as determined and documented by written statement of the office of the
County Assessor and kept on file in the office of planning and zoning.
         (b)   The aesthetic quality of the surrounding area is maintained.
AESTHETIC QUALITY means that the dwelling or structure, in its existing
condition, being moved onto the lot is of:
            1.   The same or similar building materials; i.e., brick, stick-
built, manufactured home, pole construction and the like;
            2.   The same or similar building architecture, i.e., rambler, log
cabin, French-second empire, Victorian, Spanish and the like;
            3.   The same or similar amount of stories; i.e., one-story, one
and one-half-story, two-story;
            4.   The same or similar exterior material(s); i.e., aluminum
siding, painted exterior and the like;
            5.   The same or similar roofline, i.e., gable, gambrel, hip,
mansard and the like; or
            6.   The same or similar roofing material, i.e., shingles, tile,
metal sheeting and the like.
      (8)   If “no” is answered to any of the above listed criteria by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator, a conditional use permit shall be required.
Approval or denial of the administrative review must be documented by findings
of fact and be kept on file in the Office of Planning and Zoning. The Planning
and Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings
of fact within 14 days of the submittal of the required photographs and written
request for an administrative review to move a dwelling or structure onto a
lot. Appeal of the administrative review shall be heard by the Board of
Adjustment.
      (9)    The Planning and Zoning Administrator may report all findings of
fact of the administrative review to the Planning Commission at its next
regularly scheduled meeting.
   (D)   Fees. Zoning permit fees and other fees as may be established by
resolution of the Board of County Commissioners shall be collected by the
Zoning Administrator for deposit with the county and credited to the General
Revenue Fund. Zoning permits are not valid until the required fee is paid.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 147, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
§ 3.03 AMENDMENTS/REZONING.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   The proceedings for amendment of this ordinance shall be initiated
by:
         (a)   A petition from the owner or owners of the property specified on
the application;
         (b)   A recommendation of the County Planning Commission; or
         (c)   By action of the Board of County Commissioners.
      (2)   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on the prescribed form.
      (3)   All applications to change the wording of this ordinance shall
include the following information:
         (a)   The stated reason for the requested change;
         (b)   A statement on the compatibility of the requested change with
the County Comprehensive Plan;
         (c)   The portion of the existing ordinance which is to be amended;
         (d)   The proposed amended text and statements, which outline any
other effects that the amendment may have on other areas of this ordinance; and
         (e)   Any additional information requested by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   All applications to change the boundaries of any zoning district
shall include the following information:
         (a)   The names, addresses and signatures of the petitioner or
petitioners;
         (b)   The names and addresses of all property owners within the area
to be rezoned, and a description of the property owned by each, and signatures
from property owners in favor of the petition to rezone;
         (c)   A legal description of the property or properties to be rezoned
and a specific description of the area to be rezoned;
         (d)   The present and proposed district classifications of the area;
         (e)   The current and proposed use of the land;
         (f)   A copy of any deed restrictions or covenants pertaining to the
property or properties to be rezoned;
         (g)   A statement explaining the reason for the requested change in
zoning;
         (h)   A statement on the compatibility of the requested change with
the county’s Comprehensive Plan or any other officially approved plan;
         (i)   A map, plot plan or survey plot of the property or properties to
be rezoned which illustrates the location, dimensions, zoning, existing uses
and buildings located on adjacent properties within 500 feet in incorporated
areas, and one-half mile in unincorporated areas; and
         (j)   Any additional information requested by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Public hearing.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing on
each petition for amendment of this ordinance or rezoning prior to any final
decision by the County Board. Such public hearings may be continued from time
to time and additional hearings may be held.
      (2)   Upon receipt in proper form of the application and other requested
material, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date of the public hearing.
All such hearings shall be held in a location prescribed by the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Notice of the time, place and purpose of any public hearing shall
be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town,
municipality or other area concerned, and in the official newspaper of the
county at least ten days before the hearing.
      (4)   In addition, written notice of public hearings on all amendments to
this ordinance shall be sent to the governing bodies of all towns and all
municipalities located within the county.
      (5)   Written notice of the time, place, and purpose of public hearings
regarding the application of this ordinance to specific properties (rezoning)
shall be sent to the petitioner or petitioners and to the adjacent property
owners at least ten days before the hearing. The written notice shall be sent
to property owners as follows:
         (a)   In incorporated areas, to all property owners of record within
500 feet of the affected property;
         (b)   In unincorporated areas, to owners of record within one-half
mile of the affected property; and
         (c)   Written notice shall also be given to the affected board of town
supervisors, and the municipal council of any municipality within two miles of
the affected property.
      (6)   The current tax records on file in the office of the County
Assessor shall be deemed sufficient for notification purposes. The failure of
any property owner to receive notification, or defects in the notice, shall not
invalidate the proceedings, if a bona fide attempt to comply with this
subsection has been made.
      (7)    Written notice shall be sent to the respective Department of
Natural Resources Area Hydrologist at least ten days prior to any public
hearing regarding amendments, affecting the Shoreland Overlay District.
      (8)   Any interested party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney at the public hearing.
   (C)   Action and authorization.
      (1)   Following the close of the public hearing and the formulation of
the Planning Commission’s recommendations, the Zoning Administrator shall
report the findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission to the
County Board at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting.
      (2)   Unless otherwise extended by written authorization of the
applicant, the County Board shall act on the proposed amendment within 60 days
of the receipt of a completed application for a rezoning or zoning amendment.
      (3)   The County Board shall have the option to hold whatever public
hearings it deems advisable.
      (4)   Unless otherwise extended by written authorization of the
applicant, if no report or recommendation is transmitted by the Planning
Commission to the County Board, within 60 days after the receipt of a completed
application, the County Board may take action without the recommendation.
      (5)   Approval of any amendments to this ordinance shall require a
majority vote of all members of the County Board.
      (6)   A petition for rezoning which has been denied by the County Board
shall not be reconsidered for at least one year.
   (D)   Fees.
      (1)   An application fee for a proposed zoning district boundary change
or an amendment to this ordinance shall be as established by the County Board
by resolution. Such fee shall be payable when the petition is filed.
      (2)   Any outside costs for consulting services to aid the Planning
Commission, or County Board, or both, in making a decision on the petition
shall be paid by the applicant. Such fee shall be determined by the County
Board.
   (E)   Effective date. The amendment shall become effective upon adoption by
the County Board and publication or such date after publication as the County
Board shall designate.
   (F)   Similar use. 
      (1)   A determination of similar use is when the County Board determines
that a proposed use that is not in the zoning ordinance is “similar” to a use
that is in the zoning code. The zoning administrator first issues a statement
of clarification finding that the use is not sufficiently similar to any other
use specifically listed and regulated in the zoning code. Any person proposing
such use may then place a request for the County Board to determine if a use is
or is not similar to other uses permitted in a specific district through the
Planning and Zoning Administrator. The application and the process to determine
if a use is similar to another use will follow the procedures for a zoning
amendment as outlined in this section.
      (2)   The Planning Commission must make the following findings in
determining one use is similar to another:
         (a)   That the use is similar in character to one or more of the
principal uses permitted;
         (b)   That the traffic generated on such use is similar to one or more
of the principal uses permitted;
         (c)   That the use is not first permitted in a less restrictive zoning
district; and
         (d)   That the use is consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may recommend and the County Board may
impose such reasonable conditions and limitations in granting an approval as
are determined to be necessary to fulfill the spirit and purpose of this
ordinance and to protect adjacent properties.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 3.04 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESSING TIMELINE PROTOCOL.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the right of a
landowner, who in good-faith has submitted a completed application to the
county zoning office for a particular land use project within a particular
geographic area. It is also to ensure that applicant the appropriate time to
complete his or her application process without interruption from a competing
land use request in the same local area.
   (B)   Application process and permit requirements. All applications and
permits shall be processed as follows.
      (1)   Upon receipt of a completed application (when one exists) or a
formal written notice of a process to proceed (when an application does not
formally exist) for a process that is required by federal, state or local
statutes, rules or ordinance, the written documents shall be submitted to
county zoning office. The person making application or formal written notice
shall be deemed as Applicant A.
      (2)   Applicant A’s request, as noted above, shall be reviewed for
completeness.
         (a)   If Applicant A’s application is complete it shall be accepted by
the zoning office and shall proceed through the appropriate process as
required. If the application is complete, it shall be deemed accepted.
         (b)   If Applicant A’s application is incomplete, it shall be returned
to the applicant by first class mail and shall include a written statement
informing the applicant of the information that is missing or incomplete. The
application shall be deemed not accepted.
      (3)   During the process of review, an accepted application from
Applicant A may be required to submit additional information to the requesting
government entity in order to complete the process and/or make a decision on
behalf of a request, such as, but not limited to, requests from the Planning
Commission or Board of Commissioners during a conditional use permit,
subdivision and plat, or from the environmental review authority. All
information shall be provided in a timely manner.
      (4)   An applicant must complete the following process in the time
periods listed in Table 3.1 to protect the applicant’s developmental rights.
Table 3.1 Permit Application Processing Timeline Protocol
Table 3.1 Permit Application Processing Timeline Protocol
                                Within 30 days of receipt of a completed
                                feedlot registration an applicant shall
                                establish a feedlot by definition or submit a
Animal feedlot: 10 AU - 49 AU   completed zoning application for a structure.
                                As per zoning ordinance, a structure shall be
                                completed within one year of issuance of the
                                zoning permit.
                                Within 90 days following the site team
                                inspection or conditional use permit decision,
                                the appropriate completed feedlot permit
                                application shall be submitted to the zoning
                                office.
                                Within 30 days of issuance of a feedlot permit
Animal feedlot: 50 AU- 999 AU   by the County Feedlot Officer, a completed
                                application for a zoning permit to construct an
                                animal feedlot structure shall be submitted to
                                the zoning office.
                                As per zoning ordinance; a structure shall be
                                completed within one year of issuance of the
                                zoning permit.
                                A feedlot required to complete an environmental
                                review shall notify the zoning office in
                                writing at the time of submission to the MPCA.
                                Within 30 days of the completion of the
                                environmental review the applicant shall submit
                                an application for site team or conditional use
                                process.
                                Within 90 days following the site team
                                inspection or conditional use permit decision,
Animal feedlot: > 1000 AU       the appropriate completed feedlot permit
                                application shall be submitted to the State
                                Pollution Control Agency.
                                Within 30 days of issuance of a feedlot permit
                                by the State Pollution Control Agency, a
                                completed application for a zoning permit to
                                construct an animal feedlot structure shall be
                                submitted to the zoning office.
                                As per zoning ordinance, a structure shall be
                                completed within one year of issuance of the
                                zoning permit.
Residential subdivision and     Setbacks: Any setback shall be calculated from
plat; as approved by the County the buildable area of a lot until a residential
Board                           structure is physically located upon the lot
                                (s).
                                The pre-application meeting, as required by §
                                3.06(F)(9)(a), shall be held at the next
                                regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Residential subdivision and     Commission. The applicant shall define a
plat; application process       specific area of the potential subdivision.
                                A preliminary plat and completed application
                                shall be received by the zoning office within
                                60 days of the pre-application meeting of the
                                Planning Commission.
                                As per zoning ordinance, the structure shall be
*Residence, permitted use       completed within one year of issuance of the
                                zoning permit.
                                A completed application for a zoning permit
                                shall be submitted within 90 days of County
*Residence, by conditional use  Board approval of the conditional use permit.
permit                          As per zoning ordinance, the structure shall be
                                completed within one year of issuance of the
                                zoning permit.
                                County shall not warranty land for development
                                that has not proceeded through the appropriate
Sale of land                    processes and received proper approvals of the
                                County Board, Zoning Administrator, or Board of
                                Adjustment, as may be required.
(*) Completion of a residential structure shall include all of the following:
(1) Construction of walls and roof; placement of windows and doors.
(2) An approved, constructed and functioning waste disposal system, i.e., SSTS,
public sewer and the like.
(3) Electricity, a heating source and water supply.
(4) The structure in general shall be in habitable form. An unfinished basement
is acceptable. “In general” habitable form includes such things as, internal
walls, flooring, ceiling, cabinetry, plumbing, toilet and bath fixtures.
 
      (5)   Should a landowner not be timely in his or her application process,
Applicant A shall forfeit the exclusive right of zoning review to the
immediately following applicant for a land use request within the same
geographical area.
      (6)   (a)   Should a second applicant, deemed Applicant B, make
application for a land use which is allowed in the same geographical vicinity
the following policy shall apply.
            1.   If Applicant A has followed the processes and procedures as
listed above, Applicant A’s project shall be considered “active and on-going”
and shall be exclusively considered by the county for processing.
            2.    No other application shall be considered within a specified
quarter- quarter section, as established by any county ordinance, of Applicant
A’s proposed project.
            3.   Upon receipt of any additional applications that have followed
the procedures as listed above; any second or additional applicants shall be
notified in writing by the county zoning office of a pending “active and on-
going” application that is being considered.
         (b)   Each application shall be marked with the date and time of
submittal to the zoning office to determine the order of consideration.
Applications or formal written notices, (when an application does not formally
exist) received by mail shall be considered received at 10:30 a.m. upon their
day of receipt.
      (7)   Each additional application or formal written notice (when an
application does not formally exist) to Applicant A’s request shall be denied
by the County Zoning Administrator until such time that:
         (a)   The necessary processes have been completed by Applicant A and
the land use entity exists and, therefore, the second or following request(s)
can not meet the standards of the ordinance and an application would
administratively be denied;
         (b)   Applicant A withdraws and rescinds his or her application in
writing; or
         (c)   Applicant A fails to complete the necessary process to
completion in the above specified time frame.
      (8)   Upon the withdrawal of Applicant A’s request, upon Applicant A’s
failure to act in a timely manner, or upon the denial of Applicant A’s request,
then Applicant B’s request shall move forward and be considered for approval
through the same processes as was afforded Applicant A. Applicant B shall have
14 calendar days after written notice by the county zoning office to notify the
county zoning office if it would like his or her application or formal process
placed into “active and ongoing” status.
      (9)   Should Applicant B respond within 14 calendar days that he or she
wishes to have his or her completed application considered, he or she shall be
subject to the same processes of Applicant A. Additional applicants shall be
treated in the same manner when more than one additional applicant exists,
i.e., when Applicant B moves to active and ongoing status, Applicant C’s
request shall be considered “on-deck”.
      (10)   Should Applicant B decline the opportunity to move forward or not
respond to the written notice of the county zoning office, Applicant C, if
there is one, shall be notified of such opportunity to be moved to “active and
ongoing” status.
      (11)   Any additional applicants shall be subject to the same process as
Applicant B. Each additional applicant shall be considered in the order the
application or formal notice of process is received. Nothing in this ordinance
prevents a previous applicant from reapplying and repeating the process that
may have been previously denied, withdrawn or was previously lost by failure to
respond or provide information.
      (12)   The county zoning office shall be responsible to make the
applicant aware of the timelines the applicant is subject to in writing.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 3.05 SITE PLANS.
   (A)   Site plans required. Site plans are required to assure that the
development meets the stated purposes and standards of the zoning district in
which it is located; to allow the planning staff to review a zoning application
for compliance with this code; to provide for the necessary public facilities
such as roads and utilities; and to protect and preserve topographical features
and adjacent properties through appropriate siting of structures and
landscaping. A site development plan is required with applications for the
following:
      (1)   New uses and significant expansions of existing uses, which
increase the assessed value of the structure more than 50% as determined by the
County Assessor, other than exclusively single family residential uses;
      (2)   Where otherwise specified in Articles 3, 4, 5 and 6 of this
ordinance; and
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may waive some of the requirements for
required herein for zoning permits.
   (B)   Site plan requirements. Whenever this ordinance requires submission of
a site plan the applicant shall submit one paper copy and an electronic version
(AutoCAD) in a form acceptable to the Zoning Administrator of a site plan
prepared by an engineer, landscape architect, architect or other similar
licensed professional and meeting the following specifications and showing the
data listed.
      (1)   Application information:
         (a)   Names of all property owners;
         (b)   Address of property including street, city and zip code; and
         (c)   Existing and requested zoning classification, use of property,
number of employees if applicable.
      (2)   Specifications.
         (a)   Paper sized 11 inches by 17 inches; additional larger format
copies may be submitted in addition to the 11 inches by 17 inches format.
         (b)   Drawn to scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet, unless
otherwise approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   All existing and proposed site conditions shall be shown,
including:
         (a)   Existing and proposed contour lines at intervals no greater than
five feet, referred to USGS datum;
         (b)   Location and dimensions of lot boundaries;
         (c)   Flood hazard areas as designated on FEMA flood hazard boundary
maps;
         (d)   Watercourses and wetlands;
         (e)   Any unique natural features including wooded areas; and
         (f)   Location and dimensions of all existing structures. The
structure must be labeled (e.g., existing warehouse, dwelling) and use must be
labeled as well (e.g., storage of contractor’s equipment, single-family
residence.) Each structure must delineate its square footage and dimensions to
existing and/or proposed lot lines. Structures include:
            1.   Buildings;
            2.    Wells;
            3.    Fences;
            4.    Septic tank and septic field locations;
            5.    Retaining walls;
            6.    Utility poles;
            7.    Walkways;
            8.    Signs;
            9.    Location, dimensions and uses of each existing platted
street, highway, railroad or utility easement;
            10.    Identification of parks and other public open space within
or adjacent to the proposed development;
            11.    Existing parking spaces, number, dimensions and drives;
            12.    AI1 existing storm and sanitary sewer lines, water lines,
gas lines, culverts or other underground installations within the proposed
development or immediately adjacent, with pipe size (if available) and
locations shown;
            13.    Layout, lot numbers and scaled dimensions of each lot in
each block of any proposed subdivision;
            14.    Names, locations and dimensions of all proposed streets,
roadways, alleys and pedestrian ways;
            15.    Other property lines, proposed right-of-way lines, building
setback lines;
            16.    Location, dimensions and uses of any proposed street,
highway, railroad or utility easements;
            17.    Existing and proposed parking spaces with dimensions and
class (including handicapped) with a notation of the number of spaces required
and the number provided. Proposed parking drive areas with proposed direction
of traffic flow;
            18.    Access to all public or private streets and radius of
curvature of ingress and egress drives;
            19.    Circulation patterns of traffic;
            20.    Location, intensity, height, spacing and shielding of all
exterior lighting; and
            21.    Locations of outside refuse collection areas, and the type
of screen to be provided to enclose the container from the public view.
      (4)   The following information shall also be noted on the plan:
         (a)   Date site plan was prepared or date when surveyed;
         (b)   North arrow and scale of drawings;
         (c)   Title block including the name, address, phone number and
profession of the person preparing the site plan or plat, and the architect’s,
engineer’s or surveyor’s professional seal, the date and the date of all
revisions. Title blocks shall meet requirements of state law;
         (d)   Name, address, phone number and signed consent of all property
owners;
         (e)   Ownership, land-use and zoning of all adjoining properties
within 500 feet of the proposed development, and when adjoining properties are
part of a recorded subdivision, the name of that subdivision;
         (f)   Type of water supply and sewage disposal and if storm sewer is
available; and
         (g)   Other information deemed necessary by the Planning Commission or
Board.
   (C)   Review of site plans. Unless specified otherwise in this ordinance for
land division applications, a site plan may be approved by the Zoning
Administrator upon concurrence of all the appropriate county departments or
other appropriate agencies as indicated on a site plan review form.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 3.06 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Introductory provisions.
      (1)   Purposes and intent. This ordinance is enacted for the following
purposes: to safeguard the best interests of the county, the homeowner, the
subdivider, the township and local municipalities within the county; to
encourage well planned subdivisions by the establishment of adequate standards
for design and construction; to secure the rights of the public; to discourage
inferior development which might adversely affect property values; to prevent
piecemeal planning of subdivisions; to improve land records by establishing
standards for surveys and plats; and to establish subdivision development
standards compatible with affected municipalities.
      (2)   Jurisdiction. The regulations herein governing plats and the
subdivision of land shall apply to all areas of the county lying outside the
incorporated limits of municipalities with the exception of the area up to two
miles of a municipality whereby such municipality, by resolution, has extended
the application of such regulations pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subdivision 1a,
as it may be amended from time to time, and with the exception where a town has
adopted subdivision regulations pursuant to M.S. § 368.01, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      (3)   Application of ordinance. Any plat, or survey as applicable,
hereafter made, for each subdivision or each part thereof lying within the
jurisdiction of this ordinance, shall be prepared, presented for approval and
recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations contained herein shall apply to
the subdivisions of a lot, parcel or tract of land for the purpose of immediate
or future transfer of ownership, including the re-subdivision or re-platting of
lots or parcels and common interest community lots. A lot, parcel or tract of
land, for purposes of this section is a designated area of land described and
recorded with the County Recorder as of May 17, 1983.
      (4)   Exemptions. 
         (a)   Subdivision approval shall not be required for those properties
that qualify under one or more of the following exemptions:
            1.   Correction of engineering, drafting or surveying errors;
            2.   Combining of two or more lots into a single lot, provided a
covenant acceptable to the Zoning Administer is recorded with the County
Recorder;
            3.   Subdivision of a parcel of record to increase the size of two
or more adjacent substandard parcels of record or to attach a residence to a
feedlot owned by the same party, provided that a covenant acceptable to the
Zoning Administrator to combine the parcels for purposes of sale and/or
development is recorded with the County Recorder, and that a certificate of
survey, prepared by a licensed surveyor, accompanies the covenant;
            4.   Adjustment of common boundary lines between adjoining property
owners, providing that the adjustment results in no violation of this ordinance
and a certificate of survey, prepared by a licensed surveyor, must be submitted
to the Planning and Zoning Department and to the County Recorder;
            5.   Partition of lands by will or through action of a court of
competent jurisdiction, unless or until development of the land is proposed;
            6.   Where a property has been changed in size or shape by reason
of the taking of a part of such property for public use by reference to a
properly drawn and recorded plat, such as a right-of-way plat; provided, that
the outlines and dimensions of such remainder may be clearly determined by
references to the previously recorded plats; and/or
            7.   Subdivisions and property boundary alterations that are the
direct result of construction and operation activities of utilities exempted by
state statute.
         (b)   All plats lawfully recorded prior to the effective date of this
ordinance shall not be subject to the provisions contained herein.
      (5)   Land suitability requirement. No land shall be subdivided which is
held unsuitable by the county for the proposed use because of any of the
following conditions:
         (a)   Flooding;
         (b)   Inadequate drainage;
         (c)   Soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development;
         (d)   Severe erosion potential;
         (e)   Unfavorable topography;
         (f)   Inadequate water supply or sewage disposal capabilities; and
         (g)   Any other feature likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of the future residents and or development of the proposed subdivision
or of the community.
      (6)   Approvals necessary for acceptance of subdivision plats. Pursuant
to subsection (D) below (plats submission procedure and data), before any plat
shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and approved by the Board of County Commissioners as having
fulfilled the requirements of this ordinance. Where any municipality has
adopted extraterritorial subdivision regulations as provided by the M.S. §
462.358, as it may be amended from time to time, any proposed plat lying within
two miles of the municipality shall conform to the procedures as prescribed by
the municipality.
      (7)   Compliance. No plat or any subdivision shall be entitled to record
in the County Recorder’s office or have any validity until the plat, or survey
as applicable, thereof has been prepared, approved and acknowledged in the
manner prescribed by this ordinance.
      (8)   Zoning permits. No building permits shall be issued by the county
for the construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or
to any lot in the subdivision, as defined herein, until all requirements of
this ordinance have been complied with.
      (9)   Limited jurisdiction. This ordinance shall be subject to the rules
and regulations governing plats and subdivision of land in areas where a
municipality has adopted extra territorial jurisdiction in the county. All
applications for plats in areas of the county, which municipalities have by
resolution extended subdivision jurisdiction and in towns who have subdivision
regulations, shall be made to the regulatory power.
   (B)   Minor and major subdivisions.
      (1)   Minor subdivision.
         (a)   When required. A minor subdivision is required for proposed land
divisions that will result in:
            1.   A parcel of land of at least one acre at a density of one unit
per quarter-quarter section in the A- Agricultural District or LR- Limited
Residential Districts;
            2.   A parcel that is subdivided for a purely agricultural purpose
with a covenant approved by the County Planning and Zoning Administrator
prohibiting residential use; or
            3.   A parcel or parcels created in the A-1 Agriculture Protection
District as a receiving site or sites pursuant to process described in §
6.09, Transfer of Development Right (TDR). The minor subdivision may only be
authorized following the recording of an appropriate protective easement or
easements on a standing site or sites and only at the densities described in §
6.09, Transfer of Development Right (TDR).
         (b)   Application. The applicant for a minor subdivision shall submit
a sketch plan of the proposed new lots the information requirements of this
subsection together with an application for a zoning permit meeting the
requirements found in §
3.02, Zoning Permits.
            1.   Survey required. For all new lots five acres or smaller the
applicant shall file a survey prepared and signed by a licensed land surveyor
to the Zoning Administrator of the land to be divided or consolidated.
            2.   Survey exemption. For any minor subdivision that does not
include any lots of five acres or smaller the new lots may be recorded with the
metes and bounds description.
            3.   Deed history. The applicant shall provide the parcel’s deed
history dating back to the first implementation of subdivision regulations (May
17, 1983).
            4.   Drawing. The applicant shall submit any drawing in a
Geographic Information System (GIS) electronic format and/or in an AutoCAD
format that meets the standards of the Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   Administrative approval of application. After the submission of
a completed application and sketch plan, the Zoning Administrator shall review
the application and sketch plan.
            1.   Thirty-day review. The Zoning Administrator shall within 30
days, approve with conditions, or disapprove the application and sketch in
writing and advise the applicant of any stipulations or conditions that are
required in the layout or character of development. The Zoning Administrator
may choose to submit the application to other county departments for review;
however, such review shall be accommodated within the review period stated
above.
               a.   Signed applicant acknowledgment required. The applicant
shall certify in writing that he or she agrees to all requirements or
conditions as stipulated in the Zoning Administrator’s approval.
               b.   Intended use. All parcels being created for the purpose of
residential, commercial or industrial use can comply with all requirements of
this article, meet all relevant zoning and development standard requirements
for the intended use including minimum dimensions and setbacks, and that the
new lot includes frontage on an existing publicly dedicated road or highway.
            2.   Appeal of application review. Within 30 days of receipt of the
Zoning Administrator’s action, the applicant may appeal any disapproval or any
additional requirements or conditions stipulated in the Zoning Administrator’s
approval. The application and sketch plan shall then be forwarded to the
Planning Commission for consideration at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
For the purpose of reviewing the application and sketch plan, the Planning
Commission may hold one or more public hearings. Following review, the Planning
Commission shall recommend to the County Board approval, approval with
conditions or denial of the application. The County Board, at a regularly
scheduled meeting, will then make the final decision.
      (2)   Major subdivision (revised by ordinance amendment 9-16-09). 
         (a)   A major subdivision is required for:
            1.   Proposed land divisions that will result in more than one lot;
            2.   Divisions that would create an increase in residential density
greater than provided for within the code; or
            3.   For any division of land for which development of a new public
or private street or access serving more than one parcel is required.
         (b)   Major subdivisions must follow the sketch plan, preliminary plat
and final plat submittal procedures, plat document requirements, and all other
applicable requirements of this ordinance. This section does not apply to
parcel splits that are exempted as described herein.
   (C)   Design standards.
      (1)   General. Design standards shall assure that the layout of the
subdivision is in harmony with existing adopted plans affecting the development
of its surroundings and shall be in harmony with existing development unless
the proposed development is part of a larger redevelopment plan.
         (a)   The County Board may designate that unique and irreplaceable
natural features which add value to all developments in the county, such as
trees or groves, watercourses, beaches, historic spots, vistas and other
similar irreplaceable assets shall be preserved within the development.
         (b)   Loop streets and other street designs which minimize the need
for cul-de-sacs and maximize access for public safety and county maintenance
vehicles shall be encouraged.
      (2)   Blocks.
         (a)   Blocks shall have sufficient width to provide for two tiers of
lots of appropriate depths. Exceptions to this prescribed block width shall be
permitted in blocks adjacent to major streets, railroads, waterways or
lakeshores.
         (b)   The lengths, widths and shapes of blocks shall be such as are
appropriate for the locality and the type of development contemplated, block
lengths shall normally not exceed 1,320 feet, nor be less than 400 feet in
length. Wherever practicable, blocks along major arterials and collector
streets shall be not less than 1,000 feet in length. In long blocks, the
Planning Commission may require the reservation of an easement through the
block to accommodate utilities, drainage facilities or pedestrian traffic.
Pedestrian ways or crosswalks, not less than ten feet wide, may be required by
the County Board through the center of blocks more than 800 feet long where
deemed essential to provide circulation of pedestrian access to playgrounds,
transportation, shorelands or other, community facilities. Blocks designed for
industrial uses shall be of such length and width as may be determined suitable
for the prospective use.
      (3)   Lots.
         (a)   The minimum lot area, lot width and lot depth shall conform to
the requirements of the zoning district, except in cases where a lot is
dedicated as an outlot (undevelopable), whereby a deed restriction filed with
the county shall permanently prohibit building a structure on the lot.
         (b)   No newly created lot shall contain any building used in whole or
in part for residential purposes unless such lot abuts for at least 66 feet on
at least one street, road or private lane, except 50 feet minimum may be
allowed where no further division or parcels or lots can be created, or if
fronting on a private lane. Where a lot that meets qualifications of a legal
lot of record as of the effective date of this ordinance does not abut a
street, road, or private lane, access may be provided to a public road by an
exclusive, unobstructed private easement of access with a minimum width of 30
feet.
         (c)   Corner lots for residential use shall have additional width to
permit appropriate building setback from both roads as required by the county
zoning ordinance.
         (d)   When possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
         (e)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where backing on a
highway or other arterial road, or where topographic or other conditions render
other designs unreasonable. Such double frontage lots shall have an additional
depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen planting along the
rear lot line.
         (f)   Every lot must have sufficient frontage on a public dedicated
road or street other than an alley, provided, that where private roads are
permitted such frontage may be on a private street.
         (g)   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added
to adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an unusable
outlot or parcel.
          (h)   For major subdivisions, no lot shall have more than six sides
and, unless in the A Agricultural District, panhandle lots are prohibited.
      (4)   Roads, highways, streets and alleys.
         (a)   The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation
to existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographic conditions, to runoff of stormwater and to the proposed uses of the
area to be served.
         (b)   Where new streets extend existing adjoining streets, their
projection shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the
minimum required width.
         (c)   Within major subdivisions, street stub linkages shall be
provided among adjoining existing and proposed subdivisions in order to allow
convenient and effective travel among subdivisions.
            1.   Street stub linkages shall be provided at a ratio of at least
one linkage street right-of-way per 800 linear feet of subdivision or land
development boundary line, which adjoins vacant or undeveloped land, unless
determined to be unnecessary by the Planning Commission.
            2.   Street stub linkages shall be planned and constructed to the
subdivision or land development boundary line. If the stub is in excess of 100
feet in length, then a temporary paved turn-around area shall be provided.
            3.   When the adjoining land is developed, its street system must
connect with and incorporate the previously constructed street stub linkages.
         (d)   Half streets shall be prohibited except where the County Board
finds it to be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided or when an easement for the other half is
dedicated. In such event, access to the half street shall be prohibited until
such adjoining property is subdivided.
         (e)   Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing and named
streets shall bear the names of such existing streets. In no case shall the
name of the proposed street duplicate names, including phonetically similar
names, elsewhere in the county excepting, municipalities.
         (f)   Where a major subdivision is to be located adjacent to a
collector road the County Board shall require that lots back onto those
thoroughfares and be landscaped to provide a buffer zone. Access to the
interior lots shall either be a cul-de-sac or designed as a U-shaped or loop
street.
         (g)   The street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship
to owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
         (h)   Tangents of at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced
between reverse curves on collector streets and 50 feet on lesser streets.
         (i)   Except as linkage street-stubs, dead-end streets shall be
prohibited, but cul-de-sacs will only be permitted when, because of topography
or other conditions, the subdivider can prove to the satisfaction of the
Planning Commission that no reasonable alternative exists. Cul-de-sacs shall
not be longer than 500 feet. Turn-arounds shall have a minimum outside roadway
diameter of 60 feet and a right-or-way diameter of not less than 70 feet.
         (j)   Local streets are intended for access to abutting property and
shall be so aligned that their use by through traffic shall be discouraged*.
         (k)   Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at right angles
and no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 70 degrees. It must be
evident that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged. No intersection
shall contain more than four “corners”. Street jogs with centerline off-sets of
less than 125 feet shall be avoided.
         (l)   For all streets rights-of-way hereafter dedicated and accepted,
the following minimum right-of-way width and grades shall be met:
 
Street          Min Width R.O.W. Min Driving Width Max Grade Min Drainage Grade
Classification
Alley           20 feet          16 feet           8%        0.5%
Local streets*  66 feet          24 feet           8%        0.5%
and roads
Major arterial  100 feet         60 feet           5%        0.5%
Minor arterial/ 80 feet          44 feet           5%        0.5%
collector
Pedestrian way  10 feet          -                 -
Service access  50 feet          24 feet           8%        0.5%
roads
 
         (m)   State Department of Transportation Standards for horizontal and
vertical alignment, grades and the like, shall also be complied to meet county
and township standards.
         (n)   Private streets or roads may be permitted provide these streets
or roads meet the approval of the County Board and standards set forth in this
ordinance. No person shall sell any parcel of land in a subdivision if it abuts
on a road which has not been accepted as a public road unless the seller
informs the purchaser in writing of the fact that the road is not a public road
and is not required to be maintained by the town or county.
         (o)   Minor street access to state and federal highways shall not be
permitted at intervals of less than 600 feet.
         (p)   Street names shall be determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   Easements.
         (a)   An easement for utilities at least six feet wide, shall be
provided along the side of lots and/or the rear line of lots where necessary to
form a continuous right-of-way, at least 12 feet in width. If necessary for the
extension or construction of main water or sewer lines or similar utilities,
easements of greater width may be required along lot lines or across lots.
         (b)   Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. These easements, when approved, shall not thereafter be
changed without the approval of the County Board, after review by the Planning
Commission.
         (c)   Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the
outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the
exterior angle so that pole guys will fall alongside lot lines.
         (d)   Where a subdivision contains or is traversed by a watercourse,
drainageway, channel, lake or stream, a stormwater easement, drainage right-of-
way or park dedication, whichever the County Board may deem the most
appropriate, conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourses,
shall be provided, together with such further width or construction, or both,
as will be adequate for the stormwater drainage of the area. The width of such
easements shall be determined by the County Engineer.
      (6)   Monuments.
         (a)   All plats must depict that durable magnetic markers have been
set at all angle and curve points on the outside boundary lines prior to
recording the plat. The plat must also indicate that all interior block, lot
and witness monuments shall be set within one year after recording the plat.
         (b)   Monuments may be either stone or concrete, or steel bars or iron
pipes of least one-half inch in diameter and 14 inches long and shall have
affixed thereon the license number of the land surveyor certifying the plat.
         (c)   All monuments shall be certified for accuracy by the owner’s
surveyor.
         (d)   It shall be responsibility of the subdivider to ensure that all
monuments and markers are maintained in good condition during and following
construction and development. All section, quarter section, and sixteenth
section corner monuments shall be completely and adequately described and tied.
      (7)   Stormwater management facilities.
         (a)   Location. The applicant may be required by the County Board to
infiltrate or carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that
may exist either previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. Such
management facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible,
or in perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be
constructed in accordance with the construction standards and specifications
outlined in this section, as required in the applicant’s NPDES permit, and
specified by the County Engineer.
         (b)   Accessibility to public storm sewers.
            1.   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the management of stormwaters,
subject to the specifications reviewed by the County Engineer and the
specifications of the applicant’s NPDES permit.
            2.   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the County Engineer and the County Board, the
developer shall make arrangements for future stormwater management by a public
utility system. Provision for such connection shall be incorporated by
Inclusion in the performance bond required for the subdivision plat.
         (c)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The County Engineer shall review plans and specifications provided
by the applicant’s engineer to determine the necessary size of the facility,
based on the provisions of the construction standards and specifications
assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development permitted by the
zoning ordinance.
         (d)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The County Board shall also
study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities
outside the area of the subdivision. Local government drainage studies,
together with such other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a
guide to needed improvements. Where it is anticipated that the subdivision’s
post-development stormwater runoff will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the County Board may withhold approval of the subdivision
until provision has been made to adequate accommodate the post-development
stormwater runoff. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate drainage
will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
         (e)   Floodplain areas. The County Board, may when it deems it
necessary for the health, safety or welfare of the present and future
population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage and
sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any stream or drainage course.
These floodplain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or
damage resulting from clearing, grading or dumping of earth, waste material or
stumps except at the discretion of the County Board.
      (8)   Public sites and open spaces.
         (a)   Where a proposed park, playground or open space is located in
whole or in part in a subdivision, the County Board shall require that such
area or areas be shown on plats in accordance with the requirements specified
in this section. Such area or areas shall be dedicated to the township, county
or to a homeowners’ association responsible for maintenance, by the subdivider
if the County Board approves such dedication.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall require that plats show sites of a
character, extent and location suitable for the development of a park,
playground or other recreation purposes. The Planning Commission may require
that the developer satisfactorily grade any such recreation areas shown on the
plat.
         (c)   In all new major subdivisions the Planning Commission shall
require 5% of the gross area of the subdivision to be dedicated for public
recreation space, school sites or other public use with such percentage being
in addition to property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements or other
public ways, or contribute fee-in-lieu to a capital fund for recreational
facilities. When a subdivision is too small for the practical dedication of
public land or if no land in the subdivision is suitable for such use, the
subdivider shall be required by the county to pay a fee equal to 5% of the land
value prior to subdivision. The land value shall be determined by utilization
of assessment records and formulas that apply thereto of the land subdivided at
its highest and best use. There may be additional open space requirements under
the conservation subdivision requirements in subsection (F) below.
         (d)   Where a private park, playground or other recreational area
shall have been drawn on the final plat, the County Board may also require the
filing of a written agreement between the applicant and the lot owners covering
the cost of grading, development, equipment and maintenance of any such
recreation area.
         (e)   Previously subdivided property from which a park dedication has
been received, being resubdivided with the same number of lots, is exempt from
park dedication requirements. If, as a result of resubdividing the property,
the number of lots is increased, then the park dedication or per lot cash fee
must apply only to the net increase of lots
      (9)   Copies of plats supplied to Commission. Copies of all plats within
shoreland areas approved by the county shall be submitted to the respective
Department of Natural Resources Area Hydrologist within ten days of approval by
the county.
   (D)   Plats; submission procedure and data.
      (1)   Sketch plan.
         (a)   Prior to the filing of an application for approval of the
preliminary plat, the subdivider shall submit for review with the Zoning
Administrator and Planning Commission, subdivision sketch plans which shall
contain the following information: tract boundaries; north point; description
of nature and purpose of tract; streets on and adjacent to the tract;
significant topographical and physical features; proposed general street
layout; and proposed general lot layout.
         (b)   Such sketch plans will be considered as submitted for informal
and confidential discussion between the subdivider, the Zoning Administrator,
and the Planning Commission. Submission of a subdivision sketch plan shall not
constitute formal filing of a plat with the Commission.
         (c)   As far as may be practical on the basis of a sketch plan, the
Commission staff will informally advise the subdivider as promptly as possible
of the extent to which the proposed subdivision conforms to the design
standards of this ordinance and will discuss possible plan modifications
necessary to ensure conformance.
      (2)   Preliminary plat.
         (a)   Procedure.
            1.   Report. The County Planner shall submit a report to the
Planning Commission concerning the feasibility of the proposed plat and its
conformance with the requirements of this ordinance. If the County Engineer is
submitting the preliminary plat, the report shall be submitted by another
qualified person who shall be selected by the Planning Commission.
            2.   Recommendations of the affected townships, Soil and Water
Conservation Districts and Watershed District. The developer shall submit the
preliminary plat to the affected township (to the Township Clerk by certified
mail or hand delivery with written acknowledgment), soil and water conservation
district, and watershed district when the preliminary plat has been submitted
to the Planning and Zoning Department. The affected township, soil and water
conservation district and watershed district shall have 25 days from the date
the preliminary plat was submitted to the Planning and Zoning Department in
which to submit its written recommendation to the Planning and Zoning
Department, regarding the proposed preliminary plat. Such recommendation shall
indicate approval or disapproval, reasons for such a recommendation and may
include recommended changes to the proposed preliminary plat. If no
recommendation is forthcoming from the township within the 25 days or if a
written recommendation is received in less than 25 days, the Planning
Commission may proceed with the necessary public hearing. The application shall
not be considered complete until comments have been received by the impacted
township, the township has waived any rights to comment or the township’s 25-
day review period has expired.
            3.   Consideration by the Planning Commission. A petition for
approval of a preliminary plat shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
which shall hold a public hearing on the petition within 30 days of its
submission to the county. Notice of the time, place, subject matter and purpose
of the public hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the
county at least ten days before the hearing. Written notice of the public
hearing shall also be sent at least ten days before the hearing to all owners
of record within one-half mile of the affected property and also to the
affected board of town supervisors and municipal council of any municipality
within two miles of the affected property. After completion of it
deliberations, the Planning Commission shall within ten days make a
recommendation to the Board of County Commissioners along with a report on its
findings. In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of
the reason for such action.
            4.   Consideration by the County Board.
               a.   A petition for approval of a preliminary plat which has
been reviewed by the Planning Commission shall be submitted to the County Board
which shall hold a public hearing thereon and either disapprove or approve the
petition within 60 days of the submission of a completed application to the
county. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in the same manner as
provided in §
3.01(C) (Notification Requirements). After completion of its deliberations, the
County Board shall within 60 days of the submission of a completed application
to the county act on each plat, which has been recommended for approval by the
Planning Commission.
               b.   A petition for approval of a preliminary plat which has
been disapproved by the Planning Commission may be submitted to the County
Board by the petitioner. The petitioner shall have the right to petition within
30 days after receipt of notice of the decision by the Planning Commission. The
County Board shall hold a public hearing thereon and either disapprove or
approve the petition. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in the same
manner as provided in §
3.01(C) (Notification Requirements).
               c.   Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat shall be
conveyed to the subdivider in writing within 60 days of the submission of a
completed application to the county. In case the plat is disapproved, the
subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and what
requirements will be necessary to meet the approval of the County Board. The
approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an acceptance of the
subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed with the final
plat. This approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of
six months, unless an extension is granted by the County Board.
               d.   The subdivider may file a final plat limited to such
portion of the preliminary plat which he or she proposes to record and develop
at the time, provided that such portion must conform to all requirements of
this ordinance. If some portion of the final plat has not been submitted to the
County Board for approval within this period, a preliminary plat must again be
submitted to the Planning Commission and County Board for approval.
         (b)   Data required. The subdivider shall prepare and submit a
preliminary plat as follows, together with any necessary supplementary
information:
            1.   Filing. Six copies of a preliminary plat of any proposed
subdivision shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
            2.   Contents. The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
               a.   Proposed name of subdivision, names shall not duplicate or
too closely resemble names of existing subdivisions;
               b.   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section,
quarter section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description
of the property;
               c.   Names and addresses of the subdivider and the designer
making the plat;
               d.   Graphic scale of plat, not less than one inch to 100 feet
and indicated scale;
               e.   Date and north point;
               f.   Existing conditions:
                  i.   Location, width, and name of each existing or platted
street, road or other public way, railroad, the utility right-of-way, parks,
wildlife and other public open spaces, and permanent buildings, within or
adjacent to the proposed subdivision;
                  ii.   All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts,
power or communication cables or other underground installations within the
proposed subdivision or immediately adjacent thereto;
                  iii.   Location of environmentally sensitive areas including
floodplains, shoreland areas, steep slopes, wetlands and other natural features
that affect the suitability of the land for the intended purpose; and
                  iv.   Topographic data with a contour interval of not move
than two feet and supplemental of one foot in extremely flat areas;
watercourses, lakes, delineated wetlands, wooded areas, rock outcrops, power
transportation poles and lines, gas lines, steep slopes, areas with hydric
soils and other significant existing features for the proposed subdivision and
adjacent property;
               g.   Proposed development:
                  i.   The location and width of proposed streets, roads,
alleys, pedestrian ways and easements and gang or group mailboxes. Typical road
cross-sections shall be provided showing grading within the right-of-way,
traveled way width, type and thickness of surfacing proposed, base course
thickness and type. The road shall show any connections with adjacent local
streets or possible future connections with streets on adjacent undeveloped
property;
                  ii.   The location and character of all proposed public
utility lines, including sewers (storm and sanitary), water, gas and power
lines. All on-site sanitation and water supply facilities shall be designed to
meet the minimum specifications of the County Public Health Officer and County
SSTS standards, and the plan for such facilities certified by the subdivider’s
licensed engineer or licensed septic system installer;
                  iii.   Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and
the number of each block;
                  iv.   Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds,
churches, school sites or other special uses of the land to be considered for
dedication to public use, or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of
all property owners in the subdivision and any conditions of such dedication or
reservation;
                  v.   Building setback lines with dimensions;
                  vi.   Indication of any lots on which a use other than
residential is proposed by the subdivider; and
                  vii.   The zoning district, if any, on and adjacent to the
tract.
               h.   Vicinity sketch, at a legible scale, to show the relation
of the plat to its surroundings;
               i.   Any soil tests and reports that may be required by the
County Engineer, shall be completed by an approved soils laboratory;
               j.   An approximate grading plan and sediment and erosion
control plan that is in compliance with the site’s NPDES permit;
               k.   All lands proposed to be dedicated to public use and the
conditions of such dedication;
               l.   A copy of all proposed private restrictions;
               m.   A notarized certification of approval by the owner and by
any mortgage holder of the property of the adoption of the plat and the
dedications required by this ordinance;
               n.   A current written title opinion from a qualified attorney
certifying that the fee simple title to the premises is owned by the developer.
The final plat shall also contain a statement in the same effect and signed by
a qualified attorney; and
               o.   The subdivider shall provide the subject parcel’s deed
history dating back to the first implementation of subdivision regulations (May
17, 1983).
         (c)   Supplementary requirements. Upon request of the Planning
Commission, supplementary information shall be submitted; such supplementary
information may include the following:
            1.   Two copies of profiles for each proposed street and road,
showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients on the
centerline. The location of proposed culverts and bridges shall also be shown;
and
            2.   Proposed surface drainage diagrams for lots in the form of
arrows, proposed contours or other appropriate method.
      (3)   Final plat.
         (a)   Procedure. After the preliminary plat has been approved, the
final plat may be submitted for approval as follows.
            1.   Report. The County Planner shall submit a report to the
Planning Commission regarding the conformance of the proposed final plat to the
approved preliminary plat, the requirements of this ordinance and all
provisions of the state statutes regarding the platting of land.
            2.   Review of the Planning Commission and notice requirements. A
petition for approval of a final plat shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission which shall hold a public hearing on the petition. Notice of the
time, place, subject matter and purpose of the public hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of the County at least ten days before the
hearing. Written notice of the public hearing shall also be sent at least ten
days before the hearing to all owners of record within one-half mile of the
affected property or to the nearest ten property owners whichever would provide
to the greatest number of owners and also to the affected board of town
supervisors and to the Township Clerk (by certified mail or hand delivery with
written acknowledgment), and the municipal council of any municipality within
two miles of the affected property. After completion of its deliberations, the
Planning Commission shall within 60 days make a recommendation to the County
Board along with a report on its findings. In case the plat is disapproved, the
subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and what
requirements will be necessary to meet the approval of the Planning Commission.
            3.   Approval of the County Board. A petition for approval of a
final plat which has been reviewed by the Planning Commission shall be
submitted to County Board which shall hold a public hearing thereon and either
approve or disapprove the petition. Notice of the public hearing shall be given
in the same manner as provided in §
3.01(C) (Notification Requirements). The County Board shall act on each plat
forwarded by the Planning Commission within 30 days after submission to County
Board, if accepted the final plat shall be approved by resolution which
resolution shall provide for the dedication of all streets, roads, alleys,
easements or other public ways and parks or other open spaces dedicated to
public purposes. If disapproved, the grounds, for any refusal to approve a plat
shall be set forth in the proceedings of the Board and reported to the
subdivider applying for such approval. Once approved, the final plat shall be
recorded within 90 days of the date of Board approval. A final plat not so
filed and recorded within 12 months of the date upon which the plat is approved
shall become null and void.
         (b)   Data required. The subdivider shall submit a final plat together
with any necessary supplementary information.
            1.   Filing. Eight copies of a final plat shall be filed with the
Planning Commission.
            2.   Contents. The final plat, prepared for recording purposes,
shall be prepared in accordance with provisions of state statutes and as
required below:
               a.   Names of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too
closely approximate the name of any existing subdivision;
               b.   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must be mathematically
close. The allowable error of closure on any portion of final plat shall be
two-tenths of a foot;
               c.   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on
the final plat. Location of such monuments shall be shown in reference to
existing official monuments or the nearest established road lines, in true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments. Permanent markers
shall be placed at each corner of every block or portion of a block, points of
curvature and points of tangency or road lines, and at each angle point on the
boundary of the subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a steel
rod or pipe, one-half inch or larger in diameter and be a minimum of 14 inches
long. In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the
locations prescribed above, offset markers will be permitted. The exact
location of all markers shall be shown on the final plat, together with
accurate interior angles, bearings and distances. Permanent monuments shall be
placed at all quarter section points within the subdivision or on its
perimeter;
               d.   Location of lots, streets, roads, highways, alleys, parks
and other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with
the length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines;
               e.   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks shall be shown
clearly in the center of the block;
               f.   The exact locations, widths and names of all public ways to
be dedicated;
               g.   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated;
               h.   Name of subdivider and surveyor making the plat;
               i.   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in
feet per inch), date and north point;
               j.   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: Easements
for installation and maintenance of public utilities and drainage facilities
are reserved over, under and along the strips marked “utility easements”;
               k.   If the plat contains areas within the floodplain,
restrictive deed covenants shall be filed with the final plat and shall provide
that the floodplain areas be left essentially in the state shown on the plat;
and require that any additions or modifications to these facilities will not
violate any provisions of the floodplain zoning ordinance or supplemental
regulations;
               l.   An attorney’s opinion of title showing title or control of
the property to be subdivided;
               m.   A complete set of street profiles showing the grade as
constructed;
               n.   Copies of private restrictions affecting the subdivision;
               o.   A notarized statement from the County Auditor certifying
that there are no delinquent taxes on the property to be subdivided; and
               p.   An electronic Geographic Information Systems (GIS)
submission of the approved final plat that meets the standards of the Zoning
Administrator.
         (c)   Filing fee. The final plat shall be accompanied by a fee as
established by the County Board. Such fees to be used for the expense of the
county in connection with the review, inspection, approval or disapproval of
the plat which may thereafter be submitted.
         (d)   Certification required.
            1.   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder
of record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets, roads and
other public areas;
            2.   Notarized certification by a licensed land surveyor, or county
surveyor, to the effect that the plat represents a survey made by him or her
and that monuments and markers shown therein exist as located and that all
dimensional and geodetic details are correct;
            3.   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments
due on the property have been paid in full; and
            4.   Space for certificates of review to be filled in by the
signatures of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission and certificate of
approval by the Chairperson of the County Board. The forms of approval by the
Planning Commission are as follows.
Reviewed by the Waseca County Planning Commission this ____day of ____________,
20____.
Signed:      ______________________________________________________
Chairperson:      ______________________________________________________
Attest:         ______________________________________________________
Secretary      ______________________________________________________
The form of approval of the Board of County Commissioners is as follows:
Approved by Waseca County Board of Commissioners, Minnesota this ______ day of
______, 20__.
Signed:      ______________________________________________________
Chairperson, Board of County Commissioners
Attest:         ______________________________________________________
County Auditor   ______________________________________________________
The form of approval by the Waseca County Surveyor or a licensed land surveyor
is as follows:
Examined and recommended for approval this __________ day of _____, 20___.
Signed:
______________________________________________________
Waseca County Surveyor or
Licensed land surveyor No.__________________
(for plat submitted by County Surveyor)
         (e)   Supplementary documents and information. Supplementary documents
and information may be required as follows:
            1.   A complete set of the proposed street profiles showing the
proposed grade lines as proposed to be constructed;
            2.   Copies of any private restrictions affecting the subdivision
or any part thereof;
            3.   Signatures of municipal or township officials approving the
plat, when such approval is required by state law; and
            4.   At least one print of the final plat shall be deposited with
the County Auditor. This print shall contain the calculated square footage or
acreage of all lots and outlots shown on the plat.
   (E)   Required improvements.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   Developer agreement required. Before a final plat is approved by
the County Board, except in the case of minor subdivisions wherein the
Commission imposes no condition or conditions for the approval of the plat, the
subdivider shall execute and submit to the County Board an agreement, which
shall be binding on his or hers or their heirs, personal representatives and
assigns, stating:
            1.   The subdivider will develop the subdivision according to the
development phases agreed upon by the county and the subdivider; stating
specifically the development phases;
            2.   The subdivider will cause no private construction to be made
on the plat or file or cause to be filed any application for permits for such
private construction until all improvements required under this ordinance and
those denoted on preliminary plat have been made for each development phase;
            3.   The subdivider will furnish and construct the improvements at
his or her sole cost and in accordance with plans and specification of the
preliminary plat and of this ordinance;
            4.   The Board of Commissioners may accept a final plat for
recording where the owner and/or developer of the platted subdivision furnished
a certified check, surety bond or other method of financial assurance
acceptable to the Board of Commissioners, in sufficient amount to cover the
construction costs of improvements required by this article, and/or agreed to
by the subdivider. All improvements allowed to be deferred in this section
shall be completed as specified in subsection (E)(1)(b) below;
            5.   The subdivider will guarantee completion of the required
improvements within two years from the date the final plat was approved by the
County Board unless an extension of time is granted by the County Board upon
the recommendation of the Planning Commission; and
            6.   The subdivider agreement shall also be the responsibility
party and source of funding to ensure the long-term maintenance of improvements
that are not dedicated to the county.
         (b)   Financial guarantee required.
            1.   Developers shall be allowed to complete roads and other public
improvements prior to recording of the final plat. This work shall be completed
within one year of approval of the plat. If the improvements are not completed
within a year, the Board of Commissioners may accept a final plat for recording
where the owner and/or developer of the platted subdivision furnished a
certified check, surety bond or other method of financial assurance acceptable
to the Board of Commissioners, in sufficient amount to cover the construction
costs of improvements required by this article, and/or agreed to by the
subdivider. All improvements allowed to be deferred in this section shall be
constructed within two years of approval of the plat, unless an extension of
time is applied for and granted by the Planning Commission and Board of
Commissioners, as set forth in herein. New or adjusted Engineer’s cost
estimates shall be reviewed by the County Engineer to determine whether they
adequately reflect current construction costs when extensions of time are
requested, or at any other time deemed appropriate by the County Engineer.
            2.   The subdivider’s engineer of record shall present a final
itemized cost estimate for required and proposed improvements to the Planning
Department with the final plat. Such engineer’s cost estimate shall be
forwarded to the County Engineer for review and verification of costs. If the
estimate for required improvements is deemed acceptable, the County Engineer
shall certify the amount to the Board of Commissioners.
            3.   The amount of such certified check or surety bond shall be
determined by the County Engineer and the stipulated period covered by such
bond shall generally be for a period of one year. In no case, however, shall
the period of performance bonds exceed two years.
            4.   The subdivider may make application for release of portions of
his or her performance bond, or other approved method of financial assurance,
as required improvements are completed and certified to the County Engineer.
Such request and certification shall be by subdivided engineer of record.
Application for release of portions of the bonded indebtedness by the engineer
of record shall state the extent of construction completed and amount to be
released. Certification shall be accomplished via submission of as-built plans
and such testing data as required by the County Engineer. Releases shall be in
increments approximately equal to 25% of the bonded indebtedness.
         (c)   Subdivider’s engineer certification of improvements. No final
plat shall be approved by the County Board without first receiving a report
from the subdivider’s engineer certifying that the improvements described
herein, together with the agreements and documents required herein, meet the
minimum requirements of all applicable ordinances. A report from the County
Engineer shall confirm the subdivider’s engineer’s certification.
         (d)   County Engineer inspections required. All of the required
improvements to be installed under the provisions of this ordinance shall be
inspected during the course of the construction by the County Engineer. All of
the inspection costs pursuant thereto shall be paid by the subdivider in the
manner prescribed in this subsection (E) (Required Improvements).
            1.   Inspection of improvements. At least ten days prior to
commencing construction and at least ten days prior to the completion of
construction of required improvements, the subdivider shall notify the Zoning
Administrator and the County Engineer in writing of the anticipated
commencement and anticipated completion of improvements so that they may cause
inspection to be made to assure that all specifications and requirements shall
be met during the construction of required improvements, and to assure the
satisfactory completion of improvements and utilities required. The County
Engineer may designate a consulting engineer licensed in the state to complete
this work. If a consulting engineer is utilized, all expenses incurred shall be
paid by the subdivider.
            2.   All County Engineer and Zoning Administrator inspections and
construction plan reviews shall be at the expense of the subdivider. If the
County Engineer and/or County Zoning Administrator finds upon inspection that
any of the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with
the county’s construction standards and specifications, the subdivider shall be
responsible for completing the improvements. Whenever the cost of improvements
is covered by a performance bond or an escrow deposit, the applicant and the
bonding company shall be severally and jointly-liable for completing the
improvements according to specifications.
         (e)   Construction plans required. Construction plans for the required
improvements conforming to adopted standards of this ordinance shall be
prepared at the subdivided expense by a professional engineer. Such plans,
together with the quantities of construction materials, shall be submitted to
the County Engineer at the direction of the County Board for his or her review
and comment. The County Engineer may designate a consulting engineer licensed
in the state to complete this work. If a consulting engineer is utilized, all
expenses incurred shall be paid by the subdivider. The subdivider shall also
pay for the cost of the County Engineer’s review. Upon approval, the plans
shall be the basis of the cost portion of the contract described herein. The
tracings of the plans reviewed by the County Engineer plus two prints shall be
submitted and placed on file with the County Engineer. Plans for the
installation of gas and electric facilities shall be submitted to the County
Engineer and Zoning Administrator upon their submission and approval by the
appropriate utility agencies. The appropriate utility agencies shall have
approved the plans prior to the approval of the final plat. Financial
arrangements for these facilities shall be between the subdivider and the
appropriate utility agency.
         (f)   Modification of the design of improvements. If at anytime before
or during the construction of the required improvements it is demonstrated to
the satisfaction of the County Engineer that unforeseen conditions make it
necessary or preferable to modify the location or design of such required
improvements, the County Engineer may, upon approval by the Chairperson of the
County Board, authorize modifications provided these modifications are within
the spirit and intent of the original approval and do not extend to the waiver
or substantial alteration of the function of any improvements required. The
County Engineer shall issue any authorization under this section in writing and
shall transmit a copy of such authorization to the Planning Commission and the
County Board.
         (g)   Proper installation of improvements. If the County Engineer and/
or County Zoning Administrator shall find, upon inspection of the improvements
performed before the expiration date of any performance bond, that any of the
required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with plans and
specifications filed by the subdivider, he or she shall so report to the County
Board and Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator then shall notify the
subdivider and, if necessary, the bonding company, and take all necessary steps
to preserve the county’s rights under the bond.
         (h)   Public acceptance of required improvements. Approval by the
County Board of a final plat shall not be deemed to constitute or be evidence
of any acceptance of any municipality, town, county or the state of any street,
required improvement, easement, or other right-of-way shown on such final plat
unless specifically so stated on the final plat. The acceptance shall be made
by the County Board of a municipality, town, county or state.
         (i)   Certificate of satisfactory completion. The County Board will
not release nor reduce a performance bond until all requirements have been
satisfactorily completed. After review and inspection of the required
improvements by the County Engineer, the County Board shall require a statement
from the subdivider’s engineer certifying that the required improvements are
satisfactorily completed. The County Engineer may designate a consulting
engineer licensed in the state to complete this work. If a consulting engineer
is utilized, all expenses incurred shall be paid by the subdivider.
         (j)   Maintenance of improvements. A subdivider shall be required to
maintain all improvements within the subdivision until acceptance of the
improvements by the County Board or affected town board. For improvements not
accepted or dedicated to the county, the subdivider shall execute and submit to
the County Board an agreement, which shall be binding on the subdivider, the
subdivider’s heirs, personal representatives and assigns, which provides for
the long-term maintenance of the improvements.
      (2)   Road and highway improvements.
         (a)   The full width of the right-of-way shall be graded, including
the subgrade of the areas to be paved, in accordance with standards and
specifications for road construction as approved by the County Board.
         (b)   All roads shall be improved with pavement in accordance with the
standards and specifications for road construction as approved by the County
Board.
         (c)   All roads to be paved shall be of an overall width in accordance
with the standards and specifications for road construction as approved by the
County Board.
         (d)   Storm sewers, culverts, stormwater inlets and other drainage
facilities will be required where they are necessary to ensure adequate
stormwater drainage for the subdivision. Where required, such drainage
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specification for road construction as approved by the County Board.
         (e)   Road signs of the standard design approved by the County Board
shall be installed at each street or road intersection at the developer’s
expense.
      (3)   Stormwater management facilities. Every subdivision shall be
provided with a stormwater management system adequate to collect and infiltrate
or convey all water originating on or flowing across the property without
inundating or damaging roads, lots or other property and consistent with the
applicant’s NPDES permit and the State Pollution Control Agency’s Stormwater
Manual.
      (4)   Grading, sediment and erosion control. As required by county
standards, grading and sediment control plans shall be approved prior to the
start of any grading, excavation, fill or other construction activities
integral to the development of the subdivision, including roads, drainage
ditches, sediment basins and buildings. The sediment and erosion control must
be in compliance with the site’s NPDES permit.
      (5)   Accommodating future public water supply and sewerage facilities.
         (a)   Where determined appropriate by the Planning Commission,
subdivisions shall be designed so as allow for the future installation of
community or public water supply and sewerage facilities in the most efficient
and economical manner. Utility easements shall be reserved in all locations
necessary for the future installations of public water facilities.
         (b)   Where individual water supply and sewerage is used and future
public utilities are designed to be accommodated, the plat shall include a note
using language approved by the Planning Commission indicating that such systems
are interim and that they shall be discontinued and connection made to public
facilities when they become available.
         (c)   Every subdivision required to accommodate a future community or
public water system shall provide an adequate number of appropriately spaced
fire hydrants and other necessary fire protection facilities. The source of
water supply and quantity and location of the fire hydrants and other fire
protection facilities shall be sufficient as required by the city most adjacent
to the proposed development.
      (6)   Public utilities.
         (a)   All utility lines for telephone and electric service shall be
placed in rear line easements when carried on overheard poles.
         (b)   Where telephone, electric and/or gas service lines are to be
placed underground entirely, conduits or cables shall be placed within
easements or dedicated public ways, in such a manner so as not to conflict with
other underground services. All drainage and other underground utility
installations, which traverse privately owned property, shall be protected by
easements. If the subdivider successfully obtains a variance, after submitting
information to the Board of Zoning Adjustment that such a variance is required,
to place utilities outside the public right-of-way, any future relocation of
the utility due to road maintenance or construction efforts is the
responsibility of the utility company.
      (7)   Mailboxes. Group, gang mailboxes or neighborhood box units are
required for major subdivisions. Their location shall not obstruct vehicle or
pedestrian traffic or be located within a roadside ditch; in addition, their
location shall be at a place to provide maximum convenience to the postal
carrier.
   (F)   Conservation subdivision.
      (1)   Purpose. The purposes of the conservation subdivision are:
         (a)   To implement the goals of the County Comprehensive Plan for
protection of natural resources;
         (b)   To allow development that permanently preserves the open space,
agricultural lands, woodlands, wetlands, critical views and other natural
features of rural Waseca County;
         (c)   To allow limited development in rural areas that do not contain
natural resources, such as agricultural and forest lands, and significant
natural areas;
         (d)   To allow limited development in areas outside where urban
services will not be extended;
         (e)   To connect open space, trails and recreation sites within the
subdivision and to open spaces and recreational facilities of the county;
         (f)   To allow flexibility in the placement and type of dwelling units
within the subdivision;
         (g)   To reduce the amount of new roads and to allow flexibility in
road specifications for roads serving residences in the subdivision; and
         (h)   To reduce the amount of impervious surfaces in subdivisions,
including driveways.
      (2)   Development standards.
         (a)   Maximum residential density. The maximum gross density of
conservation subdivisions is 16 dwelling units per 40 acres.
         (b)   Minimum lot size. The average lot size of the conservation
subdivision shall be not less than the minimum lot size of the underlying
zoning district.
      (3)   Common open space requirement.
         (a)   Conservation subdivisions shall identify a conservation theme.
Conservation themes may include, but are not limited to: forest preservation;
water quality preservation; farmland preservation; or viewshed preservation.
The conservation theme should guide the location and use of the designated
common open space.
         (b)   Fifty percent of the total acreage in the application, including
developable and undevelopable land, shall be designated as common open space
for natural habitat, active or passive recreation and/or conservation or
preservation, including conservation for agricultural and forestry uses.
         (c)    Where possible, designated common open space shall be
contiguous with common open space uses on adjacent parcels in order to provide
large expanses of common open space.
         (d)   Common open space in conservation subdivisions shall be
physically connected, whenever possible, to adjacent open spaces. Designated
public trail systems which abut a conservation subdivision shall be connected
through the subdivision.
         (e)   Access shall be provided to designated active or passive
recreation areas or open space or natural areas from one or more streets in the
subdivision.
         (f)   Access will not be required if the common open space is to
remain in active agriculture or forestry or if the natural areas contain
habitat where public access should be limited.
         (g)   No more than 50% of the designated common open space shall be
wetlands and/or floodplains.
      (4)   Common open space ownership and management. To ensure the continued
existence and functioning of the common open space and the development as a
community, the following administrative requirements shall be met.
         (a)   Generally. There shall be a development organization created and
functioning for developments of more than eight lots or dwelling unit lots.
Unless an equally effective alternative community framework is approved by the
Planning Commission and established, when there is common open space or any
other common element, all residential developments of more than eight lots or
dwelling unit lots shall include an owners’ association with the following
features:
            1.   Membership shall be mandatory and automatic for each lot or
dwelling unit lot owner and any successive owners.
            2.   Require that each owner in the development have an undivided
ownership in the common open space and other common elements.
            3.   Each member shall pay a pro rata share of the association’s
expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites.
            4.   Assessments shall be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions.
            5.   The association shall be responsible for insurance, taxes and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities, and shall enforce
covenants, deed restrictions and easements.
            6.   The association shall have a long-term management plan for any
common open space and shall administer the plan in accordance with the terms of
the county’s conservation easement on the common open space.
            7.   Amendments or revisions to covenants or deed restrictions.
Before establishing or recording any common interest community, the developer
shall submit documents, including all covenants, conditions, restrictions,
easements and operating rules and procedures associated with the development,
for review and approval by the Planning Commission pursuant to M.S. § 515B.1-
106, as it may be amended from time to time. Such documents shall provide that
no amendments or revisions of covenants or deed restrictions may be made unless
approved in advance by the Department and the Planning Commission. Any such
amendments or revisions made without such approval shall not be effective.
         (b)   Common open space preservation. A permanent conservation
easement to ensure perpetual preservation and maintenance of common open space
shall be created and such easement shall not be modified or terminated without
approval of the County Board. The form of the easement shall be approved by the
county. The instruments of the easement shall incorporate the provisions of
this subsection (F)(4) governing common open space, including, without
limitation, all of the following protections:
            1.   Regulate construction impervious surfaces and/or recreation
facilities in accordance with the long-term management plan;
            2.   Prohibit beaching of motorized watercraft when used as an
unauthorized mooring space;
            3.   Prohibit dumping, storage or burning of solid or other wastes;
            4.   Allow the use of common open space for subsurface sewage
treatment systems if other use of the space is restricted to avoid adverse
impacts on the sewage treatment system; and
            5.   Restrict in perpetuity the common open space from further
subdivision and/or land development.
         (c)   Other common elements. Common elements such as areas designated
for storage of vehicles and personal property may be designated, provided that
open space requirements are met, in accordance with the long-term management
plan.
         (d)   Residential developments of eight or more lots or dwelling unit
lots with common open space. The common open space may be retained by the
landowner, owners’ association and/or the developer and may be sold to any
subsequent landowner, provided:
            1.   The common open space is surveyed;
            2.   The common open space remains undivided and is restricted from
further development by means of a permanent conservation easement. The
permanent conservation easement shall comply with the provisions of subsection
(F)(4)(b) above;
            3.   The landowner, owner’s association and/or the developer shall
be responsible for insurance, taxes and maintenance of all common open space,
property and facilities, and shall enforce covenants, deed restrictions and
easements; and
            4.   The landowner, owner’s association and/or the developer shall
have and administer a long-term management plan for any common open space,
property and facilities.
         (e)   Notice; failure. In the event the person or entity responsible
for administration of the long-term management plan fails to administer and
perform all or any portion of the plan relating to common open space, the
county may serve written notice upon such person or entity setting forth the
manner in which the such person or entity has failed to administer and perform
the plan. The notice shall set forth the nature of corrections required and a
reasonable time within which to complete corrective action. If corrective
action is not completed within a reasonable time, the county may, but the
county is not required to, assume responsibility for administration and
performance of the plan with respect to such failures, and in furtherance of
such action the county may enter the premises and take all corrective action as
may be reasonable, including extended maintenance. The costs of such corrective
action may be charged to the person or entity responsible for administration of
the long-term management plan or individual property owners who make up a
homeowners’ association and may include administrative costs. The costs shall
become a lien upon and assessed against the properties that have the right of
enjoyment of the common open space.
      (5)   Common utilities. Individual well and septic systems are allowed in
conservation subdivisions; however, common utilities (shared water and/or sewer
or septic systems) are an option. Common utilities shall meet State Pollution
Control Agency standards for sewage treatment systems and be approved by the
County Public Health Services Department. Communal drainfields for shared
septic systems may be partially or completely located in designated open space,
provided that:
         (a)   The dedicated open space parcel containing the communal
drainfield is owned in fee by a owner’s association which owns non-open space
land within the subdivision and in which membership in the association by all
property owners in the subdivision shall be mandatory; or communal drainfields
in common open space with conservation easements may be owned by a public or
non-profit entity;
         (b)   The common ownership association is responsible for maintenance
and repair of the communal drainfield;
         (c)   The ground cover is restored to its natural condition after
installation;
         (d)   Recreational uses are prohibited above or within fifty feet of
communal drainfields; and
         (e)   The conservation easement for the dedicated open space parcel
describes the location of the communal drainfield.
      (6)   Lot and building site design. Lots and building sites shall be
designed to achieve the following objectives listed in order of priority:
         (a)   Locating individual and communal septic systems on the most
suitable soils for subsurface septic disposal;
         (b)   Locating lots and building sites on the least fertile soils for
agricultural uses, and in a manner which maximizes the usable area remaining
for such agricultural use;
         (c)   Locating building sites within any non-production forest land
contained in the lot, or along the edges of open fields adjacent to woodlands
only as a means to reduce the impact on agriculture, to provide summer shade
and shelter from winter wind, and/or to enable buildings to be visually
absorbed by natural landscape features;
         (d)   Locating building sites in areas least likely to block or
interrupt scenic vistas as viewed from roads; and
         (e)   Locating building sites to minimize the impact of blocks of
forest land and to maximize the continuity of forest lands.
      (7)   Buffer zones. Buffer zones of at least 100 feet shall be required
between residential structures and agricultural uses. The buffer areas shall be
appropriately planted with native grasses, forbs, shrubs and trees, and/or
permanent agriforestry features such as fruit or nut trees, and/or a windbreak.
Roads may be substituted for the buffer if the road creates an effective
barrier separating yards from agricultural uses as determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (8)   Streets. Streets within the conservation subdivision shall be
developed according to the following standards that promote road safety,
minimize visual impacts and minimize impervious surfaces.
         (a)   Streets shall be designed to minimize the visual size and scale
of the development and help discourage excessive speeds.
         (b)   Street widths and construction shall conform to the width and
standards contained in the street cross section without curb and gutters (or
rural cross section) as adopted by the county.
         (c)   Street surface for local streets within the subdivision may be
gravel, or other surface with high permeability, unless the streets are an
extension of existing paved roads.
         (d)   The number of local street intersections with collector and
arterial roads should be minimized, however, the applicant must demonstrate
that such intersections are adequate, have the capacity to handle traffic
generated by the proposed project, and will not endanger the safety of the
general public.
         (e)   If conservation subdivisions abut one another or existing
development, direct links should be made to emphasize the connection between
existing and new development.
      (9)   Subdivision process. The subdivision process for a conservation
subdivision shall comply with county subdivision procedures and at a minimum
shall include the following:
         (a)   The pre-application meeting with the Zoning Administrator to
discuss:
            1.   The conservation theme;
            2.   The county design guidelines;
            3.   Any proposed common ownership plans for land and structures;
and
            4.   Management and ownership of designated open space.
         (b)   In addition, for sketch plan document requirements for major
subdivisions, the sketch plan for a conservation subdivision must include:
            1.   A mapped resource inventory that includes:
               a.   Topographic contours at ten-foot intervals; depth to
bedrock, and suitability for wastewater disposal systems;
               b.   Hydrologic characteristics, including surface water bodies,
floodplains, wetlands, natural swales and drainageways; and
               c.   Vegetation present on the site according to cover type
(pasture, woodland and the like) and vegetative type (classified as generally
deciduous, coniferous or mixed), and described by plant community (such as the
State Department of Natural Resources Natural Heritage Community types),
relative age and condition, also noting trees with a caliper of more than 18
inches.
            2.   A site analysis that identifies, precisely locates, and for:
a. and b. calculates the acreage of:
               a.   Primary conservation areas, including protected wetlands,
floodplains, natural resource protection zones, steep slopes;
               b.   Secondary conservation areas;
               c.   Special views;
               d.   Connections to adjacent open space;
               e.   Net developable acreage and allowed gross density as
allowed by the base zoning district; and
               f.   Street and open space concept.
            3.   Building setbacks;
            4.   Parcel lines and building placement concepts for residential
and accessory buildings;
            5.   Utility easements; and
            6.   If applicable, statement of intent to establish a homeowners’
association.
      (10)   Non-riparian lots. Tier developments shall consider utilization of
a common lakeshore area for those lots not having lakeshore frontage. Such
areas may be for use only by owners within the subdivision or other means
acceptable to the County Board. Road and lot arrangement should meet the
provisions of this selection, but also be designed to accommodate the best use
of the shoreland to the enjoyment of future residents.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 123, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 153, passed 6-6-
2023; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 3.07 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish application
procedures for conditional use permit, standards and criteria applicable to all
conditional uses and specific requirements applicable to certain conditional
uses.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   Conditional use permits may be issued for any and only the uses or
purposes for which such permits are required or permitted by provisions of this
ordinance.
      (2)   Applications for conditional use permits shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator with required fees. The application shall:
         (a)   Indicate the section of the ordinance under which the
conditional use is allowed and the grounds on which the permit is requested;
         (b)   Describe the site (legal description);
         (c)   Provide the names and addresses of the applicant, the owner of
the site and any architect, professional engineer or contractor employed by the
applicant, and the signature of the applicant and the owner;
         (d)   Be accompanied by a site plan showing such information as is
necessary to show compliance with this ordinance, which may include:
            1.   Site plan drawn at scale showing parcel and building
dimensions;
            2.   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
            3.   Location of curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking
spaces, off-street loading areas and sidewalks;
            4.   Landscaping and screening plans;
            5.   Drainage plan;
            6.   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
            7.   Soil type;
            8.   In shoreland areas a thorough evaluation of the waterbody and
the topographic, vegetation and soils condition on the site must be made to
ensure:
               a.   The prevention of soil erosion and other possible pollution
of public waters, both during and after construction;
               b.   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed
from public waters is limited;
               c.   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
               d.   The types, uses and numbers of watercraft that the project
will generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
            9.   A calculation of the amount of impervious surface prior to
development and following the proposed development; and
            10.   Any additional data reasonably required by the Zoning
Administrator, Planning Commission or County Board.
   (C)   Public hearing.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing on
each application for a conditional use permit prior to any final decision by
the County Board. Such public hearings may be continued and additional hearings
may be held.
      (2)   Upon receipt in proper form of the application and other requested
material, the Zoning Administrator shall set the date of the public hearing.
All such hearings shall be held in a location prescribed by the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Notice of the time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town,
municipality or other area concerned, and in the official newspaper of the
county, at least ten days before the hearing.
      (4)   Written notice of the time, place and purpose of the public hearing
shall be sent to the adjacent property owners at least ten days prior to the
hearing. The written notice shall be sent to property owners as follows.
         (a)   In incorporated areas, to all property owners of record within
500 feet of the affected property.
         (b)   In unincorporated areas, owners of record within one-quarter
mile of the affected property, or to the ten properties nearest the property
under consideration, whichever would provide notice to the greatest number of
owners.
         (c)   Written notice shall also be given to the affected board of town
supervisors and the municipal council of any municipality within two miles of
the affected property.
      (5)   The current tax records on file in the office of the County
Assessor shall be deemed sufficient for notification purposes. The failure of
any property owner to receive notification, or defects in the notice, shall not
invalidate the proceedings, if a bona fide attempt to comply with this
subdivision has been made.
      (6)   Written notice shall be given to the affected unincorporated areas,
the affected board of town supervisors, and the municipal council of any
municipality within two miles of the affected property.
      (7)    Written notice shall be given to the respective Department of
Natural Resources Area Hydrologist at least ten days prior to any hearing
dealing with an application for a conditional use permit within a Shoreland
Overlay District.
   (D)   Action and authorization.
      (1)   Following the closing of the public hearing and the formulation of
the Planning Commission’s recommendations, the Zoning Administrator shall
report the findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission to the
County Board at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting.
      (2)   The County Board shall approve, deny or return to the Planning
Commission the conditional use permit application within 60 days of the receipt
of the findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The County Board shall have the option to hold whatever public
hearings it deems advisable, and may request that the applicant demonstrate the
nature and extent of any adverse effects on the environment, as determined by
the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Approval of a conditional use application shall require a simple
majority of County Board members.
      (5)   The applicant for the conditional use permit shall be notified in
writing of the Board’s action by the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)    A copy of any conditional use permit issued within a shoreland
area shall be forwarded to the respective Department of Natural Resources Area
Hydrologist within ten days of the action.
   (E)   Criteria for granting conditional use permits. The Planning Commission
shall not recommend a conditional use permit unless it shall determine the
following:
      (1)   Will the proposed use have an impact (adverse) on the health,
safety and general welfare of the occupants in the surrounding neighborhood?
      (2)   Will the proposed use have an impact (adverse) on traffic
conditions including parking?
      (3)   Are there adequate public utilities, public services, roads and
schools to support the proposed use of the property?
      (4)   Will the proposed use have an effect (adverse) on property values
or future development of land in the surrounding neighborhood?
      (5)   Is the proposed use of the property consistent with the goals and
policies adopted in the Comprehensive Plan?
      (6)   Does the proposed use meet the standards of the zoning ordinance,
including that the use is allowed with a conditional use permit in the
designated zoning district in which it is proposed?
      (7)   Will the proposed use have an effect (adverse) on the environment,
including pollution and including impacts on groundwater, surface water and
surface water runoff, and air quality?
      (8)   Will the proposed use have an effect (adverse) on existing natural,
historic, or scenic views or features in the surrounding neighborhood?
      (9)    Are there other provisions within the Unified Development Code,
state law or federal law that will impact the approval of the conditional use
permit?
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 3.08 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Board of Adjustment shall consider a request for variance
from the terms of this ordinance as will not be contrary to the public
interest, where owing to special conditions a literal enforcement of the
provisions of the ordinance will result in practical difficulties, and so that
the spirit of the ordinance shall be observed and substantial justice done. No
variance may be granted that would allow any use that is not allowed in the
zoning district in which the subject property is located.
   (B)   Application. An applicant shall submit an application for a variance
on forms provided by the Planning Department to the Zoning Administrator. A
survey of the subject property done by a licensed surveyor shall be required
with the application. The application shall be accompanied by the full
application fee as established in this ordinance.
   (C)   Conditions on variances. The Board of Adjustment may impose such
conditions, including restrictions and safeguards, upon the property benefitted
by the variance as considered necessary to prevent or minimize adverse effects
upon other property in the vicinity or upon public facilities and services.
Such conditions shall be expressly set forth in the grant of variance.
Violation of such conditions shall be a violation of this ordinance.
   (D)   Relief less than requested. A variance less than or different from the
requested may be granted when the record supports the applicant’s right to some
relief, but not to the relief requested.
   (E)   Criteria for granting variances. 
      (1)   Variances shall only be permitted when the applicant establishes
that they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of the official
control and when the variances are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance establishes that
there are practical difficulties complying with the official control. As used
in connection with a decision as to whether to grant a variance, practical
difficulties means that the property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulty.
      (2)   In order to grant a variance, the Board of Adjustment must find
that all of the following criteria are met:
         (a)   Is the variance request in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of the official controls and consistent with the county’s Comprehensive
Plan?
         (b)   Is the property owner proposing to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by an official control?
         (c)   Is the need for the variance due to circumstances unique to the
property and not created by the current or prior property owners?
         (d)   Will the issuance of the variance maintain the essential
character of the locality?
         (e)   Does the need for the variance involve more than economic
considerations?
   (F)   Variance procedure.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator, on the appropriate form, with the required fees. The application
shall:
         (a)   Include a legal description of the property;
         (b)   Include a survey both in paper and electronic form (AutoCAD)
completed by a Licensed surveyor in the state that is an accurate plot plan
showing the locale, size, shape, height, and use of all existing buildings and
all proposed buildings, and the width and depth of existing or proposed yards
of the property involved;
         (c)   Include the signature of the lessee and the owner of the
affected property;
         (d)   Include photographs of the property involved to illustrate the
condition of the property; and
         (e)   State the grounds for the request of a variance.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall hold at least one public hearing on
each application for a variance prior to its final decision. Such public
hearing may be continued and additional hearings may be held.
      (3)   The date of the public hearing shall be set by the Zoning
Administrator upon receipt, in proper form, of the application and other
requested material.
      (4)   Notice of the time, place and purpose of the public hearing shall
be given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town,
municipality, or other area concerned, and in the official newspaper of the
county, at least ten days before the hearing. Written notice shall also be
given to the affected board of town supervisors and the municipal council of
any municipality within two miles of the affected property.
      (5)   The written notice of the time, place and purpose of the public
hearing shall be sent to the adjacent property owners at least ten days prior
to the hearing. The written notice shall be sent to all property owners of
record within 500 feet of the affected property.
      (6)   The current tax records on file in the office of the County
Assessor shall be deemed sufficient for notification purposes. The failure of
any property owner to receive notification, or defects in the notice, shall not
invalidate the proceedings, if a bona fide attempt to comply with this
subdivision has been made.
      (7)    Written notice shall be sent to the respective Department of
Natural Resources Area Hydrologist at least ten days prior to any hearing
dealing with an application for a variance within a Shoreland Overlay District.
      (8)   The applicant for a variance, or a representative thereof, must
appear before the Board of Adjustment in order to answer questions concerning
the requested variance.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment and county staff shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant concerning
operational factors or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the
expense of the applicant concerning operational performance conditions in
relation to all pertinent sections of this ordinance.
         (b)   The applicant for a variance which, in the opinion of the Board
of Adjustment, may result in a material adverse affect on the environment may
be required by the Board to demonstrate the nature and extent of the affect.
      (9)   The applicant must make a case for variance criteria listed above
and the Board shall consider the criteria when recommending approval of the
variance.
      (10)   The Board of Adjustment shall reach its decision not later than 30
days from the date of the public hearing.
      (11)   Approval of an application for a variance shall require a simple
majority of Board of Adjustment members.
      (12)   The Board shall put its decision in writing and show the reasons
for its decision to either grant or deny the variance, and the conditions
imposed on the variance. The applicant for the variance shall be notified in
writing of the Board of Adjustment’s action by the Zoning Administrator.
      (13)   Right to appeal to district court: any aggrieved person or
persons, or any department, board or commission of the jurisdiction or of the
state shall have the right to make an appeal to the District Court on questions
of law and fact. Such appeal shall be made within 30 days after the receipt of
the notice of the Board’s decision.
   (G)   Additional considerations in situations involving after-the-fact
variances. In circumstances where a variance is sought to an official control
after the work has already been begun or completed in violation of one or more
official controls, additional criteria may, in the discretion of the Board of
Adjustment, be considered in determining whether to grant or deny the variance
request. If the Board of Adjustment finds that all of the criteria set forth in
subsection (E)(2)(a) through (e) are met, then the following additional
criteria may be considered and weighed by the Board of Adjustment in
determining whether to grant or deny the request:
      (1)   Why did the applicant fail to obtain the required permit or comply
with the applicable official control before commencing work? Was there any
attempt to comply with the applicable official controls?
      (2)   Did the applicant make a substantial investment in the property
before learning of the failure to comply with the applicable official controls?
      (3)   Did the applicant complete the work before being informed of the
violation of applicable official controls?
      (4)   Are there similar structures in the area?
      (5)   Based on all of the facts, does it appear to the Board of
Adjustment that the applicant acted in good faith?
      (6)   Would the benefit to the county appear to be outweighed by the
detriment the applicant would suffer if forced to remove the structure?
   (H)   Administrative appeals; appeal procedure for decisions of the
administrative office.
      (1)   An appeal to the Board of Adjustment may be taken by any aggrieved
person or by any officer, department, board or bureau of a town, municipality,
county or state affected by any decision of the administrative office.
      (2)   A notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof shall be filed
with the Zoning Administrator, within 30 calendar days after the date of the
officer’s decision. The required filing fee, as determined by the County Board,
shall be filed with the notice of appeal.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator, after consulting with the Chairperson of
the Board of Adjustment, shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the
appeal by the Board of Adjustment and shall give written notice thereof to the
appellant and the officer from whom the appeal is taken at least ten days prior
to the hearing.
      (4)   Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall also be
given by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the town,
municipality or other area concerned, and in the official newspaper of the
county, at least ten days before the hearing.
      (5)   The officer from whom the appeal is taken shall transmit to the
Board of Adjustment all papers constituting the record upon which the action
appealed from was taken.
      (6)   Any interested party may appear in person or by agent or by
attorney at the hearing.
      (7)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Board of Adjustment to whom the appeal is taken
certifies that by reason of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would
cause imminent peril to life or property.
      (8)   The Board of Adjustment may reverse or affirm wholly or partly, or
may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and
to that end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was
taken and may direct the issuance of a permit.
      (9)   The reasons for the Board’s decision shall be stated in writing and
shall be sent to the appellant and the officer from whom the appeal is taken.
   (I)   Fees. The application fee for the consideration of an appeal or a
variance shall be as established by the County Board by resolution. Any outside
costs for consulting services to aid the Board of Adjustment in making its
decision on the variance application shall be paid by the applicant. Such fee
shall be as determined by the County Board.
   (J)   Lapse of variance by non-use.
      (1)   A variance shall become void one year after its issuance by the
Board of Adjustment unless it has been used or a petition for an extension of
the one-year time limit has been granted.
      (2)   A violation of any condition set forth in granting a variance shall
be a violation of this ordinance and automatically terminates the variance.
   (K)   Recording.
      (1)   A certified copy of any order issued by the Board of Adjustment
acting upon an appeal from an order, requirement, decision or determination by
an administrative official, or a request for a variance shall be filed by the
Zoning Administrator with the County Recorder. The order issued by the Board of
Adjustment shall include the legal description of the property involved, the
owner’s name, and any conditions imposed by the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)    A copy of any variance granted for a property located within a
Shoreland Overlay District shall be sent to the respective Department of
Natural Resources Area Hydrologist within ten days of the final decision.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 107, passed 11-6-2012; Ord. 123, passed 9-20-
2016; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 3.09 SPECIAL EVENTS PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate events where an
assemblage of large numbers of people, in excess of those normally needing the
health, sanitary, fire, police, transportation and utility services regularly
provided in the county, in order that the health, safety and welfare of all
person, residents and visitors alike, may be protected.
   (B)   Permit required. No person shall permit, maintain promote, conduct,
advertise, act as entrepreneur, undertake, organize, manage or sell or give
tickets to a special event for an assemblage of 1,000 or more people which
contains or can reasonably be expected to continue for eight or more
consecutive hours, whether on public or private property, unless a permit to
hold the special event has first been issued by the Board, application for
which must be made at least 30 days in advance of the special event. When
applying for a special event permit, the permit holder must submit certified
copies of other necessary state permits and/or permits to support his or her
application. A permit to hold a special event issued to one person shall permit
any person to engage in any lawful activity in connection with the holding of
the permitted special event.
   (C)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   A separate permit shall be required for each day and each location
in which 1,000 people shall assemble for such special event or can reasonably
be anticipated to assemble. The fee for each permit shall be shall be
determined by the County Board.
      (2)   A permit shall permit the special event to only the maximum number
of people stated in the permit. The permit holder shall not sell tickets to nor
permit to exhibit at the permitted locations more than the maximum permissible
number of people.
      (3)   The requirement for a special event permit shall not apply to any
regularly established, permanent place of worship, stadium, athletic field,
arena, auditorium, coliseum, or other similar permanently established place of
assembly for special events which do not exceed by more than 250 people the
maximum seating capacity of the structure where the special event is held.
      (4)   The requirement for a special event permit shall not apply to
government sponsored fairs held on regularly established fairgrounds and not to
special events required to be permitted by other state laws and county
regulations.
   (D)   Conditions for issuing permit. Before the county issues a special
event permit, the applicant shall first:
      (1)   Determine the maximum number of people which will be assembled or
admitted to the location of the special event, provided that the maximum number
shall not exceed the minimum number which can reasonably assemble at the
location of the special event in consideration of the nature of the special
event, and provided that where the special event is to continue overnight, the
maximum number shall not be more than is allowed to sleep within the boundaries
of the exhibit location by county health ordinances, or regulations of the
State Department of Health; and
      (2)   At the time the application is submitted, the permit holder will
provide a plan including the provisions herein for operation of the assembly.
Ten days prior to the start of the special event, county staff will inspect to
determine whether the requirements of these provisions have been met:
         (a)   If required by the Board, a fence or barrier (sufficient to
prevent ingress/exit except at established gates) completely enclosing the
proposed location of sufficient height and strength to prevent people in excess
of the maximum permissible number from gaining access to the special event
grounds, which shall have sufficient entrances and exits to allow easy movement
into and out of the special event grounds and provide traffic control onto
public roads;
         (b)   Potable water, meeting all federal and state requirements for
sanitary quality, sufficient to provide drinking water for the maximum number
of people to be assembled at the rate of at least one gallon per person per
day;
         (c)   Separate enclosed toilets for males and females, meeting all
state and local specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds,
sufficient to provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be
assembled, in accordance with the State Department of Health regulations and
standards;
         (d)   A sanitary method of holding, collecting and disposing of solid
waste, in compliance with state and local laws and regulations, sufficient to
dispose of the solid waste production of the maximum number of people to be
assembled;
         (e)   If required by the Board, physicians and nurses permitted to
practice in the state sufficient to provide the average medical care enjoyed by
residents of the state for the maximum number of people to be assembled at the
rate of at least one physician and nurse for every 5,000 people, together with
an enclosed covered structure where treatment may be rendered, containing
separately enclosed treatment rooms for each physician, and at least two
emergency ambulances with attendants for each 5,000 people;
         (f)   If the special event is to continue during hours of darkness,
illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the special event at the
rate of at least five footcandles, but not to shine unreasonably beyond the
boundaries of the enclosed location of the special event;
         (g)    If the special event is to continue overnight, there shall be
camping facilities in compliance with all state requirements, sufficient to
provide camping accommodations for the maximum number of people assembled. A
valid license issued annually by the Le Sueur-Waseca Community Health Board
through the Waseca County Public Health Department and as provided for in M.S.
Chapter 327, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be obtained prior to
any overnight camping;
         (h)   If required by the Board, a security plan which will meet the
requirements of local authorities; regularly employed off-duty state law
enforcement officers or protective agents permitted in the state, sufficient to
provide adequate security for the maximum number of people to be assembled; at
least one security guard for every 100 people will be provided for the first
1,000 people to assemble; for special events of more than 1,000 people,
additional security guards will be provided at the rate of one for each 250
people or major fraction thereof;
         (i)   If required by the Board, fire protection shall be provided by
the permit holder which shall be sufficient to meet all applicable state and
laws and local regulations which are in effect, or may be set forth by the
Board; and sufficient emergency personnel to efficiently operate the required
equipment will be provided by the permit holder, also;
         (j)   Administrative control center with telephones where county staff
can contact the permit holder and law enforcement personnel inside the special
event area; and
         (k)   A bond, filed with the County Clerk or County Auditor, in an
amount to be determined by the County Board.
   (E)   Application.
      (1)   Application for a permit to hold an actual or anticipated special
event to an assembly of 1,000 persons shall be made in writing to the governing
body of this political subdivision at least 30 days in advance of such special
event.
      (2)   The application shall contain and disclose:
         (a)   The name, date of birth, fingerprints, residence and mailing
address of the applicant and in the case of a corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation together with the name date of birth and mailing
address of each person holding 10% or more of the stock of the corporation;
         (b)   The address and legal description of all property upon which the
special event is to be held, together with the name, residence and mailing
address if the record owner(s) of all such property;
         (c)   Proof of ownership of all property upon which the special event
is to be held or a signed statement by the record owner(s) of all such property
that the applicant has permission to use such property for an assembly of 1,000
or more persons;
         (d)   The nature or purpose of the special event;
         (e)   The total number of days and/or hours during which the special
event is to last;
         (f)   The maximum number of persons which the applicant shall permit
to assemble at the special event at any time, not to exceed the maximum number
which can reasonably assemble at the location of the special event, in
consideration of the nature of the special event, or the maximum number of
persons to sleep within the boundaries of the location of the special event;
         (g)   The maximum number of tickets to be sold, if any;
         (h)   The plans of the applicant to limit the maximum number of people
permitted to assemble;
         (i)   The plans for fencing the location of the special event and the
gates contained in such fence;
         (j)   The plans for supplying potable water including the source,
amount available and location of outlets;
         (k)   The plans for providing toilet and lavatory facilities including
the source, number, and location, type and means of disposing of waste
deposited;
         (l)   The plans for holding, collection and disposing of solid waste
material;
         (m)   The plans to provide for medical facilities including the
location and location of a medical structure, the names and addresses and hours
of availability of physicians and nurses, and provisions for emergency
ambulance service;
         (n)   The plans, if any, to illuminate the location of the assembly
including the source and amount of power and the location of lights;
         (o)   The plans for parking vehicles including size and location of
lots, points of highway access and interior roads including routes between
highway access and parking lots;
         (p)    The plans for camping facilities, if any, including facilities
available and their location must be forwarded to public health for approval;
         (q)   The plans for security including the number of guards, their
employment and their names, addresses, credentials and hours of availability;
         (r)   The plans for fire protection as may be required by subsection
(D)(2)(i) above;
         (s)   The plans for sound control and sound amplification, if any,
including number, location and power of amplifiers and speakers;
         (t)   The plans for food concessions and concessioners who will be
allowed to operate on the grounds including the names and addresses of all
concessioners and their permit or permit numbers. Plans must be forwarded to
public health for approval;
         (u)   The plans for area traffic control for egress from and exit onto
public roads or highways; and
         (v)   The application shall include the bond required in §
3.09(D)(2)(k), and the permit fee.
   (F)   Issuance. The application for a permit shall be processed within 20
days of receipt and shall be issued if all conditions are complied with.
   (G)   Revocation. The permit may be revoked by the County Board or by county
law enforcement, if any of the conditions necessary for the issuing of or
contained in the permit are not complied with, or if any condition previously
met ceases to be complied with.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 123, passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
ARTICLE 4: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
4.01   General provisions
   
4.02   General regulations for structures
   
4.03   Accessory dwelling unit (ADU)
   
4.04   Manufactured homes
   
4.05   Temporary structures
   
4.06   Temporary storage of equipment
   
4.07   Lot and yard controls
   
4.08   Height regulations
   
4.09   Yard regulations
   
4.10   Fences and freestanding walls
   
4.11   Outdoor storage
   
4.12   Sign regulations
   
4.13   Extraction of material and minerals, open pits and impounding of waters
§ 4.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Intent. The purpose of this section is to provide regulations of
general applicability for property in unincorporated areas of the county, to
promote the orderly development of use of land, to protect the natural
environment, minimize conflicts among land uses and protect the public health,
safety and welfare. General regulations must be met before a land use permit is
issued.
   (B)   Applicability. The regulations set forth in this article apply to all
structures and all land uses, except as otherwise provided in this ordinance.
The provisions of this article shall be applied to all zoning districts, and
shall be in addition to the requirements in any specific zoning district. A
permit shall not be issued unless provisions are made for meeting the
applicable general regulations in this ordinance and other county ordinances.
   (C)   Zoning permit required.
      (1)   Zoning permits are required for the following:
         (a)   Any change in use;
         (b)   New, altered, moved or replaced structures;
         (c)   Signs;
         (d)   Shoreland alterations not exempted in §
6.22;
         (e)    Permits shall only be approved if they comply with this
ordinance, where applicable; and
         (f)   Land alteration as defined in §
4.13.
      (2)   It shall also be the responsibility of the applicant to adhere to
local, state and federal rules and to obtain all required permits.
      (3)   Refer to §
3.02(A)(2) for additional requirements on zoning permits.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 4.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Number of principal structures permitted on a lot or parcel. No more
than one principal structure may be placed on a residential lot or parcel. More
than one industrial, commercial, multiple- dwelling or institutional building
or use may be established upon a single lot or tract in a district allowing
these uses, provided that the yards and open space required around the
boundaries of the lot or tract shall be met.
   (B)   Human habitation of structures.
      (1)   No cellar, garage, tent, trailer, basement with unfinished
structure above, or accessory building shall at anytime be used as a dwelling
unit.
      (2)   The basement portion of a finished home may be used for normal
eating, living, and sleeping purposes provided it is properly damp-proofed, has
suitable fire protection and exits, and is approved by the Zoning
Administrator. A basement may be occupied with unfinished structure above
during the time the owner or occupant is actively and regularly engaged in
finishing the unfinished structure, but in no case longer than three years
without a hearing before the Planning Commission and approval of a specified
extension in time by the County Board. No residential accessory building shall
be used for human habitation unless built and licensed as an accessory dwelling
unit.
   (C)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures located in any residential
or agricultural zoning district, shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Attached. Attached accessory buildings shall meet all the
requirements of this ordinance which apply to the principal structure to which
they are attached. An accessory building that is attached to the principal
building shall be made structurally a part of the principal building and shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of this ordinance applicable to
the principal building.
      (2)   Detached. Detached accessory structures shall meet all of the
following requirements.
         (a)   General.
            1.   Setback from principal building. A detached accessory building
shall be located at least five feet from the principal building and shall meet
all setback requirements of its zoning district.
            2.   The accessory structure shall only be erected in a rear yard,
except that detached garages may be allowed in the front yard provided the
detached garage maintains the front yard, side yard and corner side yard
setbacks for the zoning district where the structure is located.
            3.   Detached accessory buildings located in any zoning district
except residential or agricultural, shall meet all the requirements of this
ordinance which apply to principal structures in such zoning district.
         (b)   Size limits. A detached accessory building which is accessory to
a residential use shall be limited in size based on lot size and lot coverage.
         (c)   Lots of up to one acre. Not to exceed 1,500 square feet,
provided that maximum impervious coverage requirements are met.
         (d)   Lots of more than one acre. Will be limited by maximum
impervious coverage requirements. Impervious coverage includes the footprints
of all principal and accessory buildings, paved areas and other impervious
surfaces on the property.
         (e)   Height. The height of an accessory building shall not exceed the
height of the principal building.
         (f)   Permit exception. Outside the Shoreland Overlay District, a
zoning permit shall not be required for any accessory building of 100 square
feet or less, but applicable setbacks shall be met.
         (g)   Use of building. Residential accessory buildings shall be used
for storage of personal vehicles and other residential accessory uses. No
commercial operation or commercial-related storage shall be allowed unless
otherwise allowed with the operation of a home occupation.
         (h)   Prohibited within rights-of-way. Accessory structures, including
gate houses and gates, shall be prohibited within any road right-of-way.
   (D)   Mobile structures. Mobile or movable structures shall not be used as
an accessory structure.
   (E)   Satellite dishes. Satellite dishes not exceeding three feet in
diameter may be allowed in the front yard in any zoning district. Satellite
dishes larger than three feet in diameter shall be located in a side or rear
yard and shall maintain required setbacks or be attached to the principal
structure.
   (F)   Timing of construction. In any residential district, no accessory
building shall be constructed or developed on a lot prior to the construction
of the principal building. In situations where accessory structures are
constructed prior to the principal structure, the accessory structure must meet
the principal structure setback requirement in the underlying zoning district.
   (G)   Separation distance requirements for structures from feedlots. All
structures shall comply with the required setbacks from feedlots found in §
6.06.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 147, passed 8-3-2021; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
§ 4.03 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU).
   (A)   Existing single-family unit required. The lot proposed for an ADU must
already contain an existing single-family unit. A maximum of one ADU may be
allowed per parcel. An ADU shall not be allowed where it is not permitted
within the zoning district or where it may violate a subdivision’s private
covenants or restrictions.
   (B)   Ownership. The owner of the property shall reside in either the
accessory or the principal dwelling unit.
   (C)   Minimum lot size for detached ADUs. An ADU may be developed on a lot
meeting the minimum size for single-family dwellings within the respective
zoning district, except that a detached accessory unit may be developed only if
the lot size is at least 150% of the minimum single-family lot size, provided
that the individual sewage treatment system requirements of this ordinance can
be met.
   (D)   Minimum dwelling size requirements. An ADU shall not exceed 40% of the
living area of the principal dwelling unit. An ADU shall not be smaller than
300 square feet in area or larger than 800 square feet, nor shall it contain
more than two bedrooms.
      (1)   An exception may be made for disabled persons of child-bearing age,
allowing a maximum size of 1,000 square feet and up to three bedrooms without a
variance.
      (2)   A garage or portion of a garage that is used for the storage of
automobiles and personal items shall not be counted as part of the living area
and shall not contain any habitable space. For an ADU located above a garage,
only the habitable portion shall count towards size requirements.
   (E)   Facilities. An ADU shall not contain more than two bathrooms, one
kitchen (with or without eating area), one utility room and one living room or
combination living/dining room.
   (F)   Screening and orientation. The orientation of the proposed ADU shall,
to the maximum extent practical, maintain the privacy of residents of adjoining
dwellings, as determined by the presence or design of landscape screening,
fencing and window and door placement.
   (G)   Location on lot. A detached ADU must be located in the side or rear
yard of the principal dwelling and separated by at least 20 feet but not more
than 150 feet from the principal dwelling. The ADU shall be separated by at
least 20 feet from all other structures on the subject property.
   (H)   Setbacks. The ADU shall meet or exceed the front, side and rear yard
setbacks for principal structures of the applicable zoning district.
   (I)   Driveway. A detached ADU shall be served by the same driveway that
serves the principal single-family dwelling, except when the ADU is accessed
more conveniently from a different road, street or alley (i.e., if located on a
double frontage lot or close to a side street or alley).
   (J)   Parking area. Two parking spaces shall be required for each ADU.
   (K)   Further subdivision prohibited. A detached ADU shall not be subdivided
or otherwise segregated in ownership from the principal dwelling unit. The ADU
shall not be sold, but may be rented.
   (L)   Deed restriction. Before securing approval for construction of an ADU,
the owner of the property shall record against the deed, a deed restriction
running in favor of the municipality limiting ownership of either the principal
dwelling unit or the ADU to the owner of the property or to a common interest
community.
   (M)   Maximum number of residents. The number of occupants of the ADU shall
not exceed three, with the exception of persons with limited intellectual or
physical abilities of child-bearing use. In this case, maximum occupants shall
be five and shall be lineal family.
   (N)   Elimination/expiration. Elimination of an ADU may be accomplished by
the owner recording a certificate with the County Recorder stating that the
accessory dwelling no longer exists on the property.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.04 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   All manufactured homes hereafter established shall be located in an
approved manufactured home park except as provided in this ordinance.
      (2)   All manufactured homes hereafter established and which are located
independently as provided in this ordinance shall conform to the density, area
and setback requirements of the zoning district in which they are located.
      (3)   All manufactured homes, whether in a manufactured home park or
located independently as provided in this ordinance, shall also meet the
following requirements.
         (a)   If not secured to a permanent foundation, the area between the
bottom of the manufactured home and the ground shall be skirted with a
fireproof material harmonious with the appearance of the home and provide
access for inspection and maintenance. Plywood, hardboard, cardboard or baled
hay or straw shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Each manufactured home shall be adequately secured by
utilization of tie downs or other acceptable measures.
         (c)   Steps and stoops shall be of acceptable wood, metal or concrete
construction.
         (d)   Storm entries and porches must be of durable materials
harmonious in appearance with the mobile home.
         (e)   All manufactured homes shall be equipped with smoke and fire
detectors, as approved by the State Fire Marshal or local fire officials.
         (f)   Each manufactured home shall be provided with approved sanitary
and water facilities for occupants use 24 hours each day.
   (B)   Codes, permits and licenses.
      (1)   All manufactured homes shall be subject to and meet the
construction, plumbing, electrical and mechanical standards as prescribed by
the state, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the American
National Standards Institute identified as NFPA 501B and any revision thereto
and shall be certified to these standards by a seal affixed to the manufactured
home.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or alter any
structure associated with and including a manufactured home without first
obtaining a valid zoning permit from the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   All manufactured home parks and recreational camping areas
hereafter established or expanded shall obtain a conditional use permit as
regulated in the respective zoning district and shall meet the requirements of
this section.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to operate either a manufactured
home park or a recreational camping area within the county unless they have
obtained a valid license issued annually by the Le Sueur-Waseca Community
Health Board as provided for in M.S. Chapter 327, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (5)   Whenever an individual wishes to relocate a manufactured home
within the county, he or she shall be required to obtain a zoning permit for
the new location and will be subject to the provisions of this ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.05 TEMPORARY STRUCTURES.
   (A)   The following temporary structures shall be permitted in all zoning
districts, except as otherwise specified below, provided such temporary use or
structure shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district in which it
is located and all other applicable regulations of this ordinance.
   (B)   Temporary structures shall meet the following general development
standards.
      (1)   For construction work. Temporary structures or mobile homes, that
are used solely for office or storage purposes in conjunction with construction
work only, may be permitted in any zoning district during the period that the
construction work is in progress, but such temporary structures shall be
removed upon completion of the construction work.
      (2)   For sale of property. Temporary offices, both incidental and
necessary for the sale or rental of real property within an approved
residential subdivision or residential development in which such offices are
located, may be permitted in any zoning district until such time as the real
property has been sold or rented, provided the office is located within a model
home.
      (3)   A temporary structure associated with an allowed temporary use. Any
temporary structure associated with a temporary use allowed under §
6.02 need not comply with district yard requirements but shall be set back from
all lot lines and otherwise be located on the property as may be required by
the county to reduce any potential safety hazards to vehicles and pedestrian
traffic on adjacent public ways, and to also reduce any adverse effects on
adjacent properties. No permanent structures shall be erected except in
conformance with the regulations of the zoning district within which the
property is located.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.06 TEMPORARY STORAGE OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator may grant an interim use permit for temporary
storage of equipment in any zoning district in conjunction with highway
construction or a similar public purpose.
   (B)   Such operation may include a bituminous plant, ready mix plant,
contractor’s yard and similar uses.
      (1)   The use shall comply with all applicable federal, state and county
rules, regulations and ordinances.
      (2)   All equipment and temporary buildings shall meet the setbacks of
the underlying zoning district.
      (3)   The interim use permit shall contain a commencement and a
termination date and any other conditions deemed necessary and proper to
protect the surrounding properties.
      (4)   Any excavation of materials shall meet the standards of §
5.04 (Stormwater Management and Sediment and Erosion Control), where
applicable.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.07 LOT AND YARD CONTROLS.
   All lots, structures and uses shall conform to the lot and yard controls
specified below.
   (A)   Area regulations. No lot shall be reduced in size below the minimum
required for the proposed use in the zoning district where the lot is located.
   (B)   Measurement of lot width. Lot width for the purpose of complying with
minimum lot width requirements shall be measured at the front building setback
line.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.08 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Maximum height. Maximum height limitations found in §
6.03 must be adhered to for each zoning district, except for Federal
Aeronautics Administration regulations and the structures and architectural
ornaments listed in subsections (B) and (C) below.
   (B)   Maximum height may be exceeded. Height limitations set forth in this
ordinance may be increased by 100% when applied to the following:
      (1)   Monument;
      (2)   Flag poles; and
      (3)   Cooling towers.
   (C)   Exceptions to height limitations. Height limitations do not apply to
the following structures or architectural ornaments, and if these structures or
architectural ornaments exceed the height limitation of the district in which
it is located, a conditional use permit must be obtained after obtaining a
letter of clearance from the Federal Aeronautics Administration and the Airport
Commission for any airport located within ten miles of the structure proposed
to exceed the height limitation:
      (1)   Church spires, belfries or domes which do not contain usable space;
      (2)   Water towers;
      (3)   Chimneys or smokestacks;
      (4)   Radio, communication or television transmitting towers;
      (5)   Grain elevators; and
      (6)   Wind turbines.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.09 YARD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Front yard requirements. 
      (1)   In any zoning district, there shall be a minimum front yard
required as stated in the yard requirements for that particular district.
      (2)   The minimum front yard depth as specified in any district shall be
measured from the established property line or proposed right-of-way line of
the street on which the lot fronts.
   (B)   Exceptions to front yard requirements.
      (1)   Measurements shall be taken from the nearest point of the wall of a
building to the lot line in question, subject to the following qualifications.
         (a)   Cornices, canopies or eaves may extend into the required front
yard a distance not exceeding four feet, six inches.
         (b)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance
not exceeding four feet, six inches.
         (c)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required
front yard to a distance not exceeding six feet, if the landing place or porch
has its floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open
railing, no higher than three feet, six inches may be placed around such place.
         (d)   A ramp for access to the dwelling by handicapped individuals.
      (2)   When a parcel is accessed from a recorded easement over an adjacent
parcel that exceeds the length of the front yard setback within the zoning
district and when the parcel has no direct access to a public or private right-
of-way, the required front yard setback may be adjusted to equal the rear yard
setback required in the zoning district.
   (C)   Exceptions to side and rear yard requirements. The above-enumerated
architectural features may also extend into any side or rear yard to the same
extent, except that no porch, terrace or outside stairway shall project into
the required side yard distance.
   (D)   Additional yard requirements.
      (1)   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy required front, side or rear
yards when in compliance with height standards in §
4.10.
      (2)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided
on both streets.
      (3)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth which may cause danger to
traffic on a road or public roadway by obscuring the view.
      (4)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall be unobstructed above
a height of three feet in a triangular area, two sides of which are the lines
running along the shoulder road lines between the road intersection and a point
50 feet from the intersection, and the third side of which is the line between
the latter two points.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 120, passed 10-7-2014)
§ 4.10 FENCES AND FREESTANDING WALLS.
   On any parcel or lot, fences and freestanding walls are permitted accessory
structures provided such fences and walls meet all of the requirements in the
following list.
   (A)   Setback. Setback requirements shall not apply to fences and
freestanding walls.
   (B)   Measurement. Height, for the purpose of meeting the requirements of
this subsection (B), shall be measured from the ground surface to the highest
point of the fence.
   (C)   General height standards.
      (1)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any fence
or wall which may cause danger to traffic on a road or public roadway by
obscuring the view.
      (2)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not be obstructed by
a fence or wall above a height of three feet in a triangular area, two sides of
which are the lines running along the shoulder road lines between the road
intersection and a point 50 feet from the intersection, and the third side of
which is the line between the latter two points.
   (D)   Specific height standards. Fences and freestanding walls shall conform
to the following height limitations:
      (1)   In A-1 and LR Districts:
         (a)   Within a side or rear yard, eight feet in height at any point;
and
         (b)   Within a front yard, four and one-half feet in height at any
point.
      (2)   In the VMX and UE Districts:
         (a)   Within a side or rear yard, six feet in height at any point; and
         (b)   Within a front yard, four and one-half feet in height at any
point.
      (3)   In the HC and I Districts: the height limitations shall be
determined by the approved site plan and safety standards.
   (E)   Retaining walls. 
      (1)   A zoning permit shall be required for retaining walls that are
greater than six feet in height.
      (2)   Height of retaining walls for the purpose of meeting the
requirements of this subsection (E) shall be measured from the lowest grade
adjacent to any point of the wall.
      (3)   Retaining walls can include, but are not limited to, structures of
timbers, boulders, concrete or stone blocks, or other materials.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.11 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   In any residential district, all materials and equipment shall be stored
within a building or structure or fully screened so as not to be visible from
adjoining properties, except for the following:
   (A)   Usable laundry equipment;
   (B)   Recreational equipment;
   (C)   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on the
premises provided it is kept in a neat and orderly manner and does not create a
nuisance to adjoining property;
   (D)   Off-street parking of passenger vehicles and trucks; and
   (E)   Boats and house trailers if stored in the rear yard not less than ten
feet from any property line.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 4.12 SIGN REGULATIONS.
   All signs hereafter erected or maintained, except government signs shall
conform to the provisions of this ordinance.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of these sign regulations is to govern the use,
approval, construction, change, replacement, location, and design of signs on
territory subject to the county’s jurisdiction in order to promote health,
safety, and welfare within the county. The sign regulations are meant to
encourage the effective use of signs for communication; limit hazardous or
distracting signs; ensure and improve pedestrian and traffic safety; protect,
conserve, and enhance property values; and enhance and protect aesthetics and
the county’s visual environment and local character. The sign regulations are
not intended to and do not restrict, limit, or control the content or message
of signs.
   (B)   General provisions. The following regulations shall apply to all signs
hereinafter permitted in all Districts:
      (1)   Signs shall not be permitted within the public right-of-way or
easements, except government signs.
      (2)   Flashing or rotating signs, which resemble emergency vehicles,
shall not be permitted.
      (3)   No sign shall be erected or maintained that purports to be or
resembles an official marker erected by a governmental agency or a government
sign.
      (4)   No sign shall, because of position, shape, color, or design,
interfere in any way with the proper function or purpose of a traffic sign or
signal.
      (5)   No sign shall be erected or maintained which by its design, height,
width, shape, or location obstructs or interferes with a driver’s view of
approaching, merging, or intersecting traffic for a distance not to exceed 500
feet.
      (6)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire
escape, stairway, or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress, or egress
for any building or structure.
      (7)   Signs shall be maintained in good condition. Signs that have become
rotted, unsafe, unsightly, or unreadable shall be repaired or removed by the
owner or lessee of the property upon which the sign stands with notice from the
County Board.
      (8)   The owner, lessee, or manager of any ground sign and the owner of
the land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other
growth cut and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which
a sign is located.
      (9)   Where a sign is illuminated, the source of light shall be external
and not shine upon any part of a dwelling or into any residential district or
any roadway.
      (10)   No sign shall be painted directly on the outside wall of a
building, except in commercial or industrial districts, in which case such
signs shall be governed by the square footage allowed in that district.
      (11)   Signs shall not be painted on fences, rocks, or similar structures
or features, nor shall paper or similar signs be attached directly to a
building wall by an adhesive or similar means.
      (12)   Symbols, statues, sculptures, and integrated architectural
features on buildings may be illuminated by floodlights provided the source of
light is not visible from a public right-of-way or adjacent property.
      (13)   Any sign greater than one-half square foot in surface area shall
be set back at least ten feet from any property line or public right-of-way.
      (14)   No sign shall be permitted within ten feet of any road or highway
right-of-way.
      (15)   No sign shall be permitted within 30 feet from either right-of-way
where highways or roads intersect.
      (16)   The owner of any sign that is otherwise allowed may substitute
non-commercial speech for any other commercial or non-commercial speech without
any additional approval or permitting, notwithstanding any provision to the
contrary.
   (C)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   One temporary sign may be displayed on a parcel during the time the
parcel is under construction or development, which shall not exceed 240 square
feet of surface area and shall be located on the project site. Such sign must
be removed no more than seven days after the completion of the construction or
development.
      (2)   One temporary sign may be displayed on a parcel during the time the
parcel is for sale or available for rent or lease, which shall not exceed 25
square feet per surface. Such sign must be removed no more than seven days
following the sale or leasing of the parcel.
      (3)   One temporary sign may be displayed concurrent with a one-time or
special event for a period of no more than 30 days. Such sign shall not exceed
25 square feet in surface area.
      (4)   Subject to M.S. § 211B.045, as it may be amended from time to time,
or successor statute, signs containing non-commercial speech may be posted
beginning 46 days before a primary election in a general election year until
ten days following the general election.
      (5)   The owner or lessee of the property on which the temporary sign is
displayed is responsible for removal of such sign.
   (D)   Off-site signs.
      (1)   Off-site signs may be erected in Highway Commercial and Industrial
Zoning Districts only, except that off-site signs are prohibited in Shoreland
Overlay and Flood Plain Overlay Districts. Off-site signs are prohibited in all
other zoning districts.
      (2)   The maximum area of an off-site sign face, whether a single sign
face or each face of two back-to-back or V-type signs shall not exceed 700
square feet including border and trim, but excluding base and apron supports
and other structural members. Said maximum size limitation shall apply to each
side of an off-site sign structure. Signs structures placed back-to-back or in
a V-type construction, with no more than two displays, shall be considered one
sign (see diagram 1 of
Figure 4.1).
      (3)   Off-site signs shall not exceed 55 feet in total length and a
maximum height of 35 feet above grade, with a minimum clearance height of 15
feet above grade (see diagram 1 of
Figure 4.1). Off-site signs abutting an elevated state or federal highway may
exceed the maximum height requirement, provided that the top of the sign shall
not exceed 15 feet above the road grade elevation of such elevated four-lane
highway directly adjacent to such property on which the sign is positioned.
      (4)   No off-site sign shall be erected within 1,000 feet of another off-
site sign (see diagram 2 of
Figure 4.1).
      (5)   No off-site sign shall be located closer than 450 feet from the
intersection of any road or highway with another road, highway, or railroad;
except that an off-site sign may be affixed to or located adjacent to a
building at such intersection in such a manner as not to cause any greater
obstruction of vision than that caused by the building itself (see diagram 2 of
Figure 4.1).
      (6)   No off-site sign shall be permitted within ten feet, nor beyond 300
feet, of a road or highway right-of-way (see diagram 3 of
Figure 4.1).
      (7)   No off-site sign shall be erected or maintained within 500 feet of
a church, school, dwelling, historic site, public or rest area, and the
boundary of a residential district or local, state or national park.
      (8)   No off-site sign shall project over a public right-of-way.
      (9)   No off-site sign shall be painted or attached to vehicles where the
vehicle is parked on a property and not intended to be moved.
Figure 4.1 Setback and Location Requirements for Off-Site Signs
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d2a538cd52becde1f1ec76eab022cd4167567d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-278.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d2a538cd52becde1f1ec76eab022cd4167567d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-280.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d2a538cd52becde1f1ec76eab022cd4167567d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-282.jpg]
 
   (E)   Signs on residential property. Signs on residential property in all
zoning districts are subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling shall be allowed. Such sign
shall not exceed two square feet in area per surface and no such sign shall be
so constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
      (2)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling group of six or more units
shall be allowed. Such sign shall not exceed six square feet in area per
surface and no such sign shall be so constructed as to have more than two
surfaces.
      (3)   One on-site or nameplate sign shall be allowed for each residential
subdivision. Such signs shall not exceed 12 square feet in area per surface and
no sign shall have more than two surfaces.
      (4)   One nameplate sign for each home occupation allowed as a permitted
or conditional use under the County Zoning Code shall be allowed. Such sign
shall not exceed two square feet in area per surface and no such sign shall be
so constructed as to have more than two surfaces.
      (5)   One on-site sign for each home occupation allowed as a permitted or
conditional use under the County Zoning Code shall be allowed. Such signs shall
not exceed 12 square feet in area per surface and no sign shall have more than
two surfaces.
      (6)   No sign shall exceed ten feet in height above the average grade
level.
   (F)   On-site signs on non-residential property in residential and mixed-use
districts. Signs on non-residential property in Limited Residential (LR), Urban
Expansion (UE), and Village Mixed Use (VMX) Districts are subject to the
following regulations:
      (1)   One on-site sign, not exceeding 24 square feet in area, shall be
allowed on per lot. Such signs may be illuminated, but not flashing.
      (2)   Additional on-signs may be allowed a lot with a conditional use
permit, subject to the following standards:
         (a)   The total surface area of all on-site signs on a lot shall not
exceed the sum of two square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage or 250 square
feet in surface area, whichever is less. In the case of a lot having more than
one frontage, the frontage designated by the mailing address shall be used.
         (b)   The total number of on-site signs on a lot shall not exceed four
in number, of which not more than two shall be free standing.
      (3)   No sign shall project above the permitted building height for the
zoning district in which it is located.
   (G)   On-site signs on non-residential property in Industrial, Commercial
and Agricultural Zoning Districts. Signs on non-residential property in
Agricultural Protection (A-1), Highway Commercial (HC) and General Industrial
(I) Districts are subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   One on-site sign, not exceeding 200 square feet in the A-
1 Agriculture Protection District and 250 square feet in Commercial and
Industrial Districts, shall be allowed per lot. Such signs may be illuminated,
but not flashing;
      (2)   Signs in the A-1 Agriculture Protection District over 200 square
feet shall only be allowed by conditional use permit;
      (3)   The total surface area of on-site signs on a lot shall not exceed
two times the lineal feet of frontage of the lot or 500 square feet in surface
area, whichever is less. In the case of a lot having more than one frontage,
the frontage designated by the mailing address shall be used.
      (4)   The total number of on-site signs on the zoning lot shall not
exceed three in number and no more than two of those signs may be freestanding.
      (5)   No single sign shall exceed the size referenced in (1) and (2)
above.
      (6)   No sign shall exceed 35 feet in height. No roof sign or sign
attached to a building shall exceed a height of ten feet above the highest
outside wall or parapet of any principal building.
   (H)   Licenses and permit fees.
      (1)   All signs erected, with the exception of nameplate and temporary
signs, shall require a zoning permit. Application for such a permit shall be
accompanied by all necessary information, as set forth on the application form
available from the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   All signs for which a permit is required shall be subject to
inspection by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The zoning permit fee shall be established by resolution of the
County Board.
      (4)   Any official of the county may enter any property or premises to
determine whether the provisions of this ordinance are being obeyed. Such
entrance shall be made during business hours unless an emergency exists.
      (5)   All signs not maintained and kept in good repair shall be subject
to removal, at the owner’s cost, upon direction of the County Board.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 118, passed 8-19-2014; Ord. 129, passed 7-17-
2018; Ord. 131, passed 7-2-2019; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 4.13 EXTRACTION OF MATERIAL AND MINERALS, OPEN PITS AND IMPOUNDING OF WATERS.
   (A)   All excavations, extraction of materials and minerals, open pits and
impounding of waters hereafter established or enlarged shall conform with the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Conditional use permit. Excavations, extraction of materials and
minerals, open pits and impoundment of water shall be permitted only upon the
issuance of a conditional use permit.
      (1)   The applicant for the permit shall furnish such information as:
true name and address, when required, approval by the state to impound waters,
purpose of proposed activity, roads and highways to be used to haul material to
or from the area of activity, and the estimated time when building or removing
will begin and be completed.
      (2)   Exceptions:
         (a)   Excavations ancillary to other construction, of and installation
erected or to be erected, built or placed thereon contemporaneously with or
immediately following such excavation and covering or to cover such excavation
when completed are excepted if a permit has been issued for such construction
or installation;
         (b)   Excavations ancillary to construction of a state, federal,
county or township road is exempted;
         (c)   Excavations not exceeding 50 square feet of surface or two feet
in depth are exempted;
         (d)   Excavations for agricultural purposes are exempted;
         (e)   Wetland creation, restoration and/or construction shall be
exempted if the proposal can satisfy all of the following criteria:
            1.   Wetland creation, restoration and/or construction shall be
under the guidance of the County Soil and Water Conservation District using
specifications and guidelines of the Natural Resource Conservation Service
(NRCS);
            2.   Wetland creation, restoration and/or construction shall not be
constructed closer than 75 feet to the boundary of any adjoining property or
existing road easement; and
            3.   An approved land alteration permit shall be obtained from the
Planning and Zoning Office prior to any excavation, alteration or impoundment.
         (f)   Wetland creation, restoration and/or construction that can not
satisfy the above-listed exception criteria (subsections (B)(2)(e)1., (B)(2)
(e)2. and (B)(2)(e)3. above) will be subject to:
            1.   Conditional use permit;
            2.   Any conditions set forth by the Board for the conditional use
permit; and
            3.   An approved land alteration permit shall be obtained from the
Planning and Zoning Office prior to any excavation, alteration or impoundment.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
ARTICLE 5: GENERAL ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
5.01   Public waters
   
5.02   Subsurface sewage treatment systems
   
5.03   Sanitary provisions
   
5.04   Stormwater management and sediment and erosion control
   
5.05   Buffer Code
§ 5.01 PUBLIC WATERS.
   (A)   The public waters of the county have been classified below consistent
with the criteria found in Minnesota Regulations, Part 6120.3300 and the
protected waters inventory map for the county.
   (B)   The County Shoreland Management Program regulates public waters with
the Shoreland Overlay Zoning District. These waters are shown on the zoning map
and are listed below with their classifications:
      (1)   NE = Natural Environment;
      (2)   RD = Recreational Development; and
      (3)   GD = General Development.
   (C)   (1)   Protected water basins.
PWI ID PWI Name Shoreland Class
PWI ID  PWI Name         Shoreland Class
07-0002 Madison          NE
07-0003 Born             NE
24-0049 Trenton          NE
40-0035 Cherry           NE
81-0003 St. Olaf         RD
81-0005 Mud              NE
81-0010 Senn Marsh       NE
81-0013 Watkins          NE
81-0014 Clear            GD
81-0015 Loon             GD
81-0016 Goose            RD
81-0017 Waseca Marsh     NE
81-0018 Gaiter           NE
81-0022 Rice             NE
81-0023 Knutson          NE
81-0027 Everson          NE
81-0044 Silver           NE
81-0055 Reeds            RD
81-0058 Toners           NE
81-0066 Helena           NE
81-0067 Lily             NE
81-0076 Mott             NE
81-0083 Buffalo          NE
81-0086 Willis Slough    NE
81-0087 Sibert           NE
81-0088 Rice             NE
81-0088 Fish             NE
81-0090 Lilly            NE
81-0091 Unnamed (Willis) NE
91-0092 Hoffman Marsh    NE
81-0095 Elysian          RD
81-0114 Moonan Marsh     NE
 
      (2)   Protected watercourses.
Name Section From Township Range Section To Township Range
Name          Section       From Township Range Section       To Township Range
A.
Agricultural
Rivers
LeSueur River 36            105           22    30            107         24
(LSR)
Big Cobb      34            105           24    31            105         24
River
B. Tributary
Rivers
Unnamed to    25            106           22    35            106         22
LSR
Unnamed to    36            106           22    36            105         22
LSR
Boot Creek    36            105           23    31            106         22
(BC)
Bolt Creek    31            105           22    25            105         23
Unnamed to BC 24            105           23    124           105         23
Unnamed to    11            105           23    35            106         23
LSR
Little
LeSueur River 11            105           22    7             22
(LLSR)
Unnamed to    9             106           22    9             106         22
LLSR
Unnamed to    16            106           22    9             105         22
LLSR
Unnamed to    21            107           23    34            107         23
LSR
Unnamed to    27            107           23    27            107         23
Unnamed
Unnamed to    4             106           23    32            107         23
LSR
Unnamed to    19            107           23    30            107         23
LSR
Unnamed to    32            105           23    34            105         24
BCR
Unnamed to    20            105           24    19            105         24
Tributary
Little Cobb   14            105           24    31            106         24
River (LCR)
Unnamed to    22            105           23    33            106         24
LCR
Bull Run      4             105           23    18            106         24
Creek (BRC)
Iosco (IC)    20 (Basin 60) 108           23    1 (Basin 95)  108         24
Unnamed to IC 27            108           23    17            108         23
Silver Creek  25            108           24    17            108         23
Unnamed to    6 (Basin 89)  108           24    10 (Basin 95) 106         24
Lake Elysian
Unnamed       28 (Basin 95) 108           24    33            108         24
Tributary
Unnamed to CD 16 (Basin 83) 107           24    8             107         24
#6
White Water   25            108           23    3             108         23
Creed (WWC)
Unnamed to    7 (Basin 23)  108           22    11            108         23
WWC
Waterville    20            108           22    4             108         22
Creek
Crane Creek   22            108           22    1             107         22
Unnamed to    9 (Basin 14)  107           22    4 (Basin 22)  107         22
Rice Lake
 
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 5.02 SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this ordinance is to establish minimum
requirements for regulation of subsurface sewage treatment systems (SSTS) for
the treatment and dispersal of sewage within the applicable jurisdiction of the
county to protect public health and safety, groundwater quality, and prevent or
eliminate the development of public nuisances. It is intended to serve the best
interests of the county’s citizens by protecting its health, safety, general
welfare and natural resources.
   (B)   Objectives. The principal objectives of this section shall include the
following:
      (1)   The protection of lakes, rivers and streams, wetlands and
groundwater in the county essential to the promotion of public health, safety,
welfare, socioeconomic growth and development of the county;
      (2)   The regulation of proper SSTS construction, reconstruction, repair
and maintenance to prevent the entry and migration of contaminants, thereby
protecting the degradation of surface water and groundwater quality;
      (3)   The establishment of minimum standards for SSTS placement, design,
construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance to prevent contamination
and, if contamination is discovered, the identification and control of its
consequences and the abatement of its source and migration;
      (4)   The appropriate utilization of privy vaults and other non-water
carried sewage collection and storage facilities; and
      (5)   The provision of technical assistance and education, plan review,
inspections, SSTS surveys and complaint investigations to prevent and control
water-borne diseases, lake degradation, groundwater related hazards and public
nuisance conditions.
   (C)   Authority. This ordinance is adopted pursuant to M.S. §§ 115.55,
145A.01 through 145A.08, and 375.51; or successor statutes, and Minnesota
Rules, Chapter 7080, Chapter 7081, Chapter 7082; or successor rules.
   (D)   Effective date. The provisions set forth in this ordinance shall
become effective on January 21, 2010.
   (E)   Scope. This ordinance regulates the siting, design, installation,
alterations, operation, maintenance, monitoring and management of all SSTS
within the county’s applicable jurisdiction including, but not necessarily
limited to, individual SSTS and cluster or community SSTS, privy vaults,
holding tanks and other non-water carried SSTS. All sewage generated in
unsewered areas of the county shall be treated and dispersed by an approved
SSTS that is sited, designed, installed, operated and maintained in accordance
with the provisions of this ordinance or by a system that has been permitted by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA).
   (F)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of this ordinance shall include all
lands of the county except for incorporated areas that administer an SSTS
program by ordinance within their incorporated jurisdiction, which is at least
as strict as this ordinance and has been approved by the county. The County
Land and Water Resources Department shall keep a current list of local
jurisdictions within the county administering a SSTS program. The county must
permit and inspect SSTS within cities and townships that do not administer an
effective SSTS ordinance.
   (G)   County administration. The County Land and Water Resources Department
shall administer the SSTS program and all provisions of this ordinance. At
appropriate times, the county shall review, revise and update this ordinance as
necessary. The county shall employ or retain under contract qualified and
appropriately licensed professionals to administer and operate the SSTS
program.
   (H)   State. Where a single SSTS or group of SSTS under single ownership
within one-half mile of each other have a design flow greater than 10,000
gallons per day, the owner or owners shall make application for and obtain a
state disposal system permit from MPCA. For any SSTS that has a measured daily
flow for a consecutive seven-day period which equals or exceeds 10,000 gallons
per day, a state disposal system permit is required. SSTS serving
establishments or facilities licensed or otherwise regulated by the state shall
conform to the requirements of this ordinance.
   (I)   Cities and towns. Any jurisdiction within the county that regulates
SSTS must comply with the standards and requirements of this ordinance. The
standards and ordinance of the jurisdiction may be administratively and
technically more restrictive than this ordinance.
   (J)   Validity. The validity of any part of this ordinance shall not be
affected by the invalidity of any other parts of this ordinance where the part
can be given effect irrespective of any invalid part or parts.
   (K)   Liability. Any liability or responsibility shall not be imposed upon
the department or agency or any of its officials, employees or other contract
agent, its employees, agents or servants thereof for damage resulting from the
defective construction, operation or abandonment of any onsite SSTS regulated
under this rule by reason of standards, requirements or inspections authorized
hereunder.
   (L)   Retroactivity.
      (1)   All SSTS. Except as explicitly set forth in § 5.02(L)(2), all
provisions of this ordinance shall apply to any SSTS regardless of the date it
was originally permitted.
      (2)   Existing permits. Unexpired permits which were issued prior to the
effective date shall remain valid under the terms and conditions of the
original permit until the original expiration date or until a change in system
ownership whichever is earlier.
      (3)   SSTS on lots created after January 23, 1996. All lots created after
January 23, 1996 must have a minimum of two soil treatment and dispersal areas
that can support a Type I system as described in Minnesota Rules, Parts
7080.2200 through 7080.2230; or site conditions described in 7081.0270, Subp. 3
through 7.
      (4)   Existing SSTS without permits. Existing SSTS with no permits of
record shall require a permit and be brought into compliance with the
requirements of this ordinance regardless of the date they were originally
constructed.
   (M)   Upgrade, repair, replacement and abandonment.
      (1)   SSTS capacity expansions. Expansion of an existing SSTS must
include any system upgrades that are necessary to bring the entire system into
compliance with the prevailing provisions of this ordinance at the time of the
expansion.
      (2)   Bedroom additions. The owner is allowed five years from the date of
issuance of a bedroom addition permit to upgrade, repair, replace or abandon an
existing system if the following conditions apply.
         (a)   Any time an application for a zoning permit is made for the
addition of a bedroom on the property, or a variance is requested to an
existing system: If a request for an additional bedroom or variance is received
between November 1 and April 30, the county may issue a permit or variance
immediately with the requirement that a compliance inspection be completed by
the following June 1 and a certificate of compliance be submitted by the
property owner by the following September 30. All other requests require a
certificate of compliance prior to issuance of a permit.
         (b)   The SSTS does not comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.1500,
Subp. 4.B.;
         (c)   The SSTS is not determined to be an imminent threat to public
health or safety in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.1500, Subp. 4.A.
      (3)   Failure to protect groundwater. An SSTS that is determined not to
be protective of groundwater in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Part
7080.1500, Subp.4.B shall be upgraded, repaired, replaced or abandoned by the
owner in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance within five years of
receipt of a notice of noncompliance.
      (4)   Imminent threat to public health or safety. An SSTS that is
determined to be an imminent threat to public health or safety in accordance
with Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.1500, Subp.4A shall be upgraded, repaired,
replaced or abandoned by the owner in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance within ten months of receipt of a notice of noncompliance.
      (5)   Abandonment. Any SSTS, or any component thereof, which is no longer
intended to be used, must be abandoned in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Part
7080.2500.
   (N)   SSTS in floodplains. SSTS shall not be located in a floodway and
wherever possible, location within any part of a floodplain should be avoided.
If no option exists to locate a SSTS outside of a floodplain, location within
the flood fringe is allowed if the requirements in Minnesota Rules, Part
7080.2270 and all relevant local requirements are met.
   (O)   Class V injection wells. All owners of new or replacement SSTS that
are considered to be Class V injection wells, as defined in the 40 C.F.R. part
144, are required by the federal government to submit SSTS inventory
information to the Environmental Protection Agency as described in 40 C.F.R.
part 144. Further, owners are required to identify all Class V injection wells
in property transfer disclosures.
   (P)   SSTS practitioner’s license.
      (1)   No person shall engage in site evaluation, inspection, design,
installation, construction, alternation, extension, repair, maintenance or
pumping of SSTS without an appropriate and valid license issued by MPCA in
accordance with Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7083, except as exempted in Part
7083.0700.
      (2)   Pressurized systems, mounds and Type III, IV or V systems shall not
be constructed by anyone other than a licensed installer. All systems, whether
constructed by a property owner or a licensed contractor, shall be inspected in
accordance with this section. A license is not required for an individual who
is constructing a system on land that is owned or leased by the individual and
functions solely as a dwelling or seasonal dwelling for that individual. The
SSTS shall be designed by a licensed business or certified individual. The
individual shall provide to the Land and Water Resources Department a signed
agreement which indemnifies and holds the county harmless from all losses,
damages, costs and charges that may be incurred by the county due to the
failure of the permittee to conform to and comply with the provisions of this
ordinance.
   (Q)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Occupancy or use of a building without a compliant SSTS. It is
unlawful for any person to maintain, occupy or use any building intended for
habitation that disposes of wastewater in a manner that does not comply with
the provisions of this ordinance.
      (2)   Sewage discharge to ground surface or surface water. It is unlawful
for any person to construct, maintain or use any SSTS system regulated under
this ordinance that results in raw or partially treated wastewater seeping to
the ground surface or flowing into any surface water. Any surface discharging
system must be permitted under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System (NPDES) program by the MPCA.
      (3)   Sewage discharge to a well or boring. It is unlawful for any person
to discharge raw or treated wastewater into any well or boring a described in
Minnesota Rules, Part 4725.2050, or any other excavation in the ground that is
not in compliance with this ordinance.
      (4)   Discharge of hazardous or deleterious materials. It is unlawful for
any person to discharge into any SSTS regulated under this ordinance any
hazardous or deleterious material that adversely affects the treatment or
dispersal performance of the system or groundwater quality.
   (R)   Standards adopted by reference. The county hereby adopts by reference
Minnesota Rules, Chapters 7080 and 7081 in their entirety as now constituted
and from time to time amended. This adoption does not supersede the county’s
right or ability to adopt local standards that are in compliance with M.S. §
115.55, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (S)   Amendments to the adopted standards.
      (1)   List of adopted standards. In addition to the SSTS setbacks set
forth in Minnesota Rules, Chapters 7080 and 7081:
         (a)   Operating permits will be issued for Type II holding tanks.
         (b)   When a permanent SSTS easement is placed on an adjacent
property, the side or rear property line setback distance may be reduced or
eliminated between the parcel with a residence or commercial use and the
easement tract. In such SSTS easement situations, the side and rear yard
setbacks shall be applied to the easement area.
      (2)   Determination of hydraulic loading rate and SSTS sizing. Tables IX
and IXa from Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.2150, Subp. 3(E) entitled “Loading
Rates for Determining Bottom Absorption Area for Trenches and Seepage Beds for
Effluent Treatment Level C and Absorption Ratios for Determining Mound
Absorption Areas Using Detail Soil Descriptions” and herein adopted by
reference shall be used to determine the hydraulic loading rate and
infiltration area for all SSTS permitted under this ordinance.
      (3)   Compliance criteria for existing SSTS. SSTS built before April 1,
1996 outside of areas designated as shoreland areas, wellhead protection areas
or SSTS providing sewage treatment for food, beverage or lodging establishments
must have at least two feet of vertical separation between the bottom of the
dispersal system and seasonal saturation or bedrock. SSTS built after March 31,
1996 or SSTS located in a shoreland area, wellhead protection area or serving a
food, beverage or lodging establishment as defined under Minnesota Rules, Part
7080.1100, Subp. 84 shall have a three-foot vertical separation between the
bottom of the dispersal system and the periodically saturated soil and/or
bedrock. Existing systems that have no more than a 15% reduction in this
separation distance (a separation distance no less than 30.6 inches) to account
for settling of sand or soil, normal variation of separation distance
measurements and interpretation of limiting layer characteristics may be
considered compliant under this ordinance. The vertical separation measurement
shall be made outside the area of system influence but in an area of similar
soil in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7080.1500, Subp.4.
      (4)   Holding tanks. Holding tanks shall be installed in accordance with
Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7080.2290. Holding tanks are restricted to the
following:
         (a)   Where it can be documented that there is extremely low flow to
the system which could result in winter freezing;
         (b)   Where there is no other building or system on the property where
sewage could be combined and treated together;
         (c)   Existing lots of record which have no other alternative. When a
holding tanks is permitted, it must be used under the following conditions.
            1.   The owner shall maintain a valid contract with a licensed
SSTS- certified maintainer to pump and haul the holding tank to a permitted
treatment facility. All land application of septage must be done in accordance
with all local, state, and federal rules.
            2.   The holding tank shall be regularly pumped, no less frequently
than bi-weekly or other regular schedule agreed upon with the Land and Water
Resources Department.
            3.   The maintainer shall certify each date the tank is pumped, the
volume of the liquid waste removed, and the treatment facility to which the
waste was discharged, and report to the Land and Water Resources Department
that the holding tank is pumped less frequently than biweekly or other schedule
agreed upon with the Land and Water Resources Department.
            4.   The requirement to maintain a valid contract is waived if the
owner is a farmer who is exempt from licensing under M.S. § 115.56, Subd. 3(b)
(3), as it may be amended from time to time.   
   (T)   Variances.
      (1)   Variance requests. A property owner may request a variance from the
standards as specified in this ordinance pursuant to county policies and
procedures.
      (2)   Affected agency. Variances that pertain to the standards and
requirements of the state found in Minnesota Rules, Chapters 7080 and 7081 must
be approved by the local agency, except those laid out in Minnesota Rules,
Chapter 7082.0300, Subp. 2.
      (3)   Board of Adjustment. The Board of Adjustment shall have the
authority only to consider variances to horizontal setbacks from property
lines, rights-of-way, structures or buildings. Variances shall only be
permitted when they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this
ordinance where there are practical difficulties or particular hardship in
meeting the strict letter of this ordinance.
   (U)   Permit required. It is unlawful for any person to construct, install,
modify, replace or operate a SSTS without the appropriate permit from the
County Planning and Zoning Department. The issuing of any permit, variance or
conditional use under the provisions of this ordinance shall not absolve the
applicant of responsibility to obtain any other required permit.
   (V)   Zoning permit. A zoning permit shall be obtained by the property owner
or an agent of the property owner from the county prior to the installation,
construction, replacement, modification, alteration, repair or capacity
expansion of a SSTS. The purpose of this permit is to ensure that the proposed
construction activity is sited, designed and constructed in accordance with the
provisions of this ordinance by appropriately certified and/or licensed
practitioner(s).
      (1)   Activities requiring a construction permit. A zoning permit is
required for installation of a new SSTS, for replacement of an existing SSTS,
or for any repair or replacement of components that will alter the original
function of the system, change the treatment capacity of the system, change the
location of the system, or otherwise change the original system’s design,
layout or function.
      (2)   Activities not requiring a permit. A zoning permit is not required
for minor repairs or replacements of system components that do not alter the
original function of the system, change the treatment capacity of the system,
change the location of the system or otherwise change the original system’s
design, layout or function.
      (3)   Permit application requirements. 
         (a)   Zoning permit applications shall be made on forms provided by
the County Planning and Zoning Department and signed by the applicant.
Construction designs shall be complete and signed by an appropriately certified
practitioner including the practitioner’s certification number and date of
expiration.
         (b)   The applications shall include the documents listed in
subsections (V)(3)(b)1. through (V)(3)(b)5. below:
            1.   Name, mailing address, telephone number and email address;
            2.   Property identification number and address or other
description of property location;
            3.   Site evaluation report as described in Minnesota Rules, Part
7080.1730. Soil verification must be completed before approval of design;
            4.   Design report as described in Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.2430;
and
            5.   Management Plan as described in Minnesota Rules, Part
7082.0600.
      (4)   Application review and response. 
         (a)   The County Planning and Zoning Department shall refer the permit
to the County Land and Water Resources Department. The County Land and Water
Resources Department shall review a permit application and supporting
documents. Upon satisfaction that the proposed work will conform to the
provisions of this ordinance, the County Land and Water Resources Department
shall issue a written notification that the Planning and Zoning Department may
issue a permit authorizing construction of the SSTS as designed, in the event
the applicant makes a significant change to the approved application, the
applicant must file an amended application detailing the changed conditions for
approval prior to initiating or continuing construction, modification or
operation for approval or denial. The Planning and Zoning Department shall
refer the amended permit to the County Land and Water Resources Department. The
County Land and Water Resources Department shall complete the review of the
amended application. If the permit application is incomplete or does not meet
the requirements of this ordinance the County Land and Water Resources
Department shall advise the County Planning and Zoning office to deny the
application.
         (b)   A notice of denial shall be provided to the applicant by the
County Land and Water Resources Department which must state the reason for the
denial.
            1.   Appeal. The applicant may appeal the County Land and Water
Resources Department’s decision to deny the zoning permit in accordance with
the county’s established policies and appeal procedures.
            2.   Permit expiration. The zoning permit for an SSTS system is
valid for a period of no more than one year from its date of issue.
Satisfactory completion of construction shall be determined by receipt of final
record drawings and a signed certification that the construction or
installation of the system was completed in reasonable conformance with the
approved design documents by a qualified employee of the County Land and Water
Resources Department or a licensed inspection business, which is authorized by
the Land and Water Resources Department and independent of the owner and the
SSTS installer.
            3.   Extensions and renewals. The County Land and Water Resources
Department may authorize the County Planning and Zoning Department to grant an
extension of the zoning permit if the construction has commenced prior to the
original expiration date of the permit. The permit may be extended for a period
of no more than one year.
            4.   Transferability. A zoning permit for an SSTS system may be
transferred to a new owner.
            5.   Suspension or revocation. The Planning and Zoning Department
may suspend or revoke a zoning permit issued under this section for any false
statements, misrepresentations of facts on which the zoning permit was issued,
or if notified by the County Land and Water Resources Department that there
have been unauthorized changes to the system design that alter the original
function of the system, change the treatment capacity of the system, change the
location of the system, or otherwise change the original system’s design,
layout or function. A notice of suspension or revocation and the reasons for
the suspension or revocation shall be conveyed in writing to the permit holder.
If suspended or revoked, installation or modification of a treatment system may
not commence or continue until a new or amended zoning permit is obtained.
            6.   Posting. The zoning permit shall be posted on the property in
such a location and manner so that the permit is visible and available for
inspection until construction is completed and certified.
   (W)   Operating permit.
      (1)   SSTS requiring an operating permit. An operating permit shall be
required of all owners of new Type IV, Type V, MSTS or any other system deemed
by the County Land and Water Resources Department to require operational
oversight. Sewage shall not be discharged to the system until the County Land
and Water Resources Department certifies that the Type IV, V, and MSTS or
holding tank was installed in substantial conformance with the approved plans,
receives the as-built drawings and a valid operating permit has been issued to
the owner.
      (2)   Permit application requirements. Application for an operating
permit shall be made on a form provided by the Planning and Zoning Department,
including:
         (a)   Owner name, mailing address, telephone and email address;
         (b)   Construction permit reference number and date of issue;
         (c)   Final record drawings of the treatment system; and
         (d)   The permit will be forwarded to the County Land and Water
Resources Department for final approval.
      (3)   County Land and Water Resources Department response. The County
Land and Water Resources Department shall review the record drawings, operation
and maintenance manual, management plan, maintenance and servicing contract,
and any other pertinent documents as appropriate for accuracy and completeness.
If any deficiencies are identified, the operating permit shall be denied until
the deficiencies are corrected to the satisfaction of the County Land and Water
Resources Department. If the submitted documents fulfill the requirements, the
County Land and Water Resources Department shall issue the operating permit.
      (4)   Operating permit terms and conditions. The operating permit shall
comply with Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7082.0600, Subp. 2.
   (X)   Permit expiration and renewal.
      (1)   Operating permits shall be valid for the specific term stated on
the permit as determined by the County Land and Water Resources Department.
      (2)   An operating permit must be renewed prior to its expiration. If not
renewed, the system may be required to be removed from service or operated as a
holding tank until the permit is renewed. If not renewed within in 90 calendar
days of the expiration date, the county may require that the system be
abandoned in accordance with § 5.02(M)(5).
      (3)   The County Land and Water Resources Department shall notify the
holder of an operating permit at least 90 calendar days prior to expiration of
the permit. The owner must apply for renewal at least 30 calendar days before
the expiration date.
      (4)   Application shall be made on a form provided by the County Land and
Water Resources Department, including:
         (a)   Applicant name, mailing address and phone number;
         (b)   Reference number of previous owner’s operating permit;
         (c)   Any and all outstanding compliance monitoring reports as
required by the operating permit;
         (d)   Certified treatment system inspection signed and/or sealed by a
certified inspector, maintenance contractor or operator at the discretion of
the County Land and Water Resources Department;
         (e)   Any revisions made to the operation and maintenance permit; and
         (f)   Payment of application review fee as determined by the County
Land and Water Resources Department.
   (Y)   Amendments to existing permits not allowed. The county may not amend
an existing permit to reflect changes in this ordinance until the permit term
has expired and is renewed, unless an amendment is necessary to eliminate an
imminent threat to public health or safety.
   (Z)   Transfers. The operating permit may not be transferred. A new owner
shall apply for an operating permit in accordance with § 5.02(W). The current
permit shall not be terminated until 60 calendar days after the date of sale
unless an imminent threat to public health and safety exists. A performance
inspection of the treatment system certified by a licensed inspector or
qualified employee may be required as part of the new owner’s application.
   (AA)   Suspension or revocation.
      (1)   The Department may suspend or revoke any operating permit issued
under this section for any false statements or misrepresentations of facts on
which the operating permit was issued.
      (2)   Notice of suspension revocation and the reasons for revocation
shall be conveyed in writing to the owner.
      (3)   If suspended or revoked, the County Land and Water Resources
Department may require that the treatment system be removed from service,
operated as a holding tank, or abandoned in accordance with §
5.02(M)(5).
      (4)   At the County Land and Water Resources Department’s discretion, the
operating permit may be reinstated or renewed upon the owner taking appropriate
corrective actions.
   (BB)   Compliance monitoring.
      (1)   Performance monitoring of a SSTS shall be performed by a licensed
service provider hired by the holder of the operating permit in accordance with
the monitoring frequency and parameters stipulated in the permit.
      (2)   A monitoring report shall be prepared and certified by the licensed
service provider. The report shall be submitted to the County Land and Water
Resources Department on a form provided by the Department on or before the
compliance reporting date stipulated in the operating permit. The report shall
contain a description of all maintenance and servicing activities performed
since the last compliance monitoring report as described below:
         (a)   Owner name and address;
         (b)   Operating permit number;
         (c)   Average daily flow since last compliance monitoring report;
         (d)   Description of type of maintenance and date performed;
         (e)   Description of samples taken (if required), analytical
laboratory used and results of analyses;
         (f)   Problems noted with the system and actions proposed or taken to
correct them; and
         (g)   Name, signature, license and license number of the licensed
professional who performed the work.
   (CC)   Abandonment certification.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of the system abandonment certification is to
ensure that a treatment system no longer in service is abandoned within a
reasonable time following decommissioning and in a manner that protects public
health, safety and water quality. It also terminates all permits associated
with the system.
      (2)   Abandonment requirements. 
         (a)   Whenever the use of a SSTS or any system component is
discontinued as the result of a system repair, modification, replacement or
decommissioning following connection to a municipal or private sanitary sewer,
or condemnation or demolition of a building served by the system, further use
of the system or any system component for any purpose under this ordinance
shall be prohibited.
         (b)   Continued use of a treatment tank where the tank is to become an
integral part of a replacement system or a sanitary sewer system requires the
prior written approval of the County Land and Water Resources Department and a
written statement by an appropriately certified and licensed SSTS contractor.
         (c)   An owner of an SSTS must retain an SSTS contractor business to
abandon all components of the treatment system within 60 calendar days of
certification of a new system. Abandonment shall be completed in accordance
with Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.2500. No prior notification of the Land and
Water Resources Department of an owner’s intent to abandon a system is
necessary.
         (d)   A report of abandonment certified by the licensed contractor
business shall be submitted to the County Land and Water Resources Department.
The report shall include:
            1.   Owner’s name and contact information;
            2.   Property address;
            3.   System construction permit and operating permit;
            4.   A copy of the MPCA Abandonment Form;
            5.   The reason(s) for abandonment; and
            6.   A brief description of the abandonment methods used,
description of the system components removed or abandoned in place, and
disposition of any materials or residuals.
      (3)   Abandonment certificate. The County Land and Water Resources
Department shall keep on file a copy of the abandonment certificate as
submitted by a licensed contractor. If the abandonment is not completed
according to the requirements of this ordinance, the County Land and Water
Resources Department shall notify the owner of the SSTS of the deficiencies,
which shall be corrected within 30 calendar days of the notice.
   (DD)   Management plans.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of management plans is to describe how a
particular SSTS is intended to be operated and maintained to sustain the
performance required. The plan is to be provided by the certified designer to
the system owner when the treatment system is designed.
      (2)   Management plan requirements.
         (a)   SSTS requiring management plans. Management plans are required
for all new or replacement SSTS. The management plan shall be submitted to the
County Land and Water Resources Department with the construction permit
application for review and approval. The County Land and Water Resources
Department shall be notified of any system modifications made during
construction and the management plan revised and resubmitted at the time of
final construction certification
         (b)   Required contents of a management plan. Management plans shall
contain all the information required by Minnesota Rules, Part 7082.0600, Subp.
1 and other requirements as determined by the County Land and Water Resources
Department. These may include, but are not limited to: a description of the
system and each component, how the system functions, a plot plan of the system,
equipment specifications, emergency operating procedures in the event of a
malfunction and a troubleshooting guide.
   (EE)   Requirements for systems not operated under a management plan
(Minnesota Rules, Part 7082.0100, Subp. 3(L). SSTS that are not operated under
a management plan or operating permit must have treatment tanks inspected and
provide for the removal of solids if needed at least once every three years.
Solids must be removed when their accumulation meets the limit described in
Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.2450.
   (FF)   Compliance management.
      (1)   Public education outreach. Programs may be provided by the
Department and/or others to increase public awareness and knowledge of SSTS.
Programs may include distribution of educational materials through various
forms of media and SSTS workshops focusing on SSTS planning, construction,
operation, maintenance and management.
      (2)   Compliance inspection program.
         (a)   County Land and Water Resources Department. It is the
responsibility of the Department, or its agent, to perform various SSTS
compliance inspections periodically to assure that the requirements of this
ordinance are met.
         (b)   SSTS compliance inspections must be performed:
            1.   To ensure compliance with applicable requirements;
            2.   To ensure system compliance before issuance of a permit for
addition of a bedroom unless the permit application is made during the period
of November 1 to April 30, provided a compliance inspection is performed before
the following June 1 and the applicant submits a certificate of compliance by
the following September 30;
            3.   For all new SSTS construction, system upgrades or replacement;
and
            4.   For an evaluation, investigation, inspection, recommendation
or other process used to prepare a disclosure statement if conducted by a party
who is not the SSTS owner. Such an inspection constitutes a compliance
inspection and shall be conducted in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Chapter
7082.0700 using the SSTS inspection report forms provided by MPCA.
         (c)   All compliance inspections must be performed according to
Minnesota Rules, Parts 7080 or 7081 and signed by licensed inspection
businesses or qualified employees certified as inspectors.
         (d)   The County Land and Water Resources Department shall be given
access to enter a property at any reasonable time to inspect and/or monitor the
SSTS system. As used in this paragraph, “property” does not include a residence
or private building.
         (e)   No person shall hinder or otherwise interfere with the County
Land and Water Resources Department’s employees in the performance of their
duties and responsibilities pursuant to this ordinance. Refusal to allow
reasonable access to the property by the County Land and Water Resources
Department shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
   (GG)   New construction or replacement.
      (1)   It is the responsibility of the SSTS owner or the owner’s agent to
notify the Department one calendar day prior to any permitted work on the SSTS.
If the owner or owner’s agent provides proper notice and the County Land and
Water Resources Department does not provide inspection within two hours after
time set; construction may be completed according to the approved design.
Inspection by the Department is recommended, if possible, to be conducted
during construction for verification of design and proper installation. The
licensed contractor shall then submit to the County Land and Water Resources
Department within five working days: photographs of the system prior to
covering; and record as-built drawing of the system on forms provided or
approved by the County Land and Water Resources Department to include a
certified statement that the work was installed in accordance with submitted
design and that it was free from defects.
      (2)   A certificate of compliance for new SSTS construction or
replacement, which shall be valid for five years, shall be issued by the County
Land and Water Resources Department if the County Land and Water Resources
Department has reasonable assurance that the system was built in accordance
with the applicable requirements as specified in the construction permit. The
certificate of compliance shall become invalid if the County Land and Water
Resources Department finds evidence of noncompliance.
   (HH)   Existing systems.
      (1)   Compliance inspections shall be required when any of the following
conditions occur:
         (a)   When a construction permit is required to repair, modify or
upgrade an existing system;
         (b)   Any time there is an expansion of use of the building being
served by an existing SSTS which may impact the performance of the system;
         (c)   Any time there is a change in use of the property being served
by an existing SSTS which may impact the performance of the system; and/or
         (d)   In designated shoreland overlay districts, any time applying for
a zoning permit.
      (2)   Compliance inspections of existing SSTS shall be reported on the
inspection report forms provided by MPCA. The inspection must be assessed in
accordance with Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7082.0700, Subp. 4 including:
         (a)   Water-tightness assessment of all treatment tanks including a
leakage report;
         (b)   Vertical separation distance between the bottom of the soil
treatment and dispersal system and the periodically saturated soil or bedrock
including a vertical separation verification report; and
         (c)   Sewage backup, surface seepage or surface discharge including a
hydraulic function report.
      (3)   The certificate of compliance must include a certified statement by
a qualified employee or licensed inspection business, indicating whether the
SSTS is in compliance with the ordinance requirements. If the SSTS is
determined not to be in compliance with the applicable requirements, a notice
of noncompliance must include a statement specifying those ordinance provisions
with which the SSTS does not comply. A construction permit application must be
submitted to the Land and Water Resources Department if the required corrective
action is not a minor repair.
      (4)   The certificate of compliance or notice of noncompliance must be
submitted to the Land and Water Resources Department and the property owner or
the owner’s agent no later than 15 calendar days after the date the inspection
was performed. The County Land and Water Resources Department may deliver the
certificate of compliance or notice of noncompliance to the owner or the
owner’s agent once the Department has received the receipt from the licensed
inspection business.
      (5)   Certificates of compliance for existing SSTS shall remain valid for
three years from the date of issue unless the County Land and Water Resources
Department finds evidence of noncompliance.
   (II)   Transfer of properties.
      (1)   Sale or transfer of property.
         (a)   A compliance inspection must be completed prior to the closing
date on the sale or transfer of all properties served by an SSTS. Either a
certificate of compliance or a notice of noncompliance shall be issued. A
notice of noncompliance shall indicate the presence of an imminent health
threat or failing to protect ground water as defined in this section.
         (b)   Those properties receiving a notice of noncompliance for an
imminent health threat must upgrade within ten months.
         (c)   For certificate of compliance situations: the certificate of
compliance shall be filed with the County Property and Election Services
Department along with the certificate of real estate value.
         (d)   For notice of noncompliance/non-imminent health threat
situations: the notice of noncompliance shall be filed with the County Auditor
along with the certificate of real estate value. An upgrade shall occur within
five years.
         (e)   For imminent health threat situations: a certificate of
compliance indicating an approved system has been installed or a zoning permit
indicating an upgrade will occur within ten months and evidence of escrow
account shall be filed with the County Property and Election Services
Department along with the certificate of real estate value.
         (f)   Transactions occurring between November 1 and April 30: if the
closing date on the sale or transfer of property occurs between November 1 and
the following April 30, and the inspection cannot be completed, the transfer
may occur with a stipulation that evidence of an escrow account be filed with
the certificate of real estate value. A compliance inspection shall be
completed and a certificate of compliance, notice of noncompliance or zoning
permit submitted to the County Property and Election Services Department by the
following June 1.
         (g)   Escrow account amount: the amount to be escrowed shall be:
            1.   The amount of the bid for the approved design used in
obtaining the filed zoning permit; or
            2.   The annual average cost of a standard mound system as
determined by the County Land and Water Resources Department.
         (h)   Exempt transactions: no compliance inspection is required if the
sale or transfer involves the following circumstances (in subsections (II)(1)
(h)1., (II)(1)(h)2. and (II)(1)(h)3. below, an exemption form shall be filed
with the County Property and Election Services Department along with the
certificate of real estate value):
            1.   The tract of land is without buildings or contains no
dwellings or other buildings with plumbing fixtures;
            2.   The sale or transfer completes a contract for deed entered
into prior to January 1, 1998. This subsection applies only to the original
vendor and vendee on such a contract;
            3.   Any dwellings or other buildings with running water which are
connected to a municipal treatment system; and
            4.   No certificate of real estate value need be filed with the
County Property and Election Services Department, as per M.S. Chapter 272.115,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Notices, certificates and the like. Neither the issuance of
permits, certificates of compliance or notices of noncompliance as requested or
issued shall be construed to represent a guarantee or warranty of the system’s
operation or effectiveness. Such certificates signify that the system in
question is or has been designed and installed in compliance or noncompliance
with the provisions of these standards and regulations.
   (JJ)   Dispute resolution.
      (1)   Dispute process.
         (a)   The applicant for any SSTS permit or compliance inspection may
contest any or all the stipulations of said permit or report. This must be done
in writing by providing relevant and detailed reasons why the Department should
reconsider the stipulations.
         (b)   If the owner contests the stipulations, the Department shall
review the stipulations and inform the owner of its decision in writing within
30 working days. The reasons behind the decision must be clearly documented
whether the request is denied, or the stipulations are revised.
      (2)   Dispute resolution. If there is a dispute between two or more
parties, the dispute resolution will be as follows:
         (a)   If the dispute is between two contractors for design or
inspection, the Department ruling will be final as to the interpretation of the
limiting layer or other condition in question.
         (b)   If the dispute is between a contractor and the Department, the
dispute resolution procedure described in Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7082.0700,
Subp. 5B must be followed.
   (KK)   Enforcement (state notification). In accordance with state law, the
County Land and Water Resources Department shall notify the MPCA of any
inspection, installation, design, construction, alteration or repair of an SSTS
by a licensed/certified person or any septage removal by a licensed pumper that
is performed in violation of the provisions of this ordinance.
   (LL)   Record-keeping. The county shall maintain a current record of all
permitted systems. The record shall contain all permit applications, issued
permits, fees assessed, variance requests, certificates of compliance, notices
of noncompliance, enforcement proceedings, site evaluation reports, design
reports, as-built drawings, management plans, maintenance reports, an annual
list of all sewage tanks installed in the county sorted by licensed
installation businesses and other records relevant to each system.
   (MM)   Annual report. The County Land and Water Resources Department shall
provide an annual report of SSTS permitting activities to MPCA no later than
February 1 for the previous calendar year.
   (NN)   Fees. From time to time, the Waseca County Board shall establish fees
for activities undertaken by the County Land and Water Resources Department
pursuant to this ordinance. Fees shall be due and payable at a time and in a
manner to be determined by the County Land and Water Resources Department.
   (OO)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this ordinance shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the county and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
   (PP)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
ordinance is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the
remainder of this ordinance shall not be affected and shall remain in full
force.
   (QQ)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
ordinance to repeal, abrogate or impair any other existing county ordinance,
easements, covenants or deed restrictions; however, where this ordinance
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this ordinance shall prevail.
All other ordinances inconsistent with this ordinance are hereby repealed to
the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (RR)   Ordinance repealed. The county previous ordinance for the regulation
of individual sewage treatment systems of the county contained within the
Unified Development Code is hereby repealed and the code amended as shown
herein.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 98, passed 1-5-2010; Ord. 145, passed 4-6-
2021; Ord. 162, passed 5-5-2025)
§ 5.03 SANITARY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Required compliance. All sewage and water systems hereafter
constructed or reconstructed shall conform to the provisions of this section
and any other ordinance or regulations of the county and the state.
   (B)   Municipal treatment systems. Methods of disposal shall comply with the
standards, criteria, rules and regulations of the State Pollution Control
Agency.
   (C)   Agricultural waste disposal. Any agricultural waste disposal
operations must conform to the standards, criteria, rules and regulations of
the State Pollution Control Agency.
   (D)   Water systems. 
      (1)   Public water facilities, including pipe fittings, hydrants and the
like, shall be installed and maintained as required by standards and
specifications as established by the County Board and the State Department of
Health Standards for water quality.
      (2)   Where public water facilities are not available, the County Board
may by ordinance grant a franchise for such water facilities, to serve all
properties within the area where a complete and adequate community water
distribution system is designed, and complete plans for the system are
submitted to and approved by the County Board and the State Department of
Health.
      (3)   Individual wells shall be constructed and maintained according to
standards and regulations contained in the county water well ordinance and the
State Department of Health Well Code.
   (E)   Waste water treatment.
      (1)   Public wastewater treatment systems shall be installed as required
by standards and specifications as established by the Board of County
Commissioners, the State Pollution Control Agency, and the State Department of
Health.
      (2)   Where municipal waste water treatment is not available, the Board
of County Commissioners may by ordinance grant a franchise for such sewers to
serve all properties in the area where a complete and adequate community waste
water treatment system and plant are designed, and complete plans for the
system and plant are submitted to and approved by the Board of County
Commissioners, the State Pollution Control Agency and the State Department of
Health before construction.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 5.04 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT AND SEDIMENT AND EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   Best Management Practices encouraged and Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan required.
      (1)   Best Management Practices (BMPs) encouraged. Whenever possible,
existing natural drainageways and vegetated soil surfaces must be used to
convey, store, filter and retain stormwater runoff before discharge to public
waters.
         (a)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
         (b)   When development density, topographic features and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation and infiltration rather than buried pipes and human-made materials
and facilities.
      (2)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan. 
         (a)   A Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) shall be required
to all proposed land development activity, unless otherwise exempted in this
ordinance that meets any or all of the following:
            1.   Any land development activity that may ultimately result in
the addition of one acre or greater of impervious surfaces, including smaller
individual sites that are part of a common plan of development that may be
constructed at different times;
            2.   A subdivision plat;
            3.   The construction of any new public or private road; and/or
            4.   Any land development activity, regardless of size, that the
county determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally
sensitive area or other property.
         (b)    A SWPPP shall be required providing the measures to be taken to
control or manage runoff and erosion from such land disturbance listed in §
5.04(A)(2)(a) both during construction and after final stabilization of the
site. No zoning permit, subdivision approval or permit to allow land-disturbing
activities shall be issued until approval of this SWPPP by the MPCA. All SWPPPs
shall be consistent with National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
(NPDES) permit requirements, and the filing or approval requirements of other
regulatory bodies.
   (B)   Erosion and sediment control permit required. An Erosion and Sediment
Control (ESC) permit, including an Erosion and Sediment Control Plan shall be
required to all proposed land-disturbing activity, unless otherwise exempted in
this ordinance that meets any or all of the following:
      (1)   Disturbs a total land surface area of 6,000 square feet or more;
      (2)   Involves excavation or filling, or a combination of excavation and
filling, in excess of 400 cubic yards of material;
      (3)   Involves the laying, repairing, replacing or enlarging of an
underground utility, pipe or other facility, or the disturbance of road ditch
or grass swale for a distance of 300 feet or more; or
      (4)   Is a land-disturbing activity, regardless of size, that the county
determines is likely to cause an adverse impact to an environmentally sensitive
area or other property, or may violate any other erosion and sediment control
standard set forth in this ordinance.
   (C)   Exemptions. The following activities shall be exempt from all of the
requirements of this ordinance:
      (1)   Emergency work to protect life, limb or property; and
      (2)   Routine agricultural activity. Tilling, planting, harvesting and
associated activities. Other agricultural activities are not exempt and
including activities such as feedlots, storage sheds.
   (D)   Stormwater and erosion and sediment control specifications.
      (1)   Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan requirements. The minimum
requirements of the SWPPP shall be consistent with the most recent version of
the NPDES permit requirements.
      (2)   Erosion and Sediment Control Plan requirements. The minimum
requirements of the ESC Plan shall be consistent with the most recent version
of the NPDES permit requirements.
   (E)   Stormwater and erosion and sediment control performance standards.
Stormwater management performance standards.
      (1)   Volume control for water quantity. All stormwater facilities shall
be designed, installed and maintained to effectively accomplish the following:
         (a)   Maintain predevelopment peak runoff rates for the one-year and
two-year, 24-hour storm events;
         (b)   Maintain predevelopment peak runoff rates for the ten-year, 24-
hour storm event. At a minimum, the storm sewer conveyance system shall be
designed for this storm event. Low areas must have an acceptable overland
drainage route with the proper transfer capacity when the storm event is
exceeded;
         (c)   Provide a stable emergency overflow to safely pass the 100-year,
24-hour storm event or the 100-year ten-day snowmelt, whichever is greater;
         (d)   Discharges must have a stable outlet capable of carrying
designed flow at a non-erosive velocity. Outlet design must consider flow
capacity and flow duration. This requirement applies to both the site outlet
and the ultimate outlet to stormwater conveyance or waterbody;
         (e)   The project shall use existing natural drainageways and
vegetated soil surfaces to convey, treat, filter and retain stormwater runoff
before discharge into public waters or a stormwater conveyance system. The
applicant shall limit the impervious surface of the developed site or
subdivision by incorporating design considerations identified in the Minnesota
Stormwater Manual such as narrowing street widths, reducing parking lot space,
reducing setbacks and driveways, maximizing open space while incorporating
smaller lot sizes to conserve natural areas to help reduce the amount of
stormwater runoff generated at the site; and
         (f)   Runoff from rooftops, driveways and other impervious areas shall
be directed to pervious surfaces, where feasible, or unless the applicant can
demonstrate the practice is likely to result in nuisance flooding and/or
groundwater contamination.
      (2)   Infiltration for volume reduction. The following requirements must
be met.
         (a)   Infiltration volumes and facility sizes shall be designed using
the procedures in Chapter 12 of the Minnesota Stormwater Manual.
         (b)   Design and placement of infiltration BMPs shall be done in
accordance with the State Department of Health guidance called “Evaluating
Proposed Stormwater Infiltration Projects in Vulnerable Wellhead Protection
Areas”.
      (3)   Protection of surface waters. Waterbodies shall be protected from
runoff generated during construction and after completion of the development in
accordance with state statutes and the NPDES permit. Runoff shall not be
discharged directly into surface waters without appropriate quantity and
quality runoff control.
      (4)   BMP buffers. 
         (a)   Buffers are areas of vegetation located adjacent to receiving
waters to protect water quality. Buffers help minimize runoff of sediment,
debris, nutrients and pesticides into receiving waters by providing an area of
undisturbed vegetation in order to trap sediment and debris from adjacent land
areas.
         (b)   Buffers for water quality protection shall commence at the
“ordinary high water mark”, or at the delineated boundary of the waterbody.
         (c)   The widths are established by the slope of land between the
activity and the water body as follows:
      (5)   Slope of land between activity and water body.
 
Recommended Width of Filter Strip
Slope     Distance*
0 to 10%  50 feet
11 to 20% 51 to 70 feet
21 to 40% 71 to 110 feet
41 to 70% 111 to 150 feet
*For roads, distance is measured from the edge of soil disturbance. For fills,
distance is measured from the bottom of the fill slope, filter strip width
increases approximately two feet for each percent increase in slope above 10%.
For example, the filter strip recommendation for a range in slope values from
11 to 20% is 51 to 70 feet. If the slope is 18%, then the filter strip width
is 66 feet.
 
         (a)   The applicant shall maintain the buffer for the first year after
completion of the project.
         (b)   Where land-disturbing construction activity occurs within a
buffer area, and where no impervious surface is present, adequate approved
native vegetative cover of 70% or greater shall be established and maintained.
The native vegetative cover shall be sufficient to provide for bank stability
from upslope overland flow areas under sheet flow conditions. Non-vegetative
materials, such as rock riprap, may be employed on the bank as necessary to
prevent erosion, such as on steep slopes or where high velocity flows occur.
         (c)   BMPs such as filter strips, swales or wet detention basins,
designed to control pollutants from nonpoint pollution sources may be located
in the buffer area.
         (d)   For special waters, impaired waters and wetlands in areas
identified by the county as exceptional buffers shall be a minimum of 100 feet.
      (6)   Special, impaired and/or TMDL water requirements. All projects to
special, impaired and/ or TMDL waters must meet the minimum requirements of the
NPDES permit to discharge stormwater associated with construction activity.
      (7)   Erosion and sediment control performance standards.
         (a)   Construction activity requirements for erosion and sediment
control are provided in the NPDES permit. They include stormwater pollution
prevention plans, erosion prevention practices, sediment control practices,
dewatering and basin draining, and final stabilization.
         (b)   In addition, streets shall be cleaned and swept within 24-hours
whenever tracking of sediment of occurs and before sites are left idle for
weekends and holidays.
   (F)   Pollution prevention. In addition to the following the applicant will
comply with NPDES permit for pollution prevention management measures.
      (1)   Illegal disposal.
         (a)   No person shall throw, deposit, place, leave, maintain or keep
or permit to be thrown, placed, left, maintained or kept, any refuse, rubbish,
garbage or any other discarded or abandoned objects, articles or accumulations,
in or upon any street, alley, sidewalk, storm drain, inlet, catch basin conduit
or drainage structure, business place or upon any public or private plot of
land in county, so that the same might be or become a pollutant, except in
containers, recycling bags or other lawfully established waste disposal
facility.
         (b)   No person shall intentionally dispose of grass, leaves, dirt or
other landscape debris into a water resource buffer, street, road, alley, catch
basin, culvert, curb, gutter, inlet, ditch, natural watercourse, flood control
channel, canal, storm drain or any fabricated natural conveyance.
      (2)   Illicit discharges and connections.
         (a)   No person shall cause any illicit discharge to enter the public
stormwater system unless such discharge:
            1.   Consists of non-stormwater that is authorized by an NPDES
point source permit obtained from the MPCA; and
            2.   Is associated with firefighting activities.
         (b)   No person shall use any illicit connection to intentionally
convey non-stormwater to county stormwater system.
      (3)   Good housekeeping provisions. Any owner or occupant of property
within the county shall comply with the following good housekeeping
requirements.
         (a)   No person shall leave, deposit, discharge, dump or otherwise
expose any chemical or septic waste in an area where discharge to streets or
storm drain system may occur. This section shall apply to both actual and
potential discharges. For pools, water should be allowed to sit seven days to
allow for chlorine to evaporate before discharge. If fungicides have been used,
water must be tested and approved for discharge to the wastewater treatment
plant.
         (b)   Runoff of water from residential property shall be minimized to
the maximum extent practicable.
         (c)   Runoff of water from the washing down of paved areas in
commercial or industrial property is prohibited unless necessary for health or
safety purposes and not in violation of any other provisions in county codes.
      (4)   Storage of materials, machinery and equipment.
         (a)   Objects, such as motor vehicle parts, containing grease, oil or
other hazardous substances, and unsealed receptacles containing hazardous
materials, shall not be stored in areas susceptible to runoff.
         (b)   Any machinery or equipment that is to be repaired or maintained
in areas susceptible to runoff shall be placed in a confined area to contain
leaks, spills or discharges.
      (5)   Removal of debris and residue. Debris and residue shall be removed,
as noted below.
         (a)   All motor vehicle parking lots shall be swept, at a minimum of
twice a year to remove debris. Such debris shall be collected and properly
disposed.
         (b)   Fuel and chemical residue or other types of potentially harmful
material, such as animal waste, garbage or batteries, which is located in an
area susceptible to runoff, shall be removed as soon as possible and disposed
of properly. Household hazardous waste may be disposed of through county
collection program or at any other appropriate disposal site and shall not be
place in a trash container.
   (G)   Inspections and maintenance.
      (1)   Inspections and enforcement. The applicant is responsible for
inspections and record keeping in accordance with the NPDES permit
requirements. Waseca County, or a consulting engineer assigned by the county
shall conduct inspections, at an applicant’s expense, on a regular basis to
ensure that both stormwater and erosion and sediment control measures are
properly installed and maintained prior to construction, during construction,
and at the completion of the project. Mandatory inspections may be required as
follows:
         (a)   Before any land-disturbing activity begins;
         (b)   At the completion of the project; and
         (c)   Prior to the release of financial securities.
      (2)   Stop work order. In cases where cooperation is withheld,
construction stop work orders shall be issued by the county, until stormwater
and erosion and sediment control measures meet the requirements of this
ordinance. An inspection must follow before work can commence. Expenses
incurred by the county will be paid by the developer.
      (3)   Construction stop order. The county may issue construction stop
orders until stormwater management measures meet specifications. A second
stormwater management inspection must then be scheduled and passed before the
final inspection will be done.
      (4)   Perimeter breach. If stormwater and/or erosion and sediment control
management measures malfunction and breach the perimeter of the site, enter
streets, other public areas, or waterbodies, the applicant shall immediately
develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain the right-of-way from the
adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup and restoration plan within
48 hours of obtaining permission, if in the discretion of the county, the
applicant does not repair the damage caused by the stormwater runoff the county
can do the remedial work required and charge the cost to the applicant.
      (5)   Actions to ensure compliance. The county can take the following
action in the event of a failure by applicant to meet the terms of this
ordinance:
         (a)   Withhold inspections or issuance of certificates or approvals;
         (b)   Revoke any permit issued by the county to the applicant;
         (c)   Conduct remedial or corrective action on the development site or
adjacent site affected by the failure;
         (d)   Charge applicant for all costs associated with correcting the
failure or remediating damage from the failure. If payment is not made within
30 days, payment will be made from the applicant’s financial securities;
         (e)   Bring other actions against the applicant to recover costs of
remediation or meeting the terms of this ordinance; and
         (f)   Any person, firm or corporation failing to comply with or
violating any of these regulation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both. Each day that a separate
violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   Long-term inspection and maintenance of stormwater facilities.
      (1)   Private stormwater facilities. No private stormwater facilities may
be approved unless a maintenance plan is provided that defines who will conduct
the maintenance, the type of maintenance and the maintenance intervals. All
private stormwater facilities shall be inspected annually and maintained in
proper condition consistent with the performance standards for which they were
originally designed.
         (a)   Facility access. Access to all stormwater facilities must be
inspected annually and maintained as necessary. It shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to obtain any necessary easements or other property interests
to allow access to the facilities for inspection or maintenance for both the
responsible party and the county.
         (b)   Removal of settled materials. All settled materials from ponds,
sumps, grit chambers and other devices, including settled solids, shall be
removed and properly disposed of.
         (c)   County inspections. All stormwater facilities within the county
may be inspected by Waseca County or a consulting engineer assigned by the
county during construction, during the first year of operation, and at least
once every five years thereafter.
      (2)   Public stormwater facilities.
         (a)   Acceptance of publicly owned facilities. Before work under the
permit is deemed complete, the permittee must submit as-builts and a
maintenance plan to Waseca County demonstrating at the time of final
stabilization that the stormwater facilities conform to design specifications.
A final inspection shall be required before the county accepts ownership of the
stormwater facilities.
         (b)   Maintenance. The county shall perform maintenance of publicly
owned stormwater facilities in accordance with their comprehensive stormwater
management plan and other regulatory requirements.
   (I)   Permit review process, financial procedures and enforcement actions.
      (1)   Pre-review. The county shall make a determination regarding the
completeness of a permit application within ten days of the receipt of the
application and notify the applicant if the application is not complete.
      (2)   Permit review. The applicant shall not commence any construction
activity subject to this ordinance until a permit has been authorized by the
county. A complete review of the permit application shall be done within 14
business days of the receipt of a complete permit application from the
applicant. The county will work with the necessary state, county and local
agencies to complete the review.
      (3)   Permit authorization. If the county determines that the application
meets the requirements of this ordinance, the county may issue approval which
authorizes the project or activity. The approval shall be valid for one year.
Approval will typically be in the form of a letter from the County Engineer to
the applicant.
      (4)   Permit denial. If the county determines the application does not
meet the requirements of this ordinance, this application must be resubmitted
for approval before activity begins. All land use and building permits shall be
suspended until the applicant has an authorized permit.
      (5)   Modification of plans. The applicant must amend the ESC Plan or
SWPPP as necessary to include additional requirements such as additional or
modified BMPs designed to correct problems identified or address situations
whenever:
         (a)   A change in design, construction, operation, maintenance,
weather or seasonal conditions that has a significant effect on the discharge
of pollutants to surface waters or underground waters;
         (b)   Inspections or investigations by site operators, local, state or
federal officials indicate the plans are not effective in eliminating or
significantly minimizing the discharge of pollutants to surface waters or
underground waters or that the discharges are causing water quality standard
exceedances; or
         (c)   The plan is not achieving the general objectives of minimizing
pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction activity, or
the plan is not consistent with the terms and conditions of this permit.
      (6)   Variance requests. The county may grant a variance on a case-by-
case basis. The content of a variance shall be specific, and shall not affect
other approved provisions of a permit.
         (a)   The variance request shall be in writing and include the reason
for requesting the variance.
         (b)   Economic hardship is not sufficient reason for granting a
variance.
         (c)   The county shall respond to the variance request in writing and
include the justification for granting or denying the request.
      (7)   Financial securities. The applicant may be required to provide
security for the performance of the work described and delineated on the
approved permit and related remedial work in an amount of $3,000 per gross acre
($6,000 for work done in special or impaired waters as determined by the
county) or $1,500 for each single or two-family home, whichever is greater.
This amount shall apply to the maximum acreage of soil that will be
simultaneously exposed during the project’s construction. The form of the
securities shall be one or a combination of the following to be determined by
the county.
         (a)   Cash deposit. The first $3,000 of the financial security for
erosion and sediment control shall be by cash deposit to the county.
         (b)   Securing deposit. Deposit, either with the county, a responsible
escrow agent, or trust company, at the option of the county, either:
            1.   An irrevocable letter of credit or negotiable bonds of the
kind approved for securing deposits of public money or other instruments of
credit from one or more financial institutions, subject to regulation by the
state and federal government wherein the financial institution pledges funds
are on deposit and guaranteed for payment;
            2.   Cash in U.S. currency; or
            3.   Other forms and securities (e.g., disbursing agreement) as
approved by the county.
         (c)   County free and harmless. This security shall save the county
free and harmless from all suits or claims for damages resulting from the
negligent grading, removal, placement or storage of rock, sand, gravel, soil or
other like material within the county.
      (8)   Maintaining the financial security. If at anytime during the course
of the work this amount falls below 50% of the required deposit, the developer
shall make another deposit in the amount necessary to restore the cash deposit
to the required amount. If the developer does not bring the financial security
back up to the required amount within seven days after notification by the
county that the amount has fallen below 50% of the required amount, the county
may:
         (a)   Withhold inspections. Withhold the scheduling of inspections
and/or the issuance of a certificate of occupancy.
         (b)   Revocation of permits. Revoke any permit issued by the county to
the applicant for the site in question or any other of the applicant’s sites
within the county’s jurisdiction.
      (9)   Proportional reduction of the financial security. When more than
one-third of the applicant’s maximum exposed soil area achieves final
stabilization, the county can reduce the total required amount of the financial
security by one-third. When more than two-thirds of the applicant’s maximum
exposed soil area achieves final stabilization, the county can reduce the total
required amount of the financial security to two-thirds of the initial amount.
This reduction in financial security will be determined by the county staff.
      (10)   Action against the financial security. The county may access
financial security for remediation actions if any of the conditions listed
below exist. The county shall use the security to finance remedial work
undertaken by the county, or a remedial work including, but not limited to,
staff time and attorney’s fees.
         (a)   Abandonment. The developer ceases land-disturbing activities
and/or filling and abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading
plan.
         (b)   Failure to implement the SWPPP or ESC plan. The developer fails
to conform to the grading plan and/or the SWPPP as approved by the county.
         (c)   Failure to perform. The techniques utilized under the SWPPP fail
within one year of installation.
         (d)   Failure to reimburse county. The developer fails to reimburse
the county for corrective action taken.
      (11)   Returning the financial security. The security deposited with the
county for faithful performance of the SWPPP or the ESC Plan and any related
remedial work shall be released one full year after the completion of the
installation of all stormwater pollution control measures as shown on the SWPPP
or ESC Plan.
      (12)   Emergency action. If circumstances exist such that noncompliance
with this ordinance poses an immediate danger to the health, safety and
welfare, as determined by the county, the county may take emergency
preventative action. The county shall also take every reasonable action
possible to contact and direct the applicant to take any necessary action. Any
cost to the county may be recovered from the applicant’s financial security.
      (13)   Notification of failure of the permit. The county shall notify the
permit holder of the failure of the permit’s measures.
         (a)   Initial contact. The initial contact will be to the party or
parties listed on the application and/or the SWPPP as contacts. Except during
an emergency action, 48 hours after notification by the county or 72 hours
after the failure of erosion and sediment control measures, whichever is less,
the county at its discretion, may begin corrective work. Such notification
should be in writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow
as quickly as practical. If after making a good faith effort to notify the
responsible party or parties, the county has been unable to establish contact,
the county may proceed with corrective work. There are conditions when time is
of the essence in controlling erosion. During such a condition, the county may
take immediate action, and then notify the applicant as soon as possible.
         (b)   Erosion off-site. If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site,
the applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain
the right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup
and restoration plan within 48 hours of obtaining the adjoining property
owner’s permission. In no case, unless written approval is received from the
county, may more than seven calendar days go by without corrective action being
taken.
         (c)   County may do remedial work. If in the discretion of the county,
the permit holder does not repair the damage caused by the erosion, the county
may do the remedial work required. When restoration to wetlands and other
resources are required, the applicant should be required to work with the
appropriate agency to ensure that the work is done properly.
         (d)   Erosion into streets, wetlands or water bodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands or other water bodies, cleanup and repair shall be
immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic control and flagging
required to protect the traveling public during the cleanup operations.
         (e)   Failure to do corrective work. When an applicant fails to
conform to any provision of this policy within the time stipulated, the county
may take the following actions:
            1.   Issue a stop work order, withhold the scheduling of
inspections, and/or the issuance of a certificate of occupancy;
            2.   Revoke any permit issued by the county to the applicant for
the site in question or any other of the applicant’s sites with in the county’s
jurisdiction;
            3.   Correct the deficiency or hire a contractor to correct the
deficiency;
            4.   Require reimbursement to the county for all costs incurred in
correcting stormwater pollution control deficiencies;
            5.   If payment is not made within 30 days after costs are incurred
by the county, payment will be made from the applicant’s financial securities
as described in subsection (I)(7) above; and/or
            6.   If there is an insufficient financial amount in the
applicant’s financial securities as described in subsection (I)(7) above, then
the county may assess the remaining amount against the property. As a condition
of the permit, the owner shall waive notice of any assessment hearing to be
conducted by the county, concur that the benefit to the property exceeds the
amount of the proposed assessment, and waive all rights by virtue of M.S. §
429.081, as it may be amended from time to time, to challenge the amount or
validity of assessment.
      (14)   Enforcement. The county shall be responsible enforcing this
ordinance and assessing any penalties. Any person, firm or corporation failing
to comply with or violating any of these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine or imprisonment or both. All land use
and building permits must be suspended until the applicant has corrected the
violation. Each day that a separate violation exists shall constitute a
separate offense.
      (15)   Right of entry and inspection. The issuance of a permit
constitutes a right-of-entry for the county or its contractor to enter upon the
construction site. The applicant shall allow the county and its authorized
representatives, upon presentation of credentials to:
         (a)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations or surveys;
         (b)   Bring such equipment upon the permitted development as is
necessary to conduct such surveys and investigations;
         (c)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records or memoranda
pertaining to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and
conditions of this permitted site;
         (d)   Inspect the stormwater pollution control measures;
         (e)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to
stormwater pollution control measures; and
         (f)   Correcting deficiencies in stormwater and erosion and sediment
control measures.
      (16)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended to repeal,
abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions;
however, where this ordinance imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of
this ordinance shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent with this
ordinance are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 5.05 BUFFER CODE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization and policy.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. This buffer ordinance is adopted pursuant
to the authorization and policies contained in M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be
amended from time to time, the Buffer Law, and the county planning and zoning
enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter 394, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Purpose and intent. It is the purpose and intent of the county to:
         (a)   Provide for riparian vegetated buffers and water quality
practices to achieve the following purposes:
            1.   Protect state water resources from erosion and runoff
pollution;
            2.   Stabilize soils, shores and banks; and
            3.   Protect or provide riparian corridors.
         (b)   Coordinate the implementation and enforcement of the water
resources riparian protection requirements of M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be
amended from time to time with the shoreland management rules and ordinances
adopted under the authority of M.S. §§ 103F.201 to 103F.227, as they may be
amended from time to time, and the management of public drainage systems
established under M.S. Chapter 103E, as it may be amended from time to time,
where applicable; and
         (c)   Provide efficient and effective direction to landowners and
protection of surface water quality and related land resources.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
      (2)   Data sharing/management.
         (a)   The county may enter into arrangements with an SWCD, a watershed
district if applicable, BWSR and other parties with respect to the creation and
maintenance of, and access to, data concerning buffers and alternative
practices under this section.
         (b)   The county will manage all such data in accordance with the
Minnesota Data Practices Act and any other applicable laws.
   (C)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this section apply to all waters,
shown on the buffer protection map, excluding public drainage systems for which
the county is not the drainage authority under M.S. Chapter 103E, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Buffer requirements.
      (1)   Buffer width. Except as provided in subsections (D)(4) and (5), a
landowner owning property adjacent to a water body identified on the buffer
protection map must establish and maintain a buffer area as follows:
         (a)   For waters shown on the buffer protection map requiring a 50-
foot width buffer, the buffer width will be 50-foot average and 30-foot minimum
width as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, as measured according to subsection (D)(2); and
         (b)   For waters shown on the buffer protection map requiring a 16.5-
foot minimum width buffer, the buffer width will be 16.5 feet as provided in
M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, and as
measured according to subsection (D)(2).
      (2)   Measurement.
         (a)   The width of any required buffer on land adjacent to a water
requiring a 50-foot average width and a 30-foot minimum width buffer shall be
measured from the top or crown of the bank. Where there is no defined bank,
measurement must be from the edge of the normal water level as provided in M.S.
§ 103F.48, Subd.3(c), as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   The width of any required buffer on land adjacent to a water
requiring a 16.5-foot minimum width buffer shall be measured in the same manner
as for measuring the vegetated grass strip under M.S. § 103E.021, Subd. 6, as
it may be amended from time to time, as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 3(c),
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Use of buffer area. Except as provided in subsections (D)(4) and
(5), a buffer as defined in this section may not be put to any use, included
but not limited to cultivation farming, which would remove or prevent the
permanent growth of perennial vegetation.
      (4)   Exemptions. The requirement of subsection (D)(1) does not apply to
land that is exempted from the water resources riparian protection requirements
under M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   Alternative practices. As provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 3(b),
as it may be amended from time to time, an owner of land that is used for
cultivation farming may demonstrate compliance with subsection (D)(1) by
establishing and maintaining an alternative riparian water quality practice(s),
or combination of structural, vegetative, and management practice(s) which
provide water quality protection comparable to the water quality protection
provided by a required buffer as defined in subsections (D) through (D)(3). The
adequacy of any alternative practice allowed under this section shall be based
on:
         (a)   The Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Field Office
Technical Guide (FOTG);
         (b)   Common alternative practices adopted and published by BWSR;
         (c)   Practices based on local conditions approved by the SWCD that
are consistent with the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) Field
Office Technical Guide (FOTG); or
         (d)   Other practices adopted by BWSR.
      (6)   Nonconformity. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance
or regulation imposes greater restrictions than this section, the provisions of
such shall be controlling. The continuation of nonconformities provided for by
M.S. §§ 394 and 462, as they may be amended from time to time, shall not apply
to compliance with this section and M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (E)   Compliance determinations.
      (1)   Compliance determinations. Compliance with the buffer requirements
set forth in subsection (D) will be determined by the SWCD on a parcel by
parcel basis. The compliance status of each bank, or edge of a waterbody on an
individual parcel will be determined independently.
      (2)   Investigation and notification of noncompliance. When the county
identifies a potential noncompliance with the buffer requirements or receives a
third party complaint from a private individual or entity, or from another
public agency, it will consult with the SWCD to determine the appropriate
course of action to document compliance status. This may include communication
with the landowner, inspection or other appropriate steps necessary to verify
the compliance status of the parcel. On the basis of the evidence gathered in
this process, the SWCD may issue a notification of noncompliance to the county.
If the SWCD does not issue such a notification, the county will not pursue a
compliance or enforcement action under M.S.§ 103F.48, as it may be amended from
time to time and subsection (F)(2).
         (a)   At any time during process set forth in subsections (E)(2) and
(3), the landowner may provide documentation of compliance to the SWCD.
         (b)   Compliance determination: the SWCD will evaluate the available
documentation, and/or evaluate and/or inspect the buffer and/or alternative
practices to determine if the parcel is in compliance. Upon completion of the
evaluation and/or inspection the SWCD shall issue a written compliance
determination to the landowner, the county and BWSR. The SWCD may also issue a
validation of compliance if applicable and requested by the landowner.
      (3)   Corrective action notice.
         (a)   On receipt of an SWCD notification of noncompliance, the county
will issue the landowner a corrective action notice that will:
            1.   Include a list of corrective actions needed to come into
compliance with the requirements of M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be amended from
time to time;
            2.   Provide a timeline for complying with the corrective action
notice;
            3.   Provide a compliance standard against which the county will
judge the corrective action; and
            4.   Include a statement that failure to respond to this notice may
result in the assessment of criminal, civil or administrative penalties.
         (b)   The county may send the landowner a combined corrective action
notice and APO as provided in subsection (F)(2) so long as the combined notice/
APO includes all the required elements of both.
         (c)   The county shall transmit the corrective action notice by either
personal service to the landowner or by depositing the same in the U.S. mail.
If service is made by U.S. mail, the document is deemed received three business
days after the notice was placed in the U.S. mail. Failure of actual receipt of
a corrective action notice that has either been personally served or served by
depositing the same in the U.S. mail shall not be deemed a defense in an
enforcement proceeding under subsection (F). The county shall also send a copy
of the notice to the SWCD and BWSR.
         (d)   Counties may modify the corrective actions and timeline for
compliance, in accordance with subsection (E)(2), to extend the compliance
timeline for a modification that imposes a substantial new action or
significantly accelerates the completion date for an action.
         (e)   At any time after receipt of a corrective action notice, the
landowner may provide documentation of compliance to the county. In addition,
the landowner may supply information to the county or the SWCD in support of a
request to modify a corrective action or the timeline for compliance. On the
basis of any such submittal or at its own discretion, the county may make a
written modification to the corrective action notice or timeline for
compliance. The county should also make a written determination documenting
whether the noncompliance has been fully corrected. Any such modification of a
compliance determination will be served on the landowner in the manner provided
for in subsection (E)(3). The county shall provide the SWCD and BWSR a written
copy of any modification made pursuant to this provision.
         (f)   The SWCD may, after an evaluation of the evidence documenting
compliance submitted by the landowner, issue a written validation of compliance
if requested by the landowner. Upon receipt by the county of a written
compliance determination issued by the SWCD, the corrective action notice will
be deemed withdrawn for the purpose of subsection (F), and the subject property
will not be subject to enforcement under that section.
   (F)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Failure to comply with a corrective action notice issued under
subsection (E).  The county may, at its own discretion, elect to pursue the
failure to comply with a corrective action notice either criminally or through
an administrative penalty order as set forth herein.
         (a)   Failure to comply with a corrective action notice issued under
subsection (E) constitutes a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by
law.
         (b)   The county may issue an APO as provided for in M.S. §§ 103F.48,
Subd. 7(b) and (c) and 103B.101, Subd. 12a, as they may be amended from time to
time, to a landowner who has failed to take the corrective action set forth in
the corrective action notice. For the APO to be effective it must be served on
the landowner together with a copy of the corrective action notice or
alternatively, the county may serve the landowner with a combined corrective
action notice and APO so long as the combined notice/APO includes all the
elements of both. Service is effective either by personal service or by
depositing the documents set forth herein in the U.S. mail. Any penalty
assessed in the APO shall continue to accrue until the violation is corrected
as provided in the corrective action notice and APO.
      (2)   Administrative penalty order (APO).
         (a)   Initial violation: the penalty for a landowner on a single
parcel that has not previously been the subject of an APO issued by the county
shall be:
            1.   $0 for 11 months after issuance of the corrective action
notice;
            2.   $50 per parcel per month for the first six months (180 days)
following the time period in subsection (F)(2)(a)1.; and
            3.   $200 per parcel per month after six months (180 days)
following the time period in subsection (F)(2)(a)2.
         (b)   Repeat violation: the penalty for a landowner on a single parcel
that has previously been the subject of an APO issued by the county shall be:
            1.   $50 per parcel per day for 180 days after issuance of the
corrective action notice; and
            2.   $200 per parcel per day for after 180 days following the time
period in subsection (F)(2)(b)1.
         (c)   Ongoing penalty assessment: any penalty assessed under this
section shall continue until the corrective action notice has been satisfied.
         (d)   To be valid, the APO shall include, at a minimum:
            1.   The facts constituting the violation of the riparian
protection and water quality practices requirements set forth in subsection (D)
or M.S. § 103F.48, as it may be amended from time to time;
            2.   The specific statute and/or ordinance section(s) that has/have
been violated;
            3.   A written description of prior efforts to work with the
landowner to resolve the violation;
            4.   The amount of the penalty to be imposed;
            5.   The date the penalty will begin to accrue;
            6.   The date that payment of the penalty is due;
            7.   The date by which all or part of the penalty may be forgiven
if the landowner has/have complied with the corrective action notice; and
            8.   A statement of the landowner’s right to appeal the APO.
         (e)   All or part of the penalty may be forgiven based on the
correction of the noncompliance by the date specified in the APO by the
landowner as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 7(d), as it may be amended from
time to time.
         (f)   A copy of the APO must be sent to the SWCD and BWSR.
         (g)   An APO issued under this subsection may be appealed to the BWSR
within 30 days of receipt by the landowner in accordance with the requirements
set forth in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time.
Any APO that is not appealed within the 30-day period shall be deemed final.
      (3)   Administrative penalty order procedures.
         (a)   Statute of limitations. According to M.S. § 541.07, as it may be
amended from time to time, the county has two years in which to commence an APO
action after the date the violation is discovered. The goal is to complete the
action as soon as reasonably practical, recognizing that situations for which
data must be gathered, field investigations must be completed and/or modeling
must be performed will require adequate time to complete the work and
communicate with the landowner involved.
         (b)   Compliance verification.
            1.   Once a landowner has submitted written evidence of correction
of the violation set forth in the notice of compliance, compliance must be
verified. The county will:
               a.   Review and evaluate all information related to the APO to
determine if the violation has been corrected;
               b.   Verify compliance by site visit, re-inspection, examination
of documentation or other means as may be reasonable under the facts of the
case; and
               c.   Document compliance verification.
            2.   The county may consult with the SWCD when conducting a
compliance verification.
         (c)   Right to appeal. Within 30 days after receipt of the APO, a
landowner may appeal the terms and conditions of an APO issued by a county to
BWSR as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to
time. The appeal must be in writing and must include a copy of the APO that is
being appealed, the basis for the appeal and any supporting evidence. The
appeal may be submitted personally, by U.S. mail, or electronically, to the
Executive Director of BWSR.
         (d)   Penalty due.
            1.   Unless the landowner appeals the APO as provided in subsection
(F)(3)(c), the penalty specified in the APO becomes immediately due and payable
to the county as set forth in the APO. If, however, the landowner submits
written documentation that the violations has been corrected prior to the time
the penalty becomes due and payable, the county shall verify compliance and
adjust the penalty to an amount the landowner would have owed had the penalty
been paid on the date the landowner submitted written documentation of
compliance. Written documentation of compliance may include a written
validation of compliance issued by the SWCD.
            2.   However, if the county determines the violation was not fully
corrected, the county shall notify the landowner by issuing a written letter of
determination and depositing it in the U.S. mail. Any determination sent by
U.S. mail shall be deemed received three business days after the letter of
determination has been deposited in the U.S. mail. The landowner shall have an
additional 20 days after receipt of the letter of determination to pay the
penalty or the time period specified in the APO as issued, whichever is later.
The penalty will continue to accrue until the violation is corrected as
provided in the corrective action notice and APO.
         (e)   Referral for collection of penalty. All penalties and interest
assessed under an APO must be paid by the landowner within the time specified
in this section. All payments shall be made payable to the county. Any penalty
or interest not received in the specified time may be collected by the county
using any lawful means.
         (f)   Reporting and documentation. The county shall maintain the
following records for any potential violation of the riparian protection and
water quality practices requirements. Said records shall include but are not
limited to the following:
            1.   The cause of the violation;
            2.   The magnitude and duration of the violation;
            3.   Documentation showing whether the violation presents an actual
or imminent risk to public health and safety;
            4.   Documentation showing whether the violation has the potential
to harm to the natural resources of the state;
            5.   A record of past violations;
            6.   Efforts by the SWCD, county, Watershed District or BWSR to
assist the responsible party or parties to become compliant, including written
and oral communications with the responsible party or parties; and
            7.   Past and present corrective action efforts by the responsible
party or parties.
(Ord. 126, passed 10-17-2017; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
ARTICLE 6: ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
6.01   Districts and district boundaries
   
6.02   Allowed and conditional land uses
   
6.03   Summary table of dimensional standards
   
6.04   County zoning map; entire county and area detail
   
6.05   General standards for agricultural and natural resource uses
   
6.06   Specific standards for animal agriculture (“feedlot ordinance”)
   
6.07   Specific standards for agricultural, natural resource and related uses
Agricultural Zoning Districts and Related Uses
   
6.08   A-1 Agricultural Protection District Standards
   
6.09   Transfer of development rights (TDR)
Residential Zoning Districts and Related Uses
   
6.10   General standards for Residential Districts
   
6.11   Specific standards for residential and related uses
   
6.12   Residential, institutional and civic uses off-street parking regulations
   
6.13   Specific standards for institutional and civic uses
   
6.14   LR Limited Residential District
Commercial and Industrial Zoning Districts and Related Uses
   
6.15   General standards for commercial and industrial uses
   
6.16   Specific standards for commercial and industrial uses
   
6.17   HC Highway Commercial District standards
   
6.18   HO Highway 14 Overlay District
   
6.19   I General Industrial District
Special Zoning Districts
   
6.20   UE Urban Expansion District standards
   
6.21   VMX Village Mixed Use District standards
   
6.22   SO Shoreland Overlay District standards
   
6.23   FO Floodplain Overlay District standards
   
6.24   AO Airport Overlay District standards
   
6.25   AIC Agricultural Interpretive Center District standards
   
6.26   Summary of allowed and conditional uses
   
6.27   CLR Closed Landfill Restricted District
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 6.01 DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Reclassification. The zoning districts established under the prior
zoning ordinance shall be reclassified as shown in the reclassification list
associated with the official zoning map.
   (B)   Establishment of districts and overlay zones. 
      (1)   Districts, overlay zones. In order to carry out the purpose and
intent of this ordinance, the unincorporated territory of the county is hereby
divided into the following zoning districts and overlay zones:
         (a)   A-1 Agricultural Protection District;
         (b)   LR Limited Residential District;
         (c)   UE Urban Expansion District;
         (d)   VMX Village Mixed Use District;
         (e)   HC Highway Commercial District;
         (f)   I General Industrial District;
         (g)   HO Highway 14 Overlay District;
         (h)   SO Shoreland Overlay District;
         (i)   FO Floodplain Overlay District;
         (j)   AO Airport Overlay District; and
         (k)   AIC Agricultural Interpretive Center District.
      (2)   Boundaries and official zoning map. The boundaries of zoning
districts and overlay zones are hereby established as shown on the official
zoning map of the unincorporated area of the county which maps and notations
and references and other matters shown thereon, shall be and are hereby made a
part of this ordinance.
   (C)   Electronic map. The official zoning map may be in hard copy or
electronic format or both as specified by a resolution of the Board of
Commissioners.
      (1)   Where filed. The official zoning map shall be filed in the office
of the County Planning and Zoning Department.
      (2)   Official signature. The official zoning map shall be identified by
the written or electronic signature of the Chairperson of the Board of
Commissioners, and attested by the County Auditor under the following words:
“This is to certify that this is the “official zoning map” referred to in §
6.01(C) of the county zoning ordinance, adopted on July 21, 2009.”
      (3)   Map amendments. If, in accordance with the rezoning and map
amendment provisions of §
3.03, changes are made in the district boundaries, the ordinance number and
date of the change shall be recorded by the Zoning Administrator on the
official zoning map.
      (4)   Replacement if destroyed. In the event that the official zoning map
becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or difficult to interpret because of use, the
Board of Commissioners may by resolution adopt a new official zoning map that
shall supersede the prior official zoning map. The new official zoning map may
correct drafting or other errors or omissions in the prior official zoning map;
provided, however, that any such adoption shall not have the effect of amending
the original zoning ordinance or any subsequent amendment thereof.
      (5)   Effect of vacated railroads, streets, roads, alleys and highways.
Whenever any railroad, street, road, alley or highway right-of-way is vacated
by official action as provided by law, the zoning districts adjoining the sides
of such public way shall be automatically extended to the center of the rights-
of-way, and the right-of-way thus vacated shall henceforth be subject to all
regulations of the extended district or districts.
   (D)   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries. In cases where the
exact location of the district boundary is not clear as shown on the official
zoning map, the following rules shall be used in determining the location of
the district boundary.
      (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys shall be construed to follow such centerlines.
      (2)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
      (3)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following city limits shall
be construed as following city limits.
      (4)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed
to be midway between the main tracks.
      (5)   Boundaries indicated as following shorelines shall be construed to
follow such shorelines, and in the event of change in the shorelines shall be
construed as moving with the actual shoreline. Boundaries indicated as
approximately following the centerlines of streams, rivers, canals, lakes or
other bodies of water shall be construed to follow such centerlines. If the
centerline changes, the boundary shall be construed as moving with the
centerline changes.
      (6)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to or extensions of features
indicated in subsections (D)(1) through (D)(5) above shall be so construed.
Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
      (7)   Where physical features existing on the ground differ from those
shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances not covered by
subsections (D)(1) through (D)(6) above, the Zoning Administrator shall
interpret the district boundaries.
   (E)   New territory. All territory which may hereafter become a part of the
unincorporated area of the county that is regulated by this ordinance, by the
dissolution of any city or severance of any part of a city, shall automatically
be classed as lying and being within the same zoning district as the adjacent
unincorporated land. If more than one zoning district is adjacent to the new
unincorporated area, the area shall automatically be classified as lying and
being within the A-1 Agricultural Protection District until such classification
shall have been changed by a rezoning and map amendment as provided for in §
3.03.
   (F)   Zoning districts dividing property/split zoning. Where one parcel of
property is divided into two or more portions by reason of different zoning
district classifications, each of these portions shall be used independently of
the others in its respective zoning classification and for the determination of
yard and density requirements.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.02 ALLOWED AND CONDITIONAL LAND USES.
    Table 6.10 in § 6.26 establishes the uses in the zoning districts within
the county. For the purposes of the table:
   (A)   Permitted uses. Uses specified with a “P” in Table 6.10 are permitted
as of right in the district or districts where designated, provided that the
use complies with all other applicable provisions of this ordinance. Certain
permitted uses are subject to the specific development standards of this
ordinance;
   (B)   Conditional uses. Any use lawfully established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, which is shown in Table 6.10 and designated with a “C”,
is allowed as a conditional use allowed in the district. A conditional use
under this ordinance may continue without specific approval by the Board of
Commissioners but is subject to the specific development standards of this
ordinance;
   (C)   Prohibited uses. Any use not listed as either “P” (permitted), “C”
(conditional) or a permitted accessory use within a particular district, or
found to a similar use as described below shall be prohibited in that district;
   (D)   Similar use. The Zoning Administrator may, upon written request, issue
a statement of clarification finding that a use is sufficiently similar to
another other use regulated in the zoning code. If the Zoning Administrator
determines a use is not similar, a property owner or contract purchaser may
make application for a determination of similar use as specified in §
3.03; and
   (E)   Accessory uses. Accessory uses shall be located on the same lot and
shall be associated with and incidental to an allowed principal use. Allowed
accessory uses are indicated in §
6.26 (under Table 6.10). In addition, accessory uses shall meet all the
following requirements.
      (1)   A mobile home shall not be an accessory use.
      (2)   Travel trailers, mobile homes, movable containers or similar
structures intended to be movable shall not be considered accessory structures.
   (F)   Temporary uses. The following temporary uses shall be permitted in all
zoning districts, except as otherwise specified below, provided such temporary
use or structure shall comply with the regulations of the zoning district in
which it is located and all other applicable regulations of this ordinance.
Special events and sales as listed below may require a special event permit, as
specified in §
3.09.
      (1)   Garage sales. Garage sales shall be limited to a total of ten days
of operation per calendar year at any residential location.
      (2)   Construction sites. Storage of building materials and equipment or
temporary buildings for construction purposes may be located on the site under
construction for the duration of the construction or a period of one year,
whichever is less. The Zoning Administrator may grant extensions to this time
limit for good cause shown.
      (3)   Amusement events. Temporary amusement events, including the
erection of tents for such events, may be allowed as a temporary use for a
maximum of 15 days per calendar year. In residential districts, such temporary
amusement events shall be located on institutional and public property only.
      (4)   Promotional activities, sales and display. Promotional activities
including indoor and/or outdoor sales and display may be allowed as a temporary
use in nonresidential districts for a maximum of 30 days per calendar year.
Such sales and display may also be conducted within a tent or other temporary
structure.
      (5)   Seasonal outdoor sale of agricultural products. The seasonal
outdoor sale of agricultural products, including but not limited to produce,
plants and Christmas trees, may be allowed as a temporary use. In no case,
however, shall the public right-of-way be utilized for the sale and display of
such items.
      (6)   Additional temporary uses and events. In addition to the temporary
uses and events listed above, the Zoning Administrator may allow other
temporary uses and events for a maximum of ten days per calendar year, provided
that the proposed temporary use or structure is similar to a temporary use or
event listed above.
   (G)   Temporary operation of equipment. The Zoning Administrator may grant
an interim use permit for temporary operation of equipment in any zoning
district in conjunction with highway construction or a similar public purpose.
Such operation may include a bituminous plant, ready mix plant, contractor’s
yard and similar uses.
      (1)   The use shall comply with all applicable federal, state and county
rules, regulations and ordinances.
      (2)   All equipment and temporary buildings shall meet the setbacks of
the underlying zoning district.
      (3)   The interim use permit shall contain a commencement and a
termination date and any other conditions deemed necessary and proper to
protect the surrounding properties.
      (4)   Any excavation of materials shall meet the standards of §
5.04 (“Stormwater Management and Sediment and Erosion Control”).
(Ord. 97, passed 7-29-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.03 SUMMARY TABLE OF DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   The following table offers examples of the dimension standards for several
zoning districts. The Agricultural Interpretive Center District (AIC) and
Shoreland Standards are not included in this table. Please refer to the
dimension standards included in the individual zoning districts as well as
other provisions, standards, regulations, requirements as contained in the
Unified Development Code, including, but not limited to, the development review
processes and requirements, general regulations, general environmental
regulations, conservation design, transfer of development rights and the like.
Table 6.2
          Agricultural Limited     Urban     Village   Highway      General
Table 6.2 A-1          Residential Expansion Mixed Use CommercialHC Industrial
                       LR          UE        VMX                    I
                          Limited     Urban     Village              General
Table 6.2    Agricultural Residential Expansion Mixed   Highway      Industrial
             A-1          LR          UE        Use     CommercialHC I
                                                VMX
             1 ac min
             buildable                          30,000
Minimum lot  top ground,              1 ac 2.5  sq ft2  NA           NA
area         5 ac max for             ac1       1 ac1
             sfd,
             3 ac min1
Standard                  1 ac
lots                      buildable
                          top ground
                          0.75 ac avg
                          buildable
Conservation              top ground
lots                      2.5 ac max
                          for sfd 2.5
                          ac min1
Minimum lot  100 ft2                  100 ft    75 ft   100 ft       100 ft
width
Standard                  150 ft
lots
Conservation              75 ft
lots
Front yard   75 ft        25 ft**     50 ft     35 ft3  50 ft        50 ft
setbacks
Standard                  40 ft
lots
Conservation              30 ft from
lots                      interior
                          road
Windbreak or 20 ft4, 15   20 ft4, 15  20 ft4,   20 ft4, 20 ft4, 15   20 ft4, 15
tree         ft5          ft5         15 ft5    15 ft5  ft5          ft5
Side yard    40 ft                    20 ft     20 ft   15 ft6       15 ft6
setbacks
Standard                  15 ft
lots
Conservation              10 ft
lots
Tree         20 ft        20 ft       20 ft     20 ft   20 ft        20 ft
Shrub        10 ft        10 ft       10 ft     10 ft   10 ft        10 ft
Rear yard    40 ft                    30 ft     30 ft   15 ft6       15 ft6
setbacks
Standard                  30 ft
lots
Conservation              25 ft
lots
Tree         20 ft        20 ft       20 ft     20 ft   20 ft        20 ft
Shrub        10 ft        10 ft       10 ft     10 ft   10 ft        10 ft
Accessory
structure    75 ft                    50 ft     35 ft   50 ft        50 ft
setbacks
Front-
standard                  40 ft
lots
Front-                    30 ft from
conservat                 interior
ion lots                  road
Side & rear  20 ft*       15 ft       20 ft
Maximum                   25%
impervious   None         (outside    25%       50%     65%          75%
coverage     Required     Shoreland
                          District)
Maximum      35 ft        35 ft       35 ft     35 ft   35 ft        70 ft
height
1Minimum lot size for permitted and conditional uses other than a single-family
dwelling
2County ISTS standards must be met
3Or within range of existing setbacks
4When public right-of-way is less than 100 feet in width
5When public right-of-way is greater than 100 feet in width
6The yard setback is 50 feet when adjacent to a residential or agricultural
district
7Agricultural buildings are exempt from height limitations, non-Ag buildings
not to exceed 2.5 stories or 35 feet height, whichever is greater
*An exemption to the side & rear yard setback requirement may be given for two
contiguous parcels, in the A-1 Agricultural Protection Zoning District, under
one ownership or owned by a family member based upon the definition of "FAMILY"
provided the owner(s) and family member(s) signs an affidavit that will be
recorded stating that they have no objection to an agricultural structure being
closer than the required 20 feet. All other requirements of this ordinance
shall be adhered to.
** Minimum front yard setback when a property is accessed via a private road.
 
(Ord. 97, passed 7-29-2009; Ord. 138, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 150, passed 5-3-
2022; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.04 COUNTY ZONING MAP; ENTIRE COUNTY AND AREA.
   The official zoning map, and any and all amendments thereto, are adopted by
reference and included in this code as fully as if set out at length herein. A
copy may be found in the office of the County Clerk.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 104.1, passed 6-21-2011; Ord. 116, passed 6-
17-2014)
§ 6.05 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR AGRICULTURAL AND NATURAL RESOURCE USES.
   (A)   Purpose. The standards in this section are established to provide
supplemental regulations to address the unique characteristics of certain land
uses.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards in this section apply to the uses listed
below within the zoning districts in which they are allowed, whether the uses
are permitted or conditional. The standards in this section shall apply in
addition to the general criteria for conditional uses in §
3.07, and all other applicable regulations.
   (C)   Exempted agricultural uses. It is not the intent of this section to
control uses that qualify for the farm exemption.
   (D)   Animal units. Table 6.3 shows the animal unit measures for common
agricultural animals.
Table 6.3 Animal Unit Equivalents
Animal Per Animal
Table 6.3 Animal Unit Equivalents
Animal                                                 Per Animal
One mature dairy cow over 1,000 pounds                 1.4 animal units
One dairy cow under 1,000 pounds                       1.0 animal units
One heifer                                             0.7 animal units
One calf (under 500 pounds)                            0.2 animal units
One slaughter steer or stock cow                       1.0 animal units
One feeder cattle                                      0.7 animal units
One cow and calf pair                                  1.2 animal units
One swine between 55 and 300 pounds                    0.3 animal units
One swine over 300 pounds                              0.4 animal units
One nursery pig under 55 pounds                        0.05 animal units
One horse                                              1.0 animal units
One sheep or lamb                                      0.1 animal units
One laying hen or broiler (using liquid manure system) 0.033 animal units
One chicken over 5 pounds (using dry manure system)    0.005 animal units
One chicken under 5 pounds (using dry manure system)   0.003 animal units
One turkey over 5 pounds                               0.018 animal units
One turkey under 5 pounds                              0.005 animal units
One duck                                               0.01 animal units
One goat                                               0.15 animal units
For any animal not appearing in the above chart, the average weight of the
animal divided by 1,000 pounds will determine its AU value.
 
   (E)   Preservation of farming practices (“right to farm”).
      (1)   Introduction and intention. It is the declared policy of this
county to enhance and encourage agricultural operations within the county.
         (a)   Where non-agricultural land uses extend into agricultural areas
or exist side by side, agricultural operations may be the subject of private
nuisance complaints that would result in the cessation or curtailment of
operations. Such actions discourage investments in farm improvements to the
detriment of adjacent agricultural uses and the economic viability of the
county’s agricultural industry as a whole.
         (b)   It is the purpose and intent of this section to reduce the loss
to the county of its agricultural resources by limiting the circumstances under
which agricultural operations may be considered a nuisance.
         (c)   Agricultural production that complies the requirements of this
ordinance shall not be considered by this county as constituting a nuisance.
         (d)   This ordinance is not to be construed as in any way modifying or
abridging the state statutes and rules, rather, it is only to be utilized in
the interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this code and county
regulations.
      (2)   Declaration. Agricultural operation is not a nuisance. An
agricultural operation, which continues without interruption or change, shall
not become a private nuisance if the operation was not a nuisance at its
established date of operation. The provisions of this subsection do not apply:
         (a)   To a condition or injury, which results from the negligent or
improper operation of an agricultural operation or from operations contrary to
commonly accepted agricultural practices;
         (b)   To applicable state or local laws, ordinances, rules or permits;
         (c)   When an agricultural operation causes injury or direct threat or
injury to the health or safety of any person; and
         (d)   To the pollution of, or change in the condition of, waters of
the state or the water flow of waters on the lands of any person; to an animal
feedlot facility of 1,000 or more animal units.
   (F)   The County Farmland Preservation Plan. The county’s Farmland
Preservation Plan, adopted by the Board of County Commissioners in 1987 shall
remain in effect and is hereby incorporated into this code by reference.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 105, passed 8-2-2011; Ord. 147, passed 8-3-
2021)
§ 6.06 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR ANIMAL AGRICULTURE (“FEEDLOT ORDINANCE”).
   (A)   Purpose. An adequate supply of healthy livestock, poultry and other
animals is essential to the well being of the county citizens and the state.
These domesticated animals provide our daily source of meat, milk, eggs and
fiber. Their efficient, economic production must be the concern of all
consumers if we are to have a continued abundance of high-quality, wholesome
food and fiber at reasonable prices. However, livestock, poultry and other
animals produce manure, which may, where improperly stored, transported or
disposed, negatively affect the county’s environment.
      (1)    The following regulations for the control of livestock, poultry,
other animal feedlots and manure application have been enacted to provide
protection to surface and ground water resources from manure and excess
nutrients, while also recognizing the irreplaceable qualities nutrients in
manure provide to soil and the overall importance livestock plays in the
production of agricultural crops.
      (2)   This ordinance provides for a cooperative program between the
county and the State Pollution Control Agency. Pollution prevention measures,
where deemed necessary by the Agency, should be individually designed and
developed to provide the site-specific controls needed for the operation in
question. Therefore, a joint county-state program is desirable because it will
ensure local involvement, minimize disruption to agricultural operations and
protect the environment. This ordinance complies with the policy and purpose of
the state in regard to the control of pollution as set forth in M.S. Chapters
115 and 116, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Adoption by reference of state regulations. Pursuant to M.S. § 394.25,
Subdivision 8, as it may be amended from time to time, the code adopts by
reference:
      (1)   Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Rules, Parts 7020.0100 through
7020.1900, Rules for the Control of Pollution from Animal Feedlots, as amended
from time to time; and
      (2)   M.S. § 169.88, as it may be amended from time to time. (Financial
liability of owner and/or operator of a vehicle that damages public roads).
   (C)   Provisions for new feedlots.
      (1)    Sites proposing to maintain ten or more animal units, or a manure
storage area capable of holding the manure produced by ten or more animal units
shall be defined as a feedlot and must meet the required feedlot setbacks.
      (2)   Permit requirements. A construction short form shall be required
for all new feedlots over 50 animal units.  
         (a)   A permit application shall be made available by the County
Feedlot Officer.
         (b)   The following information shall be included for application:
            1.   Names of all principal owners and operators and the signature
of at least one of the owners;
            2.   The legal name and business address of the facility, if
different than the owner;
            3.   The location of the facility by county, township, section and
quarter section;
            4.   Type of livestock and the maximum number of animal of each
animal type that can be confined within each lot, building or area at the
animal feedlot;
            5.   A list of all proposed manure storage areas, including plans
and specifications for proposed liquid manure storage areas and for permanent
stockpile sites;
            6.    The total number of animal units the facilities listed in
subsections (C)(2)(b)4. and (C)(2)(b)5. above will be capable of holding after
completing the construction;
            7.   The soil type or texture and depth to saturated soils at the
facility as identified in the USDA Soil Survey Manual or site-specific soils
investigation;
            8.   An aerial photograph showing the location of all wells,
buildings, surface tile intakes, lakes, rivers and watercourses within 1,000
feet of the proposed facility;
            9.   The number of acres available for land application of manure;
            10.   If applying for a NPDES/SDS permit or interim permit, a
manure management plan that meets the requirements under Minnesota Rules Part
7020.2225 subpart 4; and
            11.   If applying for an NPDES permit, a supplemental federal
application form.
         (c)    In addition to the requirements of subsections (C)(2)(b)1.
through (C)(2)(b)11. above, a permit application for an animal feedlot capable
of holding 1,000 animal units or more or a manure storage area capable of
holding the manure produced by 1,000 animal units or more must contain:
            1.   An air emission plan that includes:
               a.   Methods and practices that will be used to minimize air
emissions resulting from animal feedlot or manure storage area operations
including manure storage area start-up practices, loading and manure removal;
               b.   Measures to be used to mitigate air emissions in the event
of exceedance of the state ambient hydrogen sulfide standard; and
               c.   A complaint response protocol describing the procedures the
owner will use to respond to complaints directed at the facility, including:
                  i.   A list of each potential odor sources at the facility,
and a determination of the odor sources most likely to generate significant
amounts of odor; and
                  ii.   A list of anticipated odor control strategies for
addressing each of the significant odor sources.
            2.   An emergency response plan that includes a description of the
procedure that will:
               a.   Contain, minimize and manage an unauthorized discharge;
               b.   Provide notification to the proper authorities; and
               c.   Mitigate any adverse effect of an unauthorized discharge.
         (d)   Construction of any new livestock building or addition to an
existing livestock building must obtain a county zoning permit in addition to a
feedlot permit.
         (e)   New feedlots of 50 animal units or more shall obtain a
conditional use permit unless conditions of the County Feedlot Site Inspection
Team are implemented pursuant to subsection (E) below (“The County Feedlot Site
Inspection Team”) of this article. All sites 3,000 animal units or larger,
shall obtain these reviews: the County Feedlot Site Inspection Team inspection,
conditions and a conditional use permit from the County Board. The Site Team
conditions shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission and Board of
Commissioners for review when considering a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Notice of application.
         (a)   Public notice. Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2000, subpart 4
provides for notification of application procedures. When the County Feedlot
Officer receives an application or a person applies to the MPCA or the for a
permit to construct a feedlot resulting in a capacity of 500 animal units or
more shall, not later than ten business days after the application is
submitted, the county shall provide notice to each resident and each owner of
real property within 5,000 feet of the perimeter of the proposed feedlot.
Notification under this subsection is satisfied under an equal or greater
notification requirement of a county conditional use permit. The county shall
also give notice in the same manner to every township where the feedlot(s) will
be located. The county shall also give notice by first class mail to each
municipality within 5,000 feet of the perimeter of the proposed feedlot. The
notice may be delivered by first class mail, in person, or by the publication
in a newspaper of general circulation within the affected area and must include
the following:
            1.   The names of the owners or the legal name of the facility;
            2.   The location of the facility by county, township, section and
quarter section;
            3.   Species of livestock and total animal units;
            4.   Type of confinement buildings, lots and areas at the animal
feedlot; and
            5.   The types of manure storage.
         (b)   Government notification of proposed construction. An owner
proposing to construct or expand an animal feedlot or manure storage area shall
notify the government authorities listed in subparagraphs (C)(3)(b)1. and (C)
(3)(b)2. below:
            1.   The County Feedlot Officer or the Commissioner at least 30
days prior to commencement of construction of a new feedlot or manure storage
area;
            2.   All local zoning authorities, including county, township and
city zoning authorities, of the proposed construction or expansion at least 30
days prior to commencement of construction.
      (4)   Construction short-form issuance. All construction short-forms
expire within 24 months of the date of issuance. If the work for which a
construction short-form permit was issued is not complete upon expiration of
the permit, the expiration date of the permit may be extended by no more than
24 months if the owner complies with subparagraphs (C)(4)(a)and (C)(4)(b)
below:
         (a)   The facility is currently eligible for the same permit;
         (b)   The owner notifies the Commissioner or County Feedlot Officer at
least 90 days prior to the expiration of the permit. The notification shall
include:
            1.   The name of the owner, and the name of the facility if
different than the owner;
            2.   The permit number;
            3.   The reason the work may not be completed prior to the
expiration of the permit; and
            4.   The estimated amount of time required to complete the work;
         (c)    If the animal feedlot under construction will be capable of
holding 500 animal units or more or the manure storage area under construction
will be capable of holding the manure produced by 500 animal units or more when
completed shall be subject to the notification requirements as listed in
subsection (C)(3) above (“notice of application”), the notification must
include the date on which the original permit was issued and the new proposed
completion date.
         (d)   The County Feedlot Officer shall issue the construction short-
forms authorized by a delegation agreement between the State Pollution Control
Agency and the county.
         (e)   In order for the county to revoke a permit, a copy of the permit
together with a written justification for revocation must be submitted to the
Commissioner for review. The Commissioner shall, after receipt of the
justification for revocation by the county, review the matter within 60 days to
determine compliance with the provisions of applicable Agency rules. The county
must receive written approval of the permit revocation from the Agency prior to
taking action. Where a revocation has been approved by the Agency, the
applicant must be informed in writing by the county of the reasons for
revocation and the applicant shall retain all rights of appeal set out in
Minnesota Rules Chapter 7001. Revocation without re-issuance of the permit must
follow the requirements under part 7001.0180.
         (f)   In the case of a denial of a permit application by the County
Feedlot Officer, the applicant shall be informed by the county in writing of
the reasons for denial and shall be informed of applicable appeal procedures.
The applicant shall retain all rights of fundamental fairness afforded by law
and the applicant may make an appeal to the Agency to review the county’s
action. Such a denial by a county shall be without prejudice to the applicant’s
right to an appearance before the
         (g)   Agency to request a public hearing or to file a further
application after revisions are made to meet objections specified as reasons
for denial. The Agency shall approve, suspend, modify or reverse the denial of
a permit if the matter has been appealed to the Agency.
         (h)   No circumvention. An owner who obtains a construction short-form
is subject to enforcement action for construction or operation without a permit
if the Commissioner or County Feedlot Officer later determines that the animal
feedlot or a manure storage area does not qualify for the construction short-
form that was issued and that the owner is required to apply for and obtain an
SDS or NPDES permit.
      (5)   Manure management plans for new feed lots. New feedlots shall be
required to submit a Manure Management Plan to the county demonstrating how the
applicant proposes to mitigate all potential pollution problems.
      (6)   Manure transported into the county. Manure from out of county
sources may be used as a domestic fertilizer in the county when applied at
agronomic rates.
      (7)   Environmental assessment worksheet. Minnesota Rules Chapter 4410,
state that a mandatory EAW is required for:
         (a)   Construction of a new feedlot having 1,000 animal units or more
by State Animal Unit standards;
         (b)   Expansion of an existing feedlot by 1,000 animal units or more
by State Animal Unit standards;
         (c)   Expansion of an existing feedlot by more than 500 animal units
by State Animal Unit Standards in a sensitive area as defined in Minnesota
Rules Chapter 4410; and/or
         (d)   A petition to request an EAW can be submitted to the EQB for a
discretionary EAW for a feedlot that meets the minimum requirements of
Minnesota Rules Part 4410.4600 Subpart 19 by interested parties obtaining 25
signatures for the request.
      (8)   Manure storage structures and associated livestock feedlot
setbacks. Manure storage structures and associated livestock feedlot setbacks
(see Table 6.4 following page).
      (9)   Maximum animal units. A maximum of 5,000 animal units may be
allowed for all new feedlots.
      (10)   Municipalities. New animal feedlots are prohibited from locating
2,640 feet or less from an incorporated municipality. New animal feedlots
located greater than 2,640 feet and less than or equal to 5,280 feet shall
obtain the County Feedlot Site Inspection Team inspection recommendation and a
conditional use permit from the County Board.
Table 6.4 Manure Storage Structures and Associated Feedlot Setbacks
Land Use or Feature Distance (feet)
Table 6.4 Manure Storage Structures and Associated Feedlot Setbacks
Land Use or Feature                          Distance (feet)
Airport (FAA approved)                       2,640
An existing feedlot under separate ownership 500
A residence (other than feedlot owner/       1,000
applicant)
Cemeteries3                                  500
Churches2                                    1,000
Golf courses, private or public4             1,000
Incorporated municipality5                   2,640
Parks1                                       1,000
Property line (side yards, rear yard)        50
Public roads (measured from centerline of    300
road)
Shoreland: lakes (measured from OHWL)        1,000
Shoreland: river, stream, drainage ditch
(public or private- measured from ordinary
high water level)
Well, private                                As regulated by MN Dept. of Health
Well, public                                 As regulated by MN Dept. of Health
Wetlands: Type I-VIII                        300
New feedlots and new manure storage structures are prohibited within 1,000 feet
of the OHWL of a lake or within 300 feet of the OHWL of a stream or river. New
feedlots and new manure storage structures are also prohibited in floodplain,
floodway, bluff impact zones and abandoned rock quarries.
1Parks subject to the above listed setback: from any park maintained or owned
by an incorporated municipality and from the following four county parks:
Courthouse Park, Gooselake Park, Ray Eustice Park and Blowers Park.
2CHURCH defined as a building used as a church, synagogue or place of worship
with regular scheduled services.
3CEMETERY defined as follows: a cemetery governed by a cemetery association,
local government or congregation of worshipers.
4Public and private golf course setback shall be measured from the nearest
point of the feedlot to the nearest point of any maintained and established
golf fairway or green at the time of feedlot permit application.
5Incorporated municipalities are the cities of Elysian, Janesville, New
Richland, Waldorf and Waseca.
New feedlots shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any dwelling, school,
church, platted subdivision and/or public park, except for dwelling of the
property owner or feedlot operator, or family member based upon the definition
of “family” provided the owner of the dwelling and family member, signs a
statement that will be recorded stating that they have no objection to the
feedlot being closer than the required 1,000 feet. This exception to the 1,000-
foot setback is limited to family members to current owner and all other
setback requirements shall be adhered to. All family-related feedlots shall be
considered separate feedlots in terms of permitting but shall be considered as
one feedlot in terms of animal unit limits in accordance with the feedlot
ordinance.
 
   (D)   Provisions for existing feedlots, including modification and
expansion. (The provisions of this subsection (D) apply to existing feedlots.)
      (1)   Registration requirements.
         (a)   Sites required to register. Sites with ten or more animal units,
or a manure storage area capable of holding the manure produced by ten or more
animal units shall be required to register with the County Feedlot Officer as a
feedlot and meet required setbacks.
         (b)   Initial registration schedule and requirements. Owners required
to register shall comply with at least one of the following:
            1.   The owner shall submit a completed registration form supplied
by the County Feedlot Officer; or
            2.   The owner shall submit a completed permit application to the
County Feedlot Officer.
         (c)   Owners shall update their registrations at least once during the
four-year registration window prior to the registration update deadline, as
defined by the County Feedlot Officer.
         (d)   Other. An existing feedlot proposing an expansion of 100 animal
units or more or a change in operation as determined by the Feedlot Officer
must obtain a conditional use permit. A conditional use permit would not be
required if the County Feedlot Site Inspection Team conditions are implemented
pursuant to subsection (E) below (The County Feedlot Site Inspection Team”) of
this article. All sites 3,000 animal units or larger shall obtain County
Feedlot Site Inspection Team inspection and a conditional use permit.
      (2)   Permit requirements. Four types of permits are required under this
ordinance, Minnesota Rules Chapters 7020 and 7001: interim permits,
construction short form permits, SDS permits and NPDES permits. The owner shall
apply for a permit as follows:
         (a)   An NPDES permit for the construction and operation of animal
feedlot that meets the criteria for CAFO;
         (b)   Unless required to apply for a permit under paragraph (D)(2)(a)
above, an SDS permit under the following conditions:
            1.   The construction and operation of animal feedlot or manure
storage area that has been demonstrated not to meet the criteria for CAFO and
is capable of holding 1,000 or more animal units or the manure produced by
1,000 or more animal units;
            2.   The facility does not comply with all applicable requirements
of Minnesota Rules, Parts 7020.2000 to 7020.2225 and the pollution hazard
cannot be or has not been, corrected under the conditions in Minnesota Rules
Part 7020.0535 applicable to interim permits;
            3.   The owner is proposing to construct or operate a new
technology. An SDS permit is required for new technology operational methods
while these operational methods are employed; or
            4.   The facility is one for which conditions or requirements other
than those in Minnesota Rules, Parts 7020.2000 to 7020.2225 were assumed:
               a.   As a mitigation measure in an environmental impact
statement; or
               b.   In obtaining a negative declaration in an environmental
assessment worksheet.
         (c)   Unless required to obtain a permit under paragraphs (D)(2)(a)
and (D)(2)(b) above, an interim permit for:
            1.   Facilities identified as a pollution hazard; or
            2.   An animal feedlot or a manure storage area with a capacity of
50 or more animal units in a non-shoreland area or ten or more animal units in
shoreland prior to applying manure or process wastewater:
               a.   On land where the soil phosphorus test levels exceed the
levels:
                  i.   Fields in special protection areas or within 300 feet of
a tile intake that have an average soil phosphorus test level exceeding 75 PPM
Bray or 60 PPM Olsen; and
                  ii.   Fields outside the special protection areas and more
than 300 feet from open tile intakes that have an average soil phosphorus test
level exceeding 150-PPM Bray or 120-PPM Olsen.
               b.   On land in special protection areas with slopes exceeding
6%; or
               c.   In a drinking water supply management area where the
aquifer is designated vulnerable under Minnesota Rules Chapter 4720.
      (3)   Other permit provisions. Unless required to obtain a permit under
paragraphs (D)(2)(a) through (D)(2)(c) above, a construction short-form permit
for an animal feedlot or manure storage area proposing to construct or expand
to a capacity of 50 animal units or more in a non-shoreland area or ten or more
animal units in a shoreland area; however, if a facility is determined to be a
pollution hazard and the owner is proposing to expand to expand to a capacity
of 50 animal units or more in a non-shoreland area or ten or more animal units
in a shoreland area the owner shall apply for an interim permit under item (D)
(2)(c). An owner issued an interim permit that authorizes construction for an
expansion shall not stock the expansion prior to fulfillment of all permit
conditions related to the correction of the pollution hazard for which the
interim permit was issued.
      (4)   Manure transported into the county. Manure from out of county
sources may be used as a domestic fertilizer in county if applied at agronomic
rates.
      (5)   Environmental assessment worksheet. Minnesota Rules, Chapter 4410
state that a mandatory EAW is required for:
         (a)   Construction of a new animal feedlot having 1,000 animal units
or more by State Animal Unit standards;
         (b)   Expansion of an existing feedlot by 1,000 animal units or more
by State Animal Unit standards;
         (c)   Expansion of existing feedlot by more than 500 animal units, by
State Animal Units standards, in a sensitive area as defined in Minnesota
Rules, Chapter 4410; or
         (d)   A petition requesting and EAW can be submitted to the EQB for a
discretionary EAW for a feedlot, that meets the minimum requirements of
Minnesota Rules, Part 4410.4600 Subpart 19, by interested parties obtaining 25
signatures for the request.
      (6)   Maximum animal units. No feedlot shall have more than 5,000 animal
units. An existing animal feedlot or manure storage area located within
shoreland may not expand to a capacity of 1,000 animal units or more. An
existing animal feedlot or manure storage structure in a shoreland shall not
locate any portion of the expanded animal feedlot or manure storage structure
area closer to the ordinary high water level than any existing portion of the
animal feedlot or the manure storage area.
      (7)   Municipalities. Existing feedlots located within 5,280 feet of an
incorporated municipality shall be considered a permitted use. For the purposes
of this provision, an existing feedlot shall not be considered substandard if
the only deficiency is the feedlots improper setback from the municipality. Any
feedlot that is located within 2,600 feet which is abandoned or which is
discontinued for a period of five years may not be resumed. An expansion of 200
animal units or less is allowed over the lifetime of a feedlot regardless of
ownership change within 5,280 feet of an incorporated municipality. Expansion
greater than 200 animal units is allowed within 5,280 feet of an incorporated
municipality after written notice to the affected city government and upon
obtaining a conditional use permit or complying with the provisions in
subsection (E) below (“The County Feedlot Site Inspection Team”).
      (8)   Substandard use feedlots.
         (a)   Continuance. A substandard feedlot may continue but additional
livestock confinement buildings, pits, slurry stores, lagoon systems or earthen
storage basins must comply with this ordinance.
         (b)   Discontinued or abandoned. Any feedlot which is abandoned or
which is discontinued for a period of five years may not be resumed, and any
future use or occupancy of the land shall conform to this ordinance.
         (c)   Moving. A building or structure moved to a different location on
a single parcel of land shall be brought into conformance with this ordinance.
         (d)   Damage or destruction. When a substandard feedlot is destroyed
by fire or other peril to the extent of 50% of its market value, as determined
by the County Assessor, any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises
shall conform to this ordinance.
         (e)   Restoration and repair. A substandard feedlot may be restored or
repaired as follows:
            1.   To comply with state law and county ordinances;
            2.   If damaged to extent less than 50% of its market value as
determined by the County Assessor; and
            3.   To effect repairs and necessary maintenance which are non-
structural and incidental to the use or occupancy, provided such repairs dot no
constitute more than 50% of its market value as determined by the County
Assessor.
      (9)   Notice of application.
         (a)   Public notice. Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2000, subpart 4
provides for notification of application procedures. A person who applies to
the MPCA or the County Feedlot Officer for a permit to construct or expand a
feedlot resulting in a capacity of 500 animal units or more shall, not later
than ten business days after the application is submitted, provide notice to
each resident and each owner of real property within 5,000 feet of the
perimeter of the proposed feedlot.
            1.   The notice may be delivered by first class mail, in person, or
by the publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the affected
area and must include the following:
               a.   The names of the owners or the legal name of the facility;
               b.   The location of the facility by county, township, section
and quarter section;
               c.   Species of livestock and total animal units;
               d.   Type of confinement buildings, lots and areas the animal
feedlots; and
               e.   The type of manure storage
            2.   Notification under this subsection (D)(9) is satisfied under
an equal or greater notification requirement of a county conditional use
permit. An applicant shall also give notice in the same manner to every
township where the feedlot(s) will be located. An applicant shall also give
notice by first class mail to every municipality within 5,000 feet of the
perimeter of the proposed feedlot.
         (b)   Government notification. An owner proposing to construct or
expand an animal feedlot or manure storage area shall notify the government
authorities listed in paragraphs (D)(9)(b)1. and (D)(9)(b)2. below:
            1.   The County Feedlot Officer or the Commissioner at least 30
days prior to commencement of construction or expansion of an animal feedlot or
manure storage area; and
            2.   All local zoning authorities, including county, town, and city
zoning authorities, of the proposed construction or expansion at least 30 days
prior to commencement of construction.
      (10)   Construction short-form issuance. The requirements and procedures
for a construction short-form issuance shall be the same as described in
subsection (C)(1) above (“Permit Requirements” and subsection (C)(3) above)
(“Construction Short Form Issuance”).
      (11)   Interim permit issuance.
         (a)   The County Feedlot Officer may issue, deny, modify, impose
conditions upon, or revoke interim permits for animal feedlots smaller than
1,000 animal units where animal manure is used as a domestic fertilizer and
with a potential pollution hazard which will be mitigated by corrective or
protective measures within 24 months of the date of the issuance of the interim
permit.
         (b)   These permits shall be issued, denied, modified, have conditions
imposed upon them, or revoked in conformance with the following requirements:
            1.   In order for the county to revoke an interim permit, a copy of
the interim permit together with a written justification for revocation must be
submitted to the Commissioner for review. The Commissioner shall, after receipt
of the justification for revocation by the county, review the matter within 60
days to determine compliance with the provisions of applicable agency rules.
The county must receive written approval of the interim permit revocation from
the agency prior to taking action. Where a revocation has been approved by the
agency, the applicant must be informed in writing by the County of the reasons
for revocation and the applicant shall retain all rights of appeal set out in
Minnesota Rules Part 7020.1700; and
            2.   In the case of a denial of an interim permit application by
the county, the applicant shall be informed by the county in writing of the
reasons for denial and shall be informed of applicable appeal procedures. The
applicant shall retain all rights of fundamental fairness afforded by law and
the applicant may make an appeal to the agency to review the county’s action.
Such a denial by a county shall be without prejudice to the applicant’s right
to an appearance before the agency to request a public hearing or to file a
further application after revisions are made to meet objections specified as
reasons for denial. The agency shall approve, suspend, modify or reverse the
denial of an interim permit if the matter has been appealed to the agency.
      (12)   New residence.
         (a)    New residences, when constructed on a parcel where no current
residence exists, shall be set back at least 1,000 feet from an existing
feedlot. A replacement residence (meaning the current residence shall be
destroyed or permanently removed from the existing location) may reconstruct
without variance if the replacement residence is set back greater than or equal
to the current residence, pursuant to §
1.09.
         (b)   New feedlots, when constructed on a parcel where no current
feedlot exists, shall be set back at least 1,000 feet from an existing
residence. A replacement feedlot, meaning the current feedlot was destroyed by
an act of God, may reconstruct without variance if the replacement feedlot is
constructed on the existing foundation, at the same square footage, at the same
animal type, and at the same or less animal units.
         (c)   The Board of Adjustment may grant a variance from these
requirements in compliance with M.S. § 394.27, as it may be amended from time
to time, and this ordinance.
      (13)   Setbacks. The minimum setback requirements for existing feedlots
or existing manure storage structures shall be the same as described in Table
6.4 Manure Storage Structures and Associated Feedlot Setbacks.
   (E)   The County Feedlot Site Inspection Team.
      (1)   Intent. Feedlot site locations are one of the most important
decisions facing feedlot owners, neighbors and local governments. New feedlots
of 50 animal units or more and existing feedlots proposing an expansion of 100
animal units or more or a change in operation as determined by the Feedlot
Officer shall require a site inspection prior to issuance of any feedlot
permits. To assist in the early and careful consideration of sites, a team
approach to site inspection and selection is a desirable way to provide a wide
range of information to ensure that permit applicants will select a site that
is both economically and environmentally suitable. The expertise of a site
inspection team is intended for the benefit and convenience of permit
applicants and for the early notification to neighbors. Conditions of the
County Feedlot Site inspection Team (“Feedlot Site inspection Team”) are
intended to save time and money during the permitting process and to enhance
goodwill between neighbors by alerting applicants to possible concerns of
neighboring residents and communities.
      (2)   Feedlot site inspection team. The Feedlot Site Inspection Team
(site team) shall consist of the following individuals or a designee from their
office or agency:
         (a)   County Feedlot Officer;
         (b)   County Commissioner of the affected District;
         (c)   County Engineer;
         (d)   County Land and Water Resources Watershed Coordinator;
         (e)   County Land and Water Resources Director;
         (f)   Waseca Soil Water Conservation District Manager; and
         (g)   Township Officer of the affected Township.
      (3)   Jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the feedlot site inspection team
shall include all lands in the county, excepting those located within
incorporated cities.
      (4)   Duties. The Feedlot Site Inspection Team shall be required to
conduct a site inspection of any proposed new feedlot of 50 animal units or
more. Site inspection shall be conducted for an existing feedlot proposing an
expansion of 100 animal units or more or a change in operation as determined by
the Feedlot Officer. The Feedlot Officer shall establish a meeting date and
time for an onsite inspection with the feedlot owner/operator within 30 days of
notification of the feedlot owner/operator’s intent for any new construction or
expansion when a site inspection is required. The County Feedlot Officer shall
execute notification to the Feedlot Site Inspection Team.
         (a)   The Feedlot Officer shall, not later than ten days before the
site inspection, provide notice by mail of the time and date of the site
inspection to each property owner within one mile of the proposed feedlot.
         (b)   A minimum of four Feedlot Inspection Team members shall conduct
the feedlot inspection.
            1.   The Feedlot Site Inspection Team shall provide to the owner/
operator written conditions regarding setbacks, locational concerns, drainage
concerns, potential pollution hazard concerns, or the need for vegetative
screening or any other technical information deemed necessary. The Feedlot
Officer shall in writing list all conditions of the Site Inspection Team on a
document entitled “County Feedlot Site inspection Team Conditions”. If during
the process of a site inspection, a consensus cannot be obtained, amongst the
site team members in attendance regarding the “site team conditions” the
applicant shall be required to apply for a conditional use permit. The Site
Team reserves the right to require the applicant to obtain a conditional use
permit for any site it may inspect. A copy of this document shall be given to
the owner/operator for review. The Feedlot Site Inspection Team Conditions
shall be kept on file in the office of the County Feedlot Officer for public
inspection and/or reproduction.
            2.   To obtain a construction short-form or interim permit from the
county, the following procedures apply: The owner operator will have two
options. The owner/operator may either implement all conditions of the Feedlot
Site Inspection Team as a condition of receiving a construction short-form or
choose not to implement the conditions. Any owner/operator choosing not to
comply with all conditions of the Feedlot Site Inspection Team shall only be
granted a construction short-form after receiving a conditional use permit from
the County Board and complying with all other provisions of this ordinance and
all conditions set forth in the conditional use permit.
            3.   If the owner/operator agrees to follow the site team
conditions, rather than obtain a conditional use permit, the owner/operator
shall sign the “County Feedlot Site Inspection Team Conditions” document,
notarized by a notary public, acknowledging that the owner/operator understands
the conditions and will abide by the conditions as a condition of being issued
a construction short-form or an interim permit. Any construction short-form or
interim Permit thereafter given to the owner/operator shall be conditioned upon
compliance with all the conditions of the site team. Any failure to comply with
the site team conditions shall be deemed a violation of this ordinance and the
owner/operator shall be subject to any or all of the violation and enforcement
procedures of §
7.04, Violations and Penalties and Article 7 of this ordinance.
            4.   Any construction short-form or interim permit issued with site
team conditions shall be binding on any future owner/operator of the same
feedlot. Any new construction short-form or interim permit issued to the same
or different owner/operator shall contain the written conditions originally
issued by the County Feedlot Site Inspection Team.
            5.   State permits: if the state issues a NPDES, SDS or interim
permit, the following procedures shall be followed: The owner/operator shall
either obtain a conditional use permit or agree to comply with the site team
conditions. Any zoning permit issued by county relating to the NPDES, SDS or
interim permit shall be conditioned on future compliance with the site team
conditions. Failure by the owner/operator to comply with the conditions of the
site team shall require the owner/operator to obtain a conditional use permit.
Failure to obtain a conditional use permit shall be deemed a violation of this
ordinance and the owner/operator shall be subject to any or all of the
violation and enforcement procedures of subsection (J) below and Article 7 of
this ordinance.
            6.   If a conditional use hearing is required, a copy of the
written conditions of the Feedlot Site Inspection team shall be submitted for
review by the Planning Commission and the Board of Commissioners. The Planning
Commission shall hold at least one public hearing on each application for a
conditional use permit prior to any final decision of the County Board.
Conditional use permit procedures shall be followed as defined in this
ordinance.
            7.   Following the closing of the public hearing and the
formulation of the Planning Commission’s recommendations, the County Feedlot
Officer shall report the findings and recommendations of the Planning
Commission to the County Board at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The
County Board shall approve, deny or return to the Planning Commission the
conditional use permit application.
   (F)   Manure application.
      (1)   Sufficient land.
         (a)   The feedlot permit holder shall own or have sufficient
additional land under lease or contract to meet the manure utilization
requirements for spreading of manure produced in the feedlot. The Feedlot
Officer shall retain copies of all written spreading agreements. No more than
one manure spreading agreement shall be allowed on a parcel of land. The
agreement shall be valid for a period of not less than three years and recorded
with the Feedlot Officer. The agreement shall include a brief description and a
map of the spreading area.
         (b)   Manure sold under a sales contract for land application of
manure may be substituted for the additional land requirement for the feedlot
subject to such additional standards, as the state shall require. Manure sold
under a sales contract shall be subject to the requirements of this ordinance
including all land application, storage standards, setback requirements and
application rates.
         (c)   Upon termination of a written manure spreading agreement or
manure sold under sales contract, a feedlot owner/operator shall provide the
Feedlot Officer with written proof that sufficient new land is owned or under
lease or contract to meet the manure utilization requirement for spreading of
manure produced in the feedlot.
      (2)   Commercial manure applicators. All persons who own and/or operate a
manure applicator for hire shall abide by all land application procedures
established by this ordinance and any other applicable statute or rule.
      (3)   Avoid water pollution. When applying manure to land:
         (a)   Manure shall not be applied in such a manner as to allow manure
to enter waters of the state during the process of applying manure;
         (b)   Manure application into road ditches is prohibited; and
         (c)   Manure shall not be applied in such a manner that will cause
pollution of waters of the state due to runoff of liquid manure or runoff of
precipitation or snowmelt containing manure.
      (4)   Manure nutrient testing requirements. Manure must be tested by the
owner/operator for nitrogen and phosphorus content from all manure storage
structures and stockpiling sites holding manure generated from more than 100
animal units according to the following terms.
         (a)   The manure must initially be tested at a frequency adequate to
define the approximate range in nutrient content associated with different
climatic conditions, manure storage locations, livestock types and livestock
feed.
         (b)   Manure must be tested during subsequent years following
significant changes in climatic conditions, manure storage and handling,
livestock types or livestock feed.
         (c)   Ongoing manure nutrient testing must continue at a frequency of
no less than once every four years.
         (d)   The nutrient analysis must be conducted using MPCA approved
methods.
      (5)   Nitrogen application-rate standards. Manure application rates must
be limited at all locations where manure is applied so that the estimated plant
available nitrogen from all nitrogen sources does not exceed expected crop
nitrogen uptake.
         (a)   Expected crop nitrogen uptake rates shall be based on rate
tables provided by the Commissioner.
         (b)   Plant available nitrogen estimates may deviate up to 20% from
MPCA estimates where warranted by site-specific conditions. Deviations by more
that 20% of MPCA estimates of this section will require approval by the MPCA
Commissioner or County Feedlot Officer.
         (c)   Nitrogen sources include commercial fertilizer nitrogen, soil
organic matter nitrogen, irrigation water nitrogen, legumes grown during
previous years and current and previous years manure applied during the current
year and previous years.
      (6)   Phosphorus application-rate standards. The amount of phosphorus
applied as a result of the land application of manure shall be limited to the
following conditions.
         (a)   When surface applying manure without incorporating within 48
hours, the manure application rate must be limited so that the estimated plant
available phosphorus provided by manure does not exceed five times the expected
crop phosphorus uptake for any one-year period, unless otherwise authorized by
the Commissioner or delegated County Feedlot Officer. Expected crop phosphorus
uptake rates and plant available phosphorus from manure are to be based on
tables provided by the Commissioner.
         (b)   Manure applied to land in special protection areas shall comply
with the phosphorus requirement as described in subsection (F)(9) below
entitled “Application requirements for land within special protection areas”.
      (7)   Manure Management Plan requirements.
         (a)   A Manure Management Plan shall be included as part of the permit
application whenever an owner or operator of a feedlot applies to the
Commissioner or County Feedlot Officer for a construction short-form or an
interim permit, or an NPDES/SDS permit for an operation with 100 or more animal
units (AU), or when manure from a feedlot capable of holding 300 or more AU is
applied for after January 1, 2006 by someone other than a certified animal
waste technician.
         (b)   The Manure Management Plan must be reviewed by the feedlot owner
or operator each year and adjusted for any changes in the amount of manure
production, manure nutrient test results, crop rotations or other practices
which affect the available nutrient amounts or crop nutrient needs on fields
receiving manure.
         (c)   The Manure Management Plan shall be on file at the feedlot
facility and made available to MPCA staff or County Feedlot Officer on request
unless required to be submitted as part of the permit application.
         (d)   The Manure Management Plan shall contain:
            1.   A description of the manure storage/handling system;
            2.   Application methods and equipment and expected nitrogen losses
during application;
            3.   Field locations and acreage available for applying manure;
            4.   Manure nutrient testing methods;
            5.   Planned manure application rates and assumptions used to
determine these rates;
            6.   Total manure nitrogen and phosphorus rates to be applied on
each field and for each crop in the rotation;
            7.   Expected first-, second- and third-year plant available
nutrients from manure;
            8.   Expected months of application;
            9.   A description of protective measures to minimize the risk of
off-field manure transport when applying manure on floodplains or soil within
300 feet of:
               a.   Lakes;
               b.   Streams including intermittent streams;
               c.   Uncultivated wetlands;
               d.   Surface tile intakes;
               e.   Sinkholes without constructed diversions;
               f.   Drainage ditches; and
               g.   Protective measures may be associated with, but are not
limited to, soil and water conservation measures, timing of application,
methods of application, manure rates and frequency of application.
            10.   For application onto frozen or snow covered soil the plan
shall include the following information about the fields which may receive the
manure:
               a.   Field location;
               b.   Soil slopes;
               c.   Proximity of fields to surface waters;
               d.   Proximity of fields to channels leading to surface waters;
               e.   Expected months of application for each field; and
               f.   Tillage and other conservation measures used to minimize
risk of off-field manure transport.
            11.   When ownership of manure is to be transferred for application
to fields not owned or leased by the producer, the facility, which produced the
manure, shall include in a Manure Management Plan:
               a.   The expected volume or weight of manure to be produced
annually; and
               b.   The manure nutrient content.
            12.   A description of how phosphorus from manure is to be managed
to minimize continued increase of soil phosphorus levels when soil test P
values are 21-PPM Bray P1 or 16-PPM Olsen;
            13.   A description of how phosphorus from manure is to be managed
to minimize phosphorus transport to surface waters resulting from soil
phosphorus buildup to levels in special protection areas: 75-PPM Bray P1 or 60-
PPM Olsen; or in fields outside special protection areas: 150-PPM Bray P1 or
120-PPM Olsen;
            14.   Plans for soil nitrate testing in accordance with University
of Minnesota Extension Service recommendations; and
            15.   Type of cover crop to be planted when manure is to be applied
in June, July or August to fields that have been harvested and would otherwise
not have active growing crops for the remainder of the growing season.
      (8)   Record-keeping.
         (a)   Records of manure application shall be kept on file by the
manager of the cropland where the manure is applied:
            1.   For the most recent six years for manure application within
300 feet of lakes, streams, intermittent streams, public waters, wetlands and
drainage ditches with side inlets or no berms; and
            2.   For the most recent three years on land not defined by the
terms of subsection (F)(8)(a)1. above.
         (b)   Records shall contain the following information:
            1.   Field locations and actual acreage where manure is applied;
            2.   Volume or weight of manure applied on each field;
            3.   Manure test nitrogen and phosphorus content, as required under
subsection (F)(4) above (“manure nutrient testing requirements”);
            4.   Dates of application;
            5.   Dates of incorporation when incorporating within ten days;
            6.   Expected plant available amounts of nitrogen and phosphorus
released from manure, legumes and commercial fertilizers on each field which
manure is applied;
            7.   A description of deviations from the manure management plan
and reasons for the changes; and
            8.   Soil nutrient test results.
         (c)   Where manure is transferred for application to fields not owned
or leased by the facility, which produced the manure, the facility, which
produced the manure, shall meet the following requirements:
            1.   The manure records for the most recent three years shall be
kept on file;
            2.   The manure records shall contain the following information:
               a.   The volumes or weight of manure delivered;
               b.   The nutrient content of the manure delivered; and
               c.   The name and address of the buyer of the manure.
            3.   A written copy of MPCA manure application requirements and the
information listed in subsection (F)(8)(c)2. above shall be given by the
provider of the manure to the purchaser or receiver of the manure.
         (d)   The manager of the cropland, which has received transferred
manure, shall keep records of the information listed in subsection (F)(8)(b)
above.
      (9)   Application requirements for land within special protection areas.
         (a)   Manure may not be applied to frozen or snow-covered land within
300 feet of all lakes, streams, public waters wetlands, drainage ditches and
intermittent streams except where conditions as described in paragraph (F)(9)
(c) below apply.
         (b)   Manure applied to unfrozen soils within 300 feet from a lake,
stream, public waters, wetlands, intermittent stream, or drainage ditch with
side inlets or no berm, shall meet either the terms of paragraph (F)(9)(b)1. or
the terms of (F)(9)(b)2. listed below except where conditions as described in
paragraph (F)(9)(c) below apply.
            1.   Maintain a non-manured buffer that:
               a.   Is not pastured;
               b.   Is permanently-grassed; and
               c.   Is a minimum of 100 feet wide along lakes and perennial
streams and 50 feet wide along intermittent streams, public waters, wetlands
and drainage ditches with side inlets or no berms.
            2.   Comply with all of the following practices:
               a.   Manure shall not be applied within at least 25 feet of the
water body or channel;
               b.   Manure shall be injected or incorporated within 24 hours of
being land applied and prior to rainfall; and
               c.   Manure shall be applied at a rate which will not allow soil
phosphorus levels to increase over any six-year period, unless soil testing
indicates that soil phosphorus levels are below crop phosphorus needs.
         (c)   The terms and conditions described in subsections (F)(9)(a) and
(F)(9)(b) above shall not apply:
            1.   In areas where the land slopes away from the water or channel;
or
            2.   Where a drainage ditch does not have side inlets and has
earthen berms that prevent runoff from the field into the ditch.
      (10)   Aerial irrigation. Manure applied by a traveling gun, center pivot
or other irrigation equipment that allows liquid application of manure is
prohibited within the county unless approved by the County Feedlot Officer in
emergency situations.
      (11)   Application near sinkholes, mines, quarries and wells. Manure must
not be applied to land within 50 feet of an active or inactive water supply
well, sinkhole, mine or quarry, or other direct conduits to groundwater. Manure
must be immediately incorporated within 24 hours when applied to land that
slopes towards a sinkhole and is less than 300 feet from the sinkhole, unless
otherwise authorized by the Commissioner; however, as an exception, no setbacks
or immediate incorporation are necessary where diversions prevent surface
runoff from entering the sinkhole.
      (12)   Table 6.5 Required Setbacks for Land Application of Manure.
Table 6.5 Required Setbacks for Land Application of Manure
Location Surface Applied Incorporation or Injection
Table 6.5 Required Setbacks for Land Application of Manure
Location                         Surface Applied Incorporation or Injection
100-year floodplain              Prohibited      Allowed
Cemeteries                       300 feet        200 feet
Field tile intake                300 feet        See *1
Municipal well                   1,000 feet      1,000 feet
Municipality                     500 feet        200 feet
Private well                     200 feet        200 feet
Residence, neighboring residence 300 feet        200 feet
Road right-of-way                Prohibited      Prohibited
Source: State Pollution Control Agency
*1Additional application requirements for land within 300 feet of open tile
intakes. Manure must be injected or incorporated within 24 hours of being
land applied and prior to rainfall when applied within 300 feet of open tile
intakes, unless other MPCA approved water quality protection management
practices are implemented in this 300 feet zone.
 
      (13)   Residences. Manure may be applied closer to a residence, cemetery
or municipality than prescribed by this ordinance if permission is granted by
the resident or applicable governing body in the form of a written agreement
filed with the County Feedlot Officer. Agreements shall not bind subsequent
residents. When determining the distance between a residence and manure
application, the distance shall be measured from the residence, not property
lines, to manure application.
      (14)   Treatment or disposal. Any manure not utilized as domestic
fertilizer shall be treated or disposed of in accordance with applicable state
and county rules.
   (G)   Manure transportation and storage.
      (1)   Compliance with state and local standards. All animal manure shall
be stored and transported in conformance with Minnesota Rules, Chapter 7020 and
this ordinance. Manure compost sites shall comply with Minnesota Rules,
7020.2150 for operational, record keeping and reporting requirements.
      (2)   Potential pollution hazard prohibited. No manure storage area shall
be constructed, located or operated so as to create or maintain a potential
pollution hazard unless a NPDES, SDS or an interim permit has been issued by
the MPCA or County Feedlot Officer setting out the requirements for mitigating
or abating the potential pollution hazard.
      (3)   Vehicles, spreader. All vehicles used to transport animal manure on
township, county, state and interstate highways or through municipalities shall
be leak proof. Manure spreaders with end gates shall be in compliance with this
provision provided the end gate works effectively to restrict leakage and the
manure spreader is leak proof. This shall not apply to animal manure being
hauled to fields adjacent to feedlots or fields divided by roadways provided
the animal manure is for use as domestic fertilizer.
      (4)   Utilization as domestic fertilizer. Animal manure, when utilized as
domestic fertilizer, shall not be stored for longer than 18 months.
      (5)   Stacking of manure on site.
         (a)   General requirements.
            1.    Solid manure that is stacked for more than one year shall be
stored on a concrete containment pad designed with a Water Containment and
Diversion Plan approved by the Feedlot Officer as addressed in the site plan.
Manure shall be stored or stockpiled in a location where natural forces of
nature do not cause it, or leachate from it, to enter waters of the state.
            2.   Manure must not be placed on a stockpiling site unless a
three-to-one horizontal-to-vertical ratio can be maintained or the manure has
at least, a 15% solids content.
            3.   The use of rock quarries, gravel or sand pits, bedrock and
mining excavation sites for stockpiling manure is prohibited.
            4.   The size of a short-term stockpile must not exceed a volume
based on agronomic needs of the crops on 320 acres of fields and must not
exceed the agronomic needs of the crops on the tract of land on which the
stockpile is to be applied.
         (b)   Short-term stockpile sites requirements.
            1.   The manure must be removed from the site and land applied
within one year of the date when the stockpile was initially established.
            2.   A vegetative cover must be established on the site for at
least one full growing season prior to reuse as a short-term site, except for
the following:
               a.   Sites located within the confines of a hoofed-animal open
lot at a facility having the capacity to hold less than 100 animal units; and
               b.   Sites where manure is stockpiled for fewer than ten
consecutive days and no more than six times per calendar year.
            3.   Location restrictions:
               a.   Pile must be placed at least 300 feet of flow distance and
at least 50 feet horizontal distance, to waters of the state, open tile intakes
and any uncultivated wetlands which are not seeded to annual farm crops or crop
rotations involving perennial grasses or forages.
               b.   Pile must be placed at least 300 feet of flow distance from
any road ditch that flows to the features identified in (a) or 50 feet from any
road ditch where item (a) does not apply.
               c.   Pile must be placed at least 100 feet from any private
water supply or unused and unsealed well and located 200 feet from any private
well with less than 50 feet of watertight casing and that is not cased through
a confining layer at least ten feet thick;
               d.   Pile must be at least 100 feet from field drain tile that
is three feet or less from the soil surface.
               e.    Pile must have a two-foot separation to seasonal high
water table.
               f.   Pile must be at least 300 feet from a residence.
            4.   Short-term stockpiles are prohibited:
               a.   On land with a greater than 6% slope;
               b.   On land with slopes between 2% and 6%, except where clean
water diversions and erosion control practices are installed; and/or
               c.   On soils where the soil texture to a depth of five feet is
coarser than a sandy loam as identified in the most recent USDA/NRCS soil
survey manual.
            5.   Record-keeping: records shall be kept, by the feedlot owner/
operator for a minimum of three years that contains the following information:
               a.   Location of pile;
               b.   Date pile was established;
               c.   Volume of manure stockpiled;
               d.   Nutrient analysis of the manure; and
               e.   When the stockpiled manure was land applied.
         (c)   Permanent stockpile sites. The animal feedlot owner/operator of
a site containing a permanent stockpile site shall comply with Minnesota Rules,
Part 7020.2125 subpart 4.
      (6)   Run-off control structures. All outside manure storage areas shall
have run-off control structures to contain manure.
      (7)   Storage design approval.
         (a)   All plans for manure storage structures shall be reviewed and
approved by the County Feedlot Officer.
         (b)   A copy of the manure storage structure design, signed by a
registered engineer, shall be submitted to the County Feedlot Officer for
review and approval. Plans for manure storage structures may also be reviewed
by the SWCD, NRCS and/or MPCA.
         (c)   Construction of new open earthen or concrete manure slurry basin
for swine manure is prohibited. Existing open-air basins for swine manure may
be repaired or replaced. Open-air basins originally built for dairy manure
shall not be used for swine manure. An initial perimeter tile water sample
shall be taken from all new below ground manure storage areas by the owner/
operator, at his or her expense. A lab appropriately certified to perform water
analysis shall analyze the sample.
         (d)   The following tests shall be performed.
            1.   Total kjedahl nitrogen;
            2.   Nitrate nitrogen;
            3.   Nitrite nitrogen;
            4.   Chloride;
            5.   Sulfate;
            6.   Fecal coliform;
            7.   pH;
            8.   Temperature; and
            9.   Specific conductivity.
         (e)   Results of analysis shall be submitted to the County Feedlot
Officer.
         (f)   All new manure storage structures shall have a minimum storage
capacity of nine months.
         (g)   A perimeter fence shall be installed around any open earthen or
concrete manure slurry basin.
            1.   Fencing shall be a minimum of five feet high and be
impenetrable by children. Examples of such fencing would include, but not be
limited to, cyclone fencing, slatted fencing with less than six-inch openings
or solid fencing.
            2.   Fence shall be posted with signs every 100 feet stating
danger.
      (8)   Concrete pit requirements. Liquid manure storage areas shall comply
with Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2100. Concrete storage over 20,000 gallons
require a licensed engineered designed plan that meet or exceed the minimum
requirements. Proposed concrete pits under 20,000 gallons of manure storage
must document that the design meets or exceeds the requirements of the Agency.
      (9)   Steel tanks. Unlined steel tanks for underground manure storage
shall be prohibited.
      (10)   Odor control plan. Odor control plans may be required as a
condition of a construction short-form if the Feedlot Site Inspection Team
determines that odor control technology is available and feasible.
      (11)   Manure composting. An owner/operator composting manure site shall
comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2150.
      (12)   Poultry barn floors. An owner/operator proposing to build a
poultry barn shall comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2120 for requirements
of the barn floor.
   (H)   General.
      (1)   Closure plan. The landowner, owner and operator of any feedlot
shall be responsible for the ongoing management of manure and the final closure
of the feedlot within one year of ceasing operation. The closure shall include
the following:
         (a)   Cleaning of the buildings and the emptying and proper disposal
of manure from all manure storage structures;
         (b)   As soon as practicable after completing the requirements herein,
the landowner, owner and operator of any feedlot shall reduce soil nitrogen by
planting, growing and maintaining alfalfa, grasses or other perennial forage
for at least five years;
         (c)   Within 60 days after final closure, submit a certified letter to
the County Feedlot Officer stating that the animal feedlot or the manure
storage area has been closed according to the requirements in this part. The
letter must identify the location of the animal feedlot or manure storage area
by county, township, section and quarter section; and
         (d)   The County Feedlot Officer shall conduct an onsite inspection of
the feedlot to assure the closure was properly completed.
      (2)   Disposal of animal carcasses.
         (a)   General. All animal feedlot owner/operators shall submit a
mortality plan on a form provided by the County Feedlot Officer. At no time
shall feedlot-animal mortality be visible to the public from any public area or
neighboring residence, except during a catastrophic death and notice has been
given to the County Feedlot Officer and the State Board of Animal Health within
24 hours of occurrence. Board of Animal Health rules and recommendations shall
prevail to this ordinance during catastrophic death loss events or unique
situations where normal processing of livestock is not feasible and as new
disposal techniques are adapted.
         (b)   Dead animal containment (rendering pick-up structure). Rendering
pick-up structures shall meet the following minimum standards.
            1.   At all times structure shall be animal proof to prevent
scavenging.
            2.   Structure shall contain a roof made out of solid material. A
rendering pick-up structure shall be exempt from having a roof if sidewalls are
a minimum of six feet high.
            3.   Structure shall be located out of the road right-of-way.
            4.   Structure setback from streams, river, drainage ditch and
lakes shall be a minimum of 300 feet.
         (c)   Burial of animal mortality. Written approval for burial of
animal mortality may be required from the County Feedlot Officer. Minimum
burial requirements shall be met or exceeded.
            1.   Carcass must be buried at least three feet deep;
            2.   Carcass must be five feet above seasonal high water table;
            3.   Maximum of 2,000 pounds of carcass/burial pit/acre;
            4.   Prohibited in areas subject to surface water flooding; and
            5.   Must entirely cover each day’s deposit with a layer of dirt.
         (d)   Burning of animal mortality. Burning of animal mortality is
allowed only in MPCA approved incinerators.
         (e)   Composting of animal mortality. Composting of animal mortality
shall comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 1721.0740 as follows:
            1.   Carcasses must be covered with litter at all times. The ratio
of carbon to nitrogen in each compost pile must be between 15:1 and 35:1. Each
pile must be turned completely at least once every 21 days to add essential
oxygen to the composting material. The composting material must be kept moist
to ensure proper bacterial growth. The compost pile temperature must reach a
minimum of 130 degrees Fahrenheit during each of two heating cycles during the
composting process. Flies, rodents, and other vermin must be controlled around
composting sites. The finished product resulting from the composting of animal
carcasses must not contain visible pieces of soft tissue.
            2.   Composting structure must:
               a.   Be built on an impervious pad;
               b.   Be covered with a roof to prevent excessive moisture on the
composting material or if sawdust or other water-repelling material is used as
bulking agent, a roof may not be require;
               c.   Be built of rot-resistant material that is strong enough to
withstand the force exerted by the equipment;
               d.   Be large enough to handle each day’s normal mortality
through the endpoint of the composting that consists of a minimum of two heat
cycles; and
               e.   The composting structure shall have the following setbacks:
                  i.   Residences (other than owner/operators): 300 feet;
                  ii.   Public road (from the centerline): 125 feet;
                  iii.   Rear and side yard: 40 feet; and
                  iv.   Existing feedlot under separate ownership: 300 feet.
      (3)   Silage stacks. Silage stacks sites must be located and constructed
such that silage leachate runoff from the site does not discharge to waters of
the state. Silage stacks, which are an accessory use of a feedlot, shall be
setback 80 feet from rear and side yard boundaries and shall have a front yard
setback of 125 feet from the centerline of all road(s). Silage stacks, which
are not an accessory use, shall be required to obtain a conditional use permit.
(Silage stacks include, but are not limited to, silage bunkers, silage pads and
silage bags.)
   (I)   Administration and enforcement.
      (1)   Feedlot Officer. The County Board shall appoint a County Feedlot
Officer to administer and discharge the duties of this feedlot ordinance.
      (2)   Duties and powers. The County Feedlot Officer shall have the
following duties and powers:
         (a)   Administer and enforce the County Feedlot Ordinance;
         (b)   Review permits as set forth in this ordinance;
         (c)   Assist feedlot owners/operators with the county permitting
process including applications for a NPDES, SDS, construction short-form and
interim permits;
         (d)   Process applications to ensure compliance with county and state
regulations;
         (e)   Issue interim permits or construction short-forms;
         (f)   When appropriate, forward applications for permits along with
recommendations, to the MPCA;
         (g)   Maintain records including all construction short-form, interim
permits and land application of manure agreements;
         (h)   Provide and maintain a public information bureau relative to
this ordinance;
         (i)   Educate the public and feedlot owner/operators concerning
provisions of this ordinance;
         (j)   Inspect feedlot operations to ensure compliance with the
standards of this ordinance;
         (k)   Receive and review application requests for action by the Board
of Adjustment and/or the County Planning Commission and provide such
information as necessary for action to be taken;
         (l)   Revoke or suspend an interim permit after a hearing before the
Feedlot Officer;
         (m)   Maintain a record of all notifications received from livestock
production facility operators claiming the hydrogen sulfide ambient air quality
standard exemption, including the days the exemption was claimed and the
cumulative days used;
         (n)   Submit an annual report to the Commissioner by April 1 of each
year, in a format requested by the Commissioner;
         (o)   Complete the required County Feedlot Officer training necessary
to perform the duties described under this part;
         (p)   Review and process complaints; and
         (q)   Locate and register all animal feedlots that remain
unregistered.
      (3)   Complaint or emergency inspection. In addition to the enforcement
inspections, the County Feedlot Officer shall have the right to undertake
inspections upon notice, at a reasonable time based upon a signed written
complaint, or the reasonable belief of the existence of a material violation of
this ordinance.
      (4)   Interference prohibited. No person shall hinder or otherwise
interfere with the County Feedlot Officer in the performance of duties and
responsibilities required pursuant to this ordinance.
      (5)   Access to premises. Upon request of the County Feedlot Officer, the
applicant, permittee, owner/operator or any other person shall allow access to
the affected premises for the purposes of regulating and enforcing this
ordinance. Failure to provide reasonable access to the County Feedlot Officer
constitutes grounds for revocation of registration, construction short-form or
an interim permit.
      (6)   Fees. Application, permit or review and compliance inspection fees,
and such other fees required by this ordinance shall be set by resolution of
the County Board.
      (7)   Bio-security. The County Feedlot Officer may not enter a facility
where confined farm animals are kept unless the officer follows a procedure and
directive for bio-security measures that are identified by the Commissioner of
the Department of Natural Resources and the Board of Animal Health. This
subsection (I)(7) does not apply to emergency or exigent circumstances.
      (8)   Written complaints. The County Feedlot Officer will evaluate
written or oral complaints made to the County Feedlot Officer, whether the
complaining person is identified or anonymous, on a case-by-case basis.
      (9)   Variances.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the exclusive power to order
the issuance of variances from the terms of this ordinance, including
restrictions based on substandard feedlots or nonconformities.
         (b)   An expansion of an existing feedlot, which does not meet setback
requirements as determined by this ordinance, is not permitted unless a setback
variance is granted.
   (J)   Violations and enforcement.
      (1)   Violations. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
of the provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions
hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be
submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each
day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   Abandonment. Owners and operators of feedlots shall have joint and
severable liability for clean up, closure or emptying of abandoned feedlots.
      (3)   Construction stop work orders. Whenever any work is being done
contrary to the provisions of this ordinance, the County Feedlot Officer may
order the work stopped by written notice personally served upon the owner/
operator of the feedlot. All activities shall cease and desist until subsequent
authorization to proceed is received from the County Feedlot Officer.
      (4)   Suspension and revocation. Any person who fails to comply with the
conditions set forth on the interim permit or construction short-form permit
may be subject to suspension or revocation upon written notice personally
served, or mailed a written notice to the last known address by first-class
mail as documented upon the permit or registration, upon the owner/operator of
the feedlot by the County Feedlot Officer or the MPCA. A feedlot permit may be
suspended or revoked by the County Feedlot Officer. A hearing shall be held
before the Feedlot Officer when considering a suspension or revocation. Within
60 days of suspension, the operator shall submit a plan to mitigate any
problems identified by the County Feedlot Officer or the feedlot permit shall
be revoked. After revocation, the operator may submit a new application for a
feedlot permit and shall include a plan to mitigate any problems identified by
the County Feedlot Officer. Revocation is issued by the County Feedlot Officer.
Any suspension or revocation decisions made by the County Feedlot Officer may
be appealed to the Agency.
      (5)   Injunctive relief and other remedies. In the event of a violation
of this ordinance, the county may institute appropriate actions or proceedings,
including requesting injunctive relief, to prevent, restrain, correct or abate
such violations. All costs incurred for corrective action may be recovered by
the county in a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction or, at the
discretion of the county, the costs may be certified to the County Auditor as a
special tax against the real property. These and other remedies, as determined
appropriate by the county, may be imposed upon the applicant, permittee,
installee or other responsible person either in addition to or separate from
other enforcement actions.
      (6)   Costs of enforcement. In the event that the County Feedlot Officer
is required to take action to abate a violation of this ordinance or undertake
regular monitoring of a regulated feedlot to ensure compliance with the
requirements of this ordinance the costs of the abatement action and/or
monitoring may be certified to the County Auditor as a special tax against the
real property.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 105, passed 8-2-2011; Ord. 147, passed 8-3-
2021; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025; Ord. 161, passed 3-18-2025)
§ 6.07 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR AGRICULTURAL, NATURAL RESOURCES AND RELATED USES.
   (A)   Agricultural chemicals, seed and fertilizer sales, agriculturally-
oriented business, grain elevator, grain storage and drying (commercial),
livestock sales barn. Within the A-1 District, these uses shall require a
conditional use permit and site plan approval. The following standards shall
apply.
      (1)   Site plans shall indicate designated parking areas and signage,
where present. Adequate off-street parking shall be as determined in the
conditional use permit.
      (2)   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from adjacent residences as
specified under landscaping requirements found in §
6.15.
      (3)   Custom meat processing: all custom meat processing activities,
including animal slaughter, shall take place within a completely enclosed
building with adequate soundproofing and odor control and will meet all federal
and state requirements for humane slaughter and meat inspection.
   (B)   Ethanol or biofuel production, commercial. Within the A-1 District,
commercial ethanol or biofuel production shall require a conditional use permit
and site plan approval. The following standards shall apply.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Access. The site must be accessed via a paved road of sufficient
capacity to handle the anticipated traffic. A traffic study may be required.
      (3)   A noise and odor management plan may be required. Noise and odor
levels from the facility shall be in compliance with applicable State
Environmental Quality Board regulations in effect at the time the permit
application is submitted. The applicant shall appropriately demonstrate
compliance with the above noise and odor requirements as part of the
conditional use permit approval process.
      (4)   Setback. Any buildings or structures on the site shall be located
at least 500 feet from any residential property boundary.
   (C)   Agritourism. Activities offered on a seasonal, occasional, regular or
year-round basis to the general public, invited groups or visitors on a farm or
parcel of at least five acres of land. Activities must be related to
agriculture or tourism and accessory to the agricultural or community use, and
may include, harvest festivals, barn dances, museums, weddings, wedding
receptions, event center/indoor recreation facilities, haunted houses, art and
craft fairs, corn mazes, pizza farms, farm dinners, haunted hay rides, sleigh
rides, farm tours or similar uses. Agritourism may not include activities that
include the discharge of firearms, competitions among motorized vehicles or
other events that the county determines to be incompatible with the community’s
character or intent of the Unified Development Code.
      (1)   Minimum acreage and location. At least five acres in size and be
located at least 500 feet from a residence or residentially platted parcel.
      (2)   Access and roadways. The site must be accessed via a road of
sufficient capacity to handle the anticipated traffic. If an agritourism use is
accessed from a county-maintained highway, the County Engineer may recommend
conditions to address ingress, egress, signage, and sight-distance concerns. A
traffic study may be required.
      (3)   Site plan and parking. Site plan approval shall be required; site
plans shall indicate designated parking areas and signage, where present. Off-
street parking shall be constructed of an all- weather surface. Signage
requirements shall be as determined in the conditional use permit.
      (4)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be 7:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m. for all uses except wedding receptions which may extend to 12:00 a.m.,
provided there is at least 1,000 feet between the wedding reception hall and
the closest off-site residence. Music may be played or performed until 9:00
p.m. for uses with an off-site residence within 1,000 feet of the agritourism
structure or use. Music may be played until 12:00 a.m. for wedding receptions,
provided there is at least 1,000 feet to the closest off-site residence.
      (5)   Water and sewer systems. Adequate water service and on-site or
portable sewage treatment facilities.
      (6)   Other retail. May use up to 50% of the interior floor area of the
structures designated for agritourism use to sell non-agricultural products.
      (7)   Food service. Any on-site preparation and handling of food or
beverages must comply with all applicable federal, state and local standards.
Alcohol may be served with a consumption-and-display permit, a temporary one-
day consumption-and-display permit or a caterer’s permit. A structure used for
agritourism may include a kitchen for the following purposes:
         (a)   Proper assembly, service and storage of food catered from
another location;
         (b)   To produce value-added food products from farm products, such as
jams, jellies, pickles, pizza, fermented foods, milk products, pies, jerky or
similar products; and
         (c)   To prepare limited items associated with typical events
permitted on the property, such as pies, ice cream, sandwiches, salads, snacks
and pizza.
      (8)   Signage. Signage shall comply with the “Signage Permitted with
Businesses” as provided in Article 4.
      (9)   Farm stays. Any overnight stays by guests shall only be permitted
in connection with an approved campground, retreat house, retreat center or bed
and breakfast facility as such facilities are allowed or permitted in Article 6
of this code.
      (10)   Occupancy load. Any agritourism facility with an occupant load of
25 people or more, including employees, must provide a certificate from a
licensed Minnesota architect or licensed Minnesota building official
indicating:
         (a)   The uses permitted within the facility;
         (b)   The maximum number of people that may attend any event by use;
         (c)   That the facility meets the requirements of the Minnesota
Building Code and Minnesota Fire Code; and
         (d)   The permitted occupancy load of any agritourism facility must be
listed by use within the conditional use permit and posted and clearly visible
in the entry areas of the facility.
      (11)   Agritourism in the SO Shoreland Overlay District. No agritourism
use shall occur within principal setback from the Ordinary High Water Level
(OHWL) of any protected water basin (lake) or any protected watercourse (stream
or river) listed in §
5.01 of this code.
      (12)   Special events permit required. Special events must obtain a
special event permit, as specified in §
3.09.
   (D)   Feedlots. Within the UE and VMX districts, existing feedlots may
continue as conforming uses, but any expansion of an existing feedlot shall
require a conditional use permit. No new feedlots or expansion or improvement
of existing feedlots is allowed in the LR district or in the area extending
1,000 feet from the LR District.
   (E)   Nursery, tree farm. Within the A-1 District, a nursery or tree farm
that includes retail sales to the general public shall require a conditional
use permit and site plan approval. Site plans shall indicate designated parking
areas and signage, where present. Adequate off-street parking shall be as
determined in the conditional use permit.
   (F)   Natural resource manufacturing and processing.
      (1)   Site plan required. Site plan approval shall be required; site
plans shall indicate designated parking areas and signage, where present.
Adequate off-street parking shall be as determined in the conditional use
permit.
      (2)   Outdoor storage. Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from
adjacent residential or agricultural districts as specified under the
landscaping requirements found in §
6.15.
   (G)   Agricultural direct-market business. A seasonal or year-round
agricultural business operated on a parcel of at least five acres selling farm-
raised products, including animal products such as meat, fish and eggs,
produce, bedding plants, plant or wood materials, or any derivative thereof,
such as jams, jellies, wool products, maple syrup and similar products.
Products are sold directly to consumers without an intermediate wholesaler or
distributor. This use may include, but is not limited to, pick-your-own
operations, roadside stands, farm fishing and similar businesses.
      (1)   Maximum size of structures used in connection with an agriculture
direct-market business shall not exceed a combined total floor area of 800
square feet.
      (2)   Sale of goods produced off-site within the A-1 Agricultural
District: no more than 25% of the square footage of the farm stand may be used
to stock products raised, grown, produced, or made off the farm on which the
farm stand is located. The use of more than 25% of the square footage of a farm
stand within the Agricultural District to stock products raised, grown,
produced, or made off the farm on which the farm stand is located may be done
only with a conditional use permit.
      (3)   Parking: off-street parking shall be provided outside the road
right-of-way.
      (4)   Setbacks: farm stand structures and parking areas shall be located
at least ten feet from any road right-of-way, and at least 50 feet from
adjoining properties.
      (5)   The majority of the product sold on the property shall be grown or
raised on the property.
      (6)   An agricultural direct-market business may use up to 100 square
feet of retail space of the business to sell non-agricultural products. Non-
agricultural products may only be sold during periods that agricultural
products are also sold.
      (7)   No sale of product shall take place on any state, county or
township road or right-of-way.
      (8)   All structures, including temporary structures, shall meet the
minimum setback requirements of the zoning district. All buildings used in
conjunction with the use shall meet the requirements of the State Building
Code.
   (H)   Mineral extraction, mining.
      (1)   Conditional use permit required. A new excavation or extraction
operation, or the expansion of an existing operation, shall require a
conditional use permit meeting the general requirements in Articles 3, 5 and 6
and the following specific provisions.
      (2)   Application requirements. Maps of existing conditions, the proposed
pit or excavation and accessory structures, and site after reclamation shall be
prepared by a professional engineer or land surveyor and filed with the
application.
         (a)   The existing conditions map shall include: contour lines at
five-foot intervals, existing vegetation, existing drainage and permanent water
areas, existing structures, existing wells.
         (b)   The proposed map shall include, location and type of structures
to be erected, location of processing machinery (if any), location of sites to
be mined showing depth of proposed excavation, location of excavated deposits
showing maximum height of deposit, location of storage of excavated materials
showing the maximum height of excavated storage materials, location of stored
mining materials, location of vehicle parking, erosion and sediment control
structures.
         (c)   The reclamation map shall include: final grade of proposed site
showing elevations and contour lines at five-foot intervals, proper sloping of
banks at a maximum of 4:1, location and species of vegetation to be replanted,
location and nature and nature of any structures to be erected in relation to
the end use plan.
      (3)   Topsoil removal. The mining of topsoil for permanent removal from
the property is prohibited.
      (4)   Required conditions. No conditional use permit shall be issued
unless, at a minimum, the following conditions are included:
         (a)   An annual review of the site by the Zoning Administrator and as
needed if the Zoning Administrator, using his or her discretion, deems it
necessary. A fee shall be paid by the applicant at the time the application is
submitted in an amount to cover the costs of the number of annual reviews
required by the permit; the number to be determined by the length of the
permit;
         (b)   Provide a plan for phasing excavation so that no greater area
than a ten-acre cell is open at any time and provide a plan for reclaiming
areas as new phased cells are opened. Properly drain, fill or level any
excavation, after created, so as to make the same safe and healthful as the
Board shall determine;
         (c)   Provide a plan specifying the amount and location of excavated
materials to be stockpiled on site for any length of time;
         (d)   Provide a plan for dust and noise control meeting the standards
of the State Pollution Control Agency during operations, so as to not create a
nuisance to adjoining properties. Any dirt or gravel deposited in the public
right-of-way shall be removed at regular intervals;
         (e)   Weeds and any other unsightly or noxious vegetation shall be cut
or trimmed as may be necessary to preserve a reasonably neat appearance and to
prevent seeding on adjoining property;
         (f)   Limit the hours of operation from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday
through Friday and from 7:00 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. on Saturdays and there shall be
no mining activities on Sundays or the following observed holidays: New Year’s
Day; Easter; Memorial Day; Independence Day; Labor Day; Thanksgiving; and
Christmas Day. A one-hour quiet start up time is allowed prior to the above-
established times;
         (g)   During operation, fence, properly guard, and keep any pit or
excavation in such condition as not to be dangerous from caving or sliding
banks. Install an iron pipe gate (or other gate structure as approved by the
County Board) at entrance access point(s) that remain locked during non-
operating hours;
         (h)   Restrict runoff from the site to lake, rivers, streams or
adjacent properties. The operation shall not interfere with surface water
drainage beyond the boundaries of the site, nor shall it adversely affect the
quality or quantity of subsurface water resources. Surface water originating
outside and passing through the mining site shall, at the point of departure
from the mining site, be of equal or better quality to the water where it
enters the mining site. The permittee shall perform any water treatment
necessary to comply with this provision at his or her or their expense; and
         (i)   Trucks entering and leaving the mining site shall utilized hard
surfaced roads unless specific approval is granted by affected township(s).
Should the township(s) allow for use of a non-hard surfaced road, the permittee
shall provide adequate dust control so as to not create a nuisance to adjoining
properties. All access roads from mining operations to public highways shall be
laved or surfaced with gravel to minimize dust conditions. Provide adequate
signage for public safety, such as “Trucks Hauling” signs.
            1.   All processing of mined materials on-site shall be done as to
minimize adverse impacts of noise and dust on adjoining properties.
            2.   Keep any pit, excavation or impounded waters within the limits
for which the particular permit is granted. Provide, for the purpose of
retaining impounded waters, a container of sufficient strength and durability
and maintain such container in safe and proper condition.
            3.   Stockpile topsoil for use in reclamation in a manner that
prevents soil erosion. Any soils contaminated shall be mitigated as required by
the MPCA and the appropriate authorities in the manner shall be promptly
notified.
            4.   Grade site after extraction is completed so as to render it
usable, replace topsoil, seed where required to avoid erosion and an unsightly
mar on the landscape. The permittee shall comply with all reclamation standards
required by the Board and shall follow the recommendations of the SWCD.
            5.   Structures, storage of excavated materials or topsoil, and the
excavation edge shall be setback at least 300 feet from any protected water and
at least 100 feet from an adjoining property line or public right-of-way.
Mining and mining material operations and processing shall not be conducted
within 100 feet of an adjoining property line or public right-of-way. No on-
site processing of materials or storage of excavated materials or topsoil shall
occur within 1,000 feet of a residence.
            6.   The permittee shall be responsible for maintenance and
restoration of all county/township roads leading to the mining operation that
may be damaged due to activities involving the mining operation unless the
permittee can prove to the Zoning Administrator’s satisfaction that the mining
operation was not the cause of the roadway damage. All maintenance and
restoration of roads shall be done with the approval of the road authority’s
satisfaction.
            7.   Permittee shall be subject to review and compliance of the
above-listed conditions. The county may enter onto the premises at reasonable
times and in a reasonable manner to ensure the permit holder is in compliance
with the conditions and all other applicable statues, rules and ordinances. The
County Board reserves the right to impose additional restrictions or conditions
to the issuance of a conditional use permit, as it deems necessary, to protect
the public interest.
      (5)   Bonding required. As a condition of granting the permit, the County
Board shall require the owner, user or applicant to post a bond, in such form
and sum as the Board shall determine, with sufficient surety running to the
county, conditioned to pay the county the cost and expense of repairing, from
time to time, any highways, streets or other public ways where such repair work
is made necessary by the special burden resulting from hauling and travel, in
removing materials from any pit, excavation or impounded waters, the amount of
such cost and expense to be determined by the County Engineer; and conditioned
further to comply with all the requirements of this ordinance and the
particular permit, and to pay any expense the county may incur by reason of
doing anything required to be done by any applicant to whom a permit is issued.
In addition, a performance surety shall be provided in the amount of $50,000.
The surety shall be used to reimburse the county for any monies, labor or
material expended to bring the operation into compliance with the conditions of
the permit.
      (6)   Duration of permit. The duration of the conditional use permit
shall not exceed five years. Failure to renew the permit or to restore the site
shall result in the county exercising the bond and using the proceeds to
restore and property close the site.
      (7)   Renewal. As a condition of renewal of a conditional use permit for
excavation or extraction, the applicant must provide evidence of an active
operation during the prior permit period.
   (I)   Hunting shacks.
      (1)   Density standards.
         (a)   One shack or dwelling per lot of record if the general standards
in this section can be met.
         (b)   One shack per new lot if the new lot is ten acres or more and
the general standards in this section can be met.
         (c)   One shack per 80,000 square feet, with a minimum of 60,000
square feet to be left in the natural state, if the general standards and the
leasing standards can be met. Note: existing shacks will be counted in density
calculations.
      (2)   General standards.
         (a)   Septic systems are not allowed (except within a group leasing
situation). Pit toilets must be built according to State Pollution Control
Agency and the State Department of Health standards, through the county sewage
permit process.
         (b)   Wells and running water systems are not allowed. This
prohibition applies to any water supply, including tanks of water brought in
and either pumped or gravity flowed and discharged from the shack via a pipe or
hose. Water in hand carried containers may be utilized but may not be employed
so as to cause a discharge of sewage from a pipe or hose.
         (c)   Floor area must not be over 250 square feet. Any deck or porch
area shall be included as part of the square foot calculations and shall be
considered as part of the structure.
         (d)   The maximum height permitted is one story. That is no more than
14 feet above grade and includes any pilings or blocks the shack may be placed
on. No basement area is permitted.
         (e)   The 200-foot setback from ordinary high water mark must be
adhered to on all structures except docks.
         (f)   A shack located within the Shoreland District must have at least
200 feet of shoreline.
         (g)   Each lot must be adjacent to a public road or a recorded
easement to allow access.
         (h)   The shacks must be removed if found in a dilapidated and/or
abandoned conditions.
         (i)   A land survey by a registered land surveyor may be required.
      (3)   Leasing standards.
         (a)   There must be 200 feet of shoreline for each shack unless a
cluster lease plan is approved, where the total shoreland shall be 200 feet
times the number of shacks.
         (b)   Lots of less than ten acres created after the date of this
amendment, August 22, 1989, will not qualify for building permits. If the newly
created lot is ten acres or more, the owner of the lot may lease hunting shacks
in accordance with leasing standards put forth in this section.
         (c)   Clustering will be allowed and density bonuses may be granted if
common docks and launch areas are utilized or if other wildlife benefitting
measures are incorporated into the operating plan. All Department of Natural
Resources standards will be adhered to.
         (d)   The leased shack areas must be accessible for inspection and
safety purposes.
      (4)   Application guidelines.
         (a)   The conditional use permit application must be accompanied by
maps showing topography, ordinary high water line, existing structures, land
ownership, elevations, roads, vegetation and proposed shack sites and natural
land.
         (b)   Applications for leasing must also show an operating plan,
including sewage systems, roads, lake access and other applicable features.
         (c)   The county may request additional information from the applicant
if conditions warrant.
         (d)   The county may impose additional conditions on the conditional
use permit.
         (e)   The county may require bonding to protect against future public
costs.
      (5)   Permit cancellation. The permit may be canceled at any time the
standards or conditions are not being followed but otherwise would go with the
land.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 121, passed 6-16-2015; Ord. 125, passed 7-18-
2017; Ord. 143, passed 9-15-2020; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
AGRICULTURAL ZONING DISTRICTS AND RELATED USES
§ 6.08 A-1 AGRICULTURAL PROTECTION DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Agricultural Protection District is to
implement the following objectives, based on the goals and policies of the
County Comprehensive Plan:
      (1)   Maintain the rural agricultural character of the county;
      (2)   Maintain active agricultural uses as an integral part of the
county’s economy;
      (3)   Minimize conflicts between agricultural and non-agricultural uses;
      (4)   Encourage development and retention of agriculturally-related
businesses; and
      (5)   Allow limited residential development in agricultural areas where
it does not infringe on high-quality farmland soils or agricultural operations.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture and incidental agriculture-related uses, including
agricultural building(s);
      (2)   Feedlots.Pursuant to §
6.06(C)(9), new animal feedlots are prohibited from locating 2,640 feet or less
from an incorporated municipality, however, new animal feedlots located greater
than 2,640 feet and less than or equal to 5,280 feet shall obtain the County
Feedlot Site Inspection Team inspection recommendation and a conditional use
permit from the County Board;
      (3)   Feed and seed sales;
      (4)   Forestry, production of woodland products, nurseries, tree farms;
      (5)   Seasonal produce stands;
      (6)   Wildlife area, fish hatchery and forest preserve owned or operated
by governmental agencies;
      (7)   Single-family detached dwellings (refer to density and other
standards);
      (8)   Accessory dwelling unit pursuant to the standards in §
4.03;
      (9)   Home occupation pursuant to §
6.11(B);
      (10)   Licensed residential program (up to eight residents);
      (11)   Highway maintenance shops and yard;
      (12)   Local governmental agency building or facility, community center,
Town Hall and associated accessory buildings;
      (13)   Parks and public recreation areas;
      (14)   Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yard;
      (15)   Family daycare;
      (16)   Group family daycare;
      (17)   Solar energy systems (accessory), pursuant to §
6.16(PP);
      (18)   Swimming pool, hot tub;
      (19)   Water-oriented accessory structures (docks, lifts and the like);
      (20)   Wind turbine, accessory;
      (21)   Standalone accessory structure(s):
         (a)   Must meet the principal setbacks; and
         (b)   Conditional accessory structure shall only be utilized with an
approved conditional use permit.
      (22)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use including sheds and garages;
      (23)   Removal and stockpiling of fill up to 500 cubic yards of fill,
subject to review by the Planning and Zoning and/or Land and Water Resources
departments.
      (24)   Agricultural direct-market business when less than 25% of products
are produced off-site; and
      (25)   Sober house.
   (C)   Conditional uses (see Article 4 for accessory uses). Accessory uses
are subject to the standards found in Articles 3, 4 and 6 of this ordinance:
      (1)   Feedlots:
         (a)   Pursuant to §
6.06(C)(1), new feedlots of 50 animal units or more shall obtain a conditional
use permit unless recommendations of the County Feedlot Site Inspection Team
are implemented. All sites 3,000 animal units or larger, using the County
Animal Unit value of 0.4 for hogs, shall obtain a County Feedlot Site
Inspection Team inspection recommendation and a conditional use permit from the
County Board.
         (b)   Pursuant to §
6.06(C)(9), new animal feedlots are prohibited from locating 2,640 feet or less
from an incorporated municipality, however, new animal feedlots located greater
than 2,640 feet and less than or equal to 5,280 feet shall obtain the County
Feedlot Site Inspection Team inspection recommendation and a conditional use
permit from the County Board.
         (c)   Pursuant to §
6.06(E)(4), the Site Team reserves the right to require the applicant to obtain
a conditional use permit for any site it may inspect.
      (2)   Agricultural chemicals, fertilizer sales;
      (3)   Agriculturally-oriented business;
      (4)   Ethanol or biofuel production, commercial;
      (5)   Grain elevator, grain storage and drying (commercial);
      (6)   Livestock sales barn and accessory facilities;
      (7)   Mineral extraction, mining;
      (8)   Natural resource manufacturing and processing;
      (9)   Two-family dwelling;
      (10)    Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(C);
      (11)   Temporary worker housing;
      (12)   Cemetery, memorial garden;
      (13)   Daycare center;
      (14)   Religious institution;
      (15)   Campground;
      (16)   Golf course, country club, driving range;
      (17)   Gun or archery range, indoor;
      (18)   Gun or archery range, outdoor;
      (19)   Hunting club (private), hunting preserve, hunting shacks;
      (20)   Organized group camp;
      (21)   Organized motor sports: ATVs, trucks, tractors or motorcycle
tracks or trails (not including auto or other vehicle racing, tracks or
events);
      (22)   Paint ball course;
      (23)   Riding academy, boarding stable;
      (24)   Airport, heliport, aircraft rental, sale, servicing, manufacturing
and related services;
      (25)   Bed and breakfast;
      (26)   Veterinary and animal clinic and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals, including kennel and animal crematorium;
      (27)   Storage, bulk;
      (28)   Landfill (sanitary), recycling facility;
      (29)   Antenna for radio, television and communication facilities;
      (30)   Essential services, facilities and structures;
      (31)   Wind farm;
      (32)   Keeping of animals other than household pets (non-farm);
      (33)    Kennels, commercial;
      (34)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use;
      (35)   Solar farms;
      (36)   Trucking company or contractor's yard, as defined in §
8.03, when located at least 500 feet from a residence, other than the owner of
the company or contractor's yard;
      (37)   Agritourism;
      (38)   Agricultural direct-market when 25% or a greater percentage of
products are produced off-site;
      (39)   Agricultural equipment sale;
      (40)   Cannabis cultivation;
      (41)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (42)   Hemp manufacturer;
      (43)   Cannabis transportation; and
      (44)   Cannabis delivery (up to five vehicles).
   (D)   Density standards. The base density permitted in the A-1 District is
one dwelling unit per quarter-quarter section or parcel of record. Dwellings
existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance will be included when
determining whether or not a quarter-quarter section is at its maximum density.
The density within a quarter-quarter may be increased pursuant to the
provisions of §
6.09 (Transfer of development rights (TDR)).
   (E)   Dimensional standards. Development within the Agricultural Protection
District shall be subject to the following minimum dimensional standards
(amended 9-15-2009 and 6-21-2011):
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)    Single-family dwelling, standard lots: one acre minimum;
maximum of five acres for new residential lots for new lots in major
subdivisions as defined herein;
         (b)   Other principal permitted and conditional uses: three-acre
minimum or as specified by conditional use permit; and
         (c)   No minimum lot area required for utilities, public uses and
communication towers except as otherwise required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet, 75 feet (conservation subdivision).
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
principal structures:
 
           Standard Lots          Conservation Subdivision
Front yard 75 feet                75 feet
Side yard  40 feet (standard lot) 10 feet (conservation subdivision)
Rear yard  40 feet (standard lot) 10 feet (conservation subdivision)
 
      (4)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
accessory structures:
         (a)   Front yard: same as principal structure;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in height); and
         (c)   Rear yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in height).
      (5)   Minimum setbacks, windbreaks and trees:
         (a)   Road right-of-way of less than 100 feet: 20 feet from right-of-
way;
         (b)   Road right-of-way of 100 feet or greater: 15 feet from right-of-
way;
         (c)   From side or rear parcel boundary: ten feet for windbreaks
consisting of shrubs and 20 feet for trees, as defined; and
         (d)   Side or rear windbreak and tree setbacks may be reduced or
eliminated by agreement of adjoining property owners when the agreement is
filed with and recorded by the County Recorder of Deeds and a copy provided to
the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Maximum impervious surface coverage: none.
      (7)   Setback exception; residential subdivisions. All dwellings and
residential accessory structures in residential subdivisions within the A-
1 Agriculture Protection District may utilize the LR- Limited Residential
setbacks for principal and accessory structures located on the interior lots.
Lots located on the perimeter border of the subdivision shall use the setbacks
in paragraphs (E)(3) and (E)(4) above.
   (F)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements within this ordinance
and other County ordinances apply to development in the Agricultural Protection
District. These include, but are not limited to, the general regulations in
Article 4 and 5 and specific development standards in Article 6 of this
ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 104.1, passed 6-21-2011; Ord. 111, passed 10-
1-2013; Ord. 114, passed 4-15-2014; Ord. 117, passed 6-17-2014; Ord. 123,
passed 9-20-2016; Ord. 125, passed 7-18-2017; Ord. 146, passed 4-20-2021; Ord.
160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.09 TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS (TDR).
   (A)   Transfer of development rights (TDR) program; purpose. The purpose of
the transfer of development rights program is to transfer residential density
from eligible sending sites to eligible receiving sites through a voluntary
process for permanently preserving rural resources and lands that provide a
public benefit; the TDR provisions are intended to supplement land use
regulations, resource protection efforts and open space acquisition programs
and to encourage increased residential development density where it can best be
accommodated with the least impact on the natural environment and public
services by:
      (1)   Providing an effective and predictable incentive process for
property owners with rural resources to preserve lands with a public benefit;
and
      (2)   Providing an efficient and streamlined administrative review system
to ensure that transfers of development rights to receiving sites are evaluated
in a timely way and balanced with other county goals and policies and are
adjusted to the specific conditions of each receiving site.
   (B)   Transfer of development rights (TDR) program; sending sites. For the
purpose of this chapter, a sending site means a parcel or parcels of land of at
least a quarter-quarter section located within the A-1, Agricultural Protection
District or, under certain restrictions, into the UE, Urban Expansion District.
The parcel or parcels shall be under ownership by one person, a married couple
or one corporation, a partnership or limited liability company or there must be
a written agreement between all owners of a quarter-quarter section agreeing to
the sale of a TDR. In addition, the sending quarter-quarter sections must not
already be improved with a residence or residences.
   (C)   Transfer of development rights (TDR) program; receiving sites.
      (1)   Receiving sites located within the A-1 Agricultural Protection
District must not:
         (a)   Adversely impact any significant environmental resource or
environmentally sensitive areas; or
         (b)   Require public services and facilities to be extended to allow
the development of the receiving site.
      (2)    Except as provided herein, development of a receiving site shall
comply with dimensional standards and minimum lot standards of the underlying
A-1, Agricultural Protection District or the UE, Urban Expansion District.
      (3)   If an owner intends to occupy a residence, a TDR may be transferred
to a location adjacent to a feedlot by the owner and operator of the feedlot.
      (4)   TDR may be transferred within a township or between a common owner
anywhere within the county. A transfer between two owners and into another
township shall be completed only by completing a conditional use permit and by
following the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Transfer of development rights (TDR) program; calculations.
      (1)   The number of residential development rights that a sending site is
eligible to send to a receiving site shall be determined by applying the TDR
ratio of one TDR (unit) to a receiving site per quarter-quarter section from a
sending site.
      (2)   The maximum number of development rights transferred to any
receiving area shall not exceed eight TDRs per 40 acres if a traditional
subdivision is used or 16 TDRs per 40 acres if an approved conservation
subdivision is utilized.
      (3)   The TDR must come from a complete quarter-quarter section and
sending quarter-quarter sections must not be improved with a residence, feedlot
or commercial or industrial building(s). Any fractions of development rights
that result from the calculation of a TDR shall not be included in the final
determination of total development rights available for transfer.
   (E)   Transfer of development rights (TDR) program; documentation of
restrictions. 
      (1)   Following the approval of the transfer of development rights from a
sending site, a permanent easement documenting the development rights transfer
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder or the Registrar of
Titles against the title of the sending site parcel.
      (2)   The form of the restriction shall be approved by the County
Attorney and the County Planning and Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   The planning and zoning office shall establish and maintain an
internal tracking system that identifies all certified transfer of developments
rights including the sending and receiving sites.
      (4)   When a transfer of development rights has occurred, the TDR
restriction shall be documented on a map of the county. The approved TDR
restriction shall take the form of an easement and identify limitations on
future residential development consistent with this code.
   (F)   Transfer of development rights (TDR) program; transfer process.
      (1)   Following review and approval of the sending site application by
the County Planning and Zoning Administrator, a TDR certificate letter of
intent, agreeing to issue a TDR certificate shall be prepared authorizing an
exchange for the proposed sending site transfer of development rights easement.
The sending site owner may then market the TDR sending site development rights
to potential purchasers. If the TDR sending site that has been reviewed and
approved by the County Planning and Zoning Administrator changes ownership, the
TDR certificate letter of intent may be transferred to the new owner if
requested in writing to the Planning and Zoning Administrator by the person or
persons that owned the property when the TDR certificate letter of intent was
issued. Documentation evidencing the transfer of ownership must also be
provided to the County Planning and Zoning Department with the letter request.
      (2)   In applying for receiving site approval, the applicant shall
provide the County Planning and Zoning Department with the following:
         (a)   A TDR certificate letter of intent issued in the name of the
applicant, and a copy of a signed option to purchase the TDR sending site
development rights; and
         (b)   An application for a preliminary plat to subdivide the property
through the process described in this code. The public hearing for the
preliminary plat shall also function as the hearing authorizing the use the TDR
sending certificates.
      (3)   All receiving sites must be located within a platted subdivision or
be approved by minor subdivision to include a survey prepared by a licensed
Minnesota land surveyor. Prior to any subdivision or the issuance of any Zoning
Permit to construct a new residence, the receiving site applicant shall deliver
the TDR certificate issued in the applicant’s name for the number of TDR
development rights being used and the TDR extinguishment document in the form
of a permanent easement to the County Planning and Zoning Administrator. Both
the TDR certificate issued and the extinguishment document in the form of a
permanent easement shall be recorded with the office of the County Recorder or
the Registrar of Titles with or prior to the recording of a deed to transfer
title.
      (4)   When the receiving site development proposal requires a public
hearing under this title or its successor, that public hearing shall also serve
as the hearing on the TDR proposal. The reviewing authority shall make a
consolidated decision on the proposed development and use of TDR development
rights and consider any appeals of the TDR proposal under the same appeal
procedures set forth for the development proposal.
      (5)   When the development proposal does not require a public hearing
under this title, the TDR proposal shall be considered along with the
development proposal, and any appeals of the TDR proposal shall be considered
under the same appeal procedures set forth for the development proposal.
      (6)   Development rights from a sending site shall be considered
transferred to a receiving site when a final decision is made on the TDR
receiving area development proposal, the sending site is permanently protected
by a completed and recorded land dedication easement and notification has been
provided to the County Planning and Zoning Administrator of the recording of
the documents.
   (G)   Sunset provision. The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall annually
prepare a report regarding the use of TDRs within the county by January 31 of
each year to assist the Planning Commission and the County Board in assessing
the TDR program. To be valid, a TDR must be duly recorded by the office of the
County Recorder or the Registrar of Titles by that date. Any unrecorded TDR
will not be valid.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 128, passed 3-20-2018; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS AND RELATED USES
§ 6.10 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Gasoline storage in a Residential District. No underground gasoline storage
shall be permitted, except when part of a farming operation and located not
less than 50 feet from any dwelling, adjoining property line, well or public
road or highway.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 6.11 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL AND RELATED USES.
   (A)   Boarding house.
      (1)   The use must be located within a single-family dwelling, and shall
be considered the principal use on the property.
      (2)   The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from
its single-family residential character.
   (B)   Home occupation, permitted. A home occupation is allowed in any
district where residential uses are permitted. Permitted home occupations
include the following: offices; professional services; art or craft studios;
hair styling salon or barber; dog grooming; teaching; tutoring or counseling;
single truck owner operators; and similar activities that involve little
additional traffic or external evidence of the use. All home occupations shall
conform to the following standards.
      (1)   The occupation shall be conducted only by person(s) residing in the
dwelling.
      (2)   The home occupation shall be incidental and subordinate to the use
of the property for residential purposes.
      (3)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation beyond that
which is reasonable and normal for the area in which it is located. Events that
attract traffic in excess of this amount shall be regulated as special events
if they meet the special event standards in §
3.09.
      (4)   One non-illuminated sign no more than four square feet per surface
may be permitted.
      (5)   Entrance to the home occupation shall be from within the structure.
Any exterior evidence of the business shall be compatible with surrounding
uses.
      (6)   The home occupation shall not result in increased usage of the
septic system beyond the system’s capacity.
      (7)   One additional parking space shall be provided for the use of
clients, deliveries and the like, located outside of any required setback.
   (C)   Home occupation, conditional. Conditional use home occupations include
the following: craft or trade workshops; small engine repair; dog “daycare”;
and similar activities requiring the use of outdoor space or accessory
buildings. In addition, any home occupation that exceeds any of the standards
for permitted home occupations may be allowed as a conditional use in any
district where residential uses are permitted.
      (1)   No more than two persons at any given time other than person(s)
residing in the dwelling shall be employed in conjunction with the home
occupation.
      (2)   The home occupation may be conducted in an accessory building or
attached garage not exceeding 2,000 square feet of gross floor area.
      (3)   Up to three additional parking spaces shall be provided to
accommodate any additional parking required by the home occupation, located
outside of any required setback.
      (4)   No outdoor display of good is permitted.
      (5)   Outdoor storage shall be screened from adjacent residences as
specified under commercial landscape requirements in §
6.15, and must be in character with neighborhood.
      (6)   An outside entrance may be provided.
      (7)   One non-illuminated sign no more than 12 square feet in size may be
provided.
      (8)   No equipment or processes used in the home occupation shall create
noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors or electrical interference detectable off
the premises.
      (9)   No traffic shall be generated by the home occupation beyond that
which is reasonable and normal for the area in which it is located. Events that
attract traffic in excess of this amount shall be regulated as special events
if they meet the standards in §
3.09.
      (10)   Operations that expand to exceed the standards of this subsection
(C) and their conditional use permit may be required to reduce the scope of
their activities to comply with those standards.
   (D)   Licensed residential program. A licensed residential care facility
shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   The building and any exterior fenced areas shall meet the setback
and dimensional standards for a single-family residence.
      (2)   The use shall comply with all applicable federal, state and county
rules and regulations.
      (3)   The facility shall be licensed by the appropriate state agency.
      (4)   The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered from
its single-family residential character.
      (5)   The facility shall not provide accommodations to treat persons
whose tenancy would constitute a direct threat to the health and safety of
other individuals.
   (E)   Manufactured home park.
      (1)   Area and dimensional standards.
         (a)   The minimum required area for a manufactured home park shall be
ten acres.
         (b)   A minimum area of 4,000 square feet shall be provided for each
residence.
         (c)   Setback requirements shall be as follows:
            1.   Front yard setbacks: 25 feet from curb of interior streets;
            2.   Side yard: ten feet between side yards; a minimum separation
of 30 feet between manufactured homes or other structures;
            3.   Rear yard: 15 feet; and
            4.   Adjacent to public streets or roads, the setbacks of the
primary zoning district shall be met.
         (d)   Maximum lot coverage: 25%.
      (2)   Design standards:
         (a)   Vehicular access points shall be subject to review and approval
of the County Engineer.
         (b)   All streets shall be hard-surfaced; street width shall be as
specified for private streets in §
3.06. Streets shall be lighted and designed per county road standards.
         (c)   A minimum of one off-street parking space shall be provided for
each manufactured home.
   (F)   Multi-family dwelling. Within the VMX and LR Districts, new multi-
family units may be allowed as a conditional use meeting the following
requirements.
      (1)   A maximum of four units may be permitted within any building or on
a single parcel.
      (2)   When present in a mixed use building in the VMX District, multi-
family units shall be located above the first floor with other allowed
nonresidential uses on the ground floor.
      (3)   All county SSTS standards shall be met.
   (G)   Sober house. The purpose of this section is to set forth standards and
conditions pertaining to a request for reasonable accommodation. Sober house
shall be permitted in zoning districts where residential uses are allowed
except in the I General Industrial, HC Highway Commercial and CLR Closed
Landfill Restricted Districts.
      (1)   Standards and conditions. A request for reasonable accommodation
for this use as required under the Federal Fair Housing Act Amendments of 1988
by providing an exception to the maximum number of unrelated persons living
together in a dwelling unit shall automatically be granted if the following
standards and conditions are met. This does not limit Waseca County from
granting additional reasonable accommodation for this use under the general
provisions of the Unified Development Code.
         (a)   The operator shall submit a request for reasonable accommodation
to the Planning and Zoning Administrator on a form as provided by the county,
to be approved by Waseca County Board of Commissioners, specifying the proposed
maximum residential occupancy, and providing information necessary to assure
the use meets applicable zoning standards.
         (b)   For a structure serving 17 or more potential sober house
occupants, a conditional use permit is required.
         (c)   A sober house shall be required to adhere to applicable county
regulations and all applicable federal and state laws.
   (H)   Temporary worker housing. Temporary housing for migratory or other
farm workers shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   The dwelling unit shall be located upon the property where the
worker is employed.
      (2)   Occupancy is limited to eight months of each year.
      (3)   The unit, whether site built or manufactured, shall meet all
requirements of applicable state manufactured housing codes and any applicable
local building codes in effect at the time of construction.
      (4)   All buildings used as temporary housing shall have a permanent,
continuous perimeter foundation.
      (5)   Occupancy per unit shall be limited to standards established by the
state and the local Fire Department Official.
      (6)   Sanitary facilities shall meet the county SSTS standards.
      (7)   Site and structural improvements (parking, recreation space, site
layout and the like) shall be determined by the Planning Commission.
      (8)   A temporary dwelling unit shall not be considered in the
calculation of residential density as set forth in this ordinance.
   (I)   Two-family dwelling.
      (1)   The site must possess the zoning district’s minimum lot size for
two-family dwellings.
      (2)   Front entrance location.
         (a)   Access to the second dwelling unit shall be either through a
common hallway with one front entrance, or by means of a separate entrance.
         (b)   The primary entrance to at least one unit shall be located on
the facade fronting a public or private street or private lane or access
easement.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 149, passed 2-1-2022)
§ 6.12 RESIDENTIAL, INSTITUTIONAL AND CIVIC USES OFF-STREET PARKING
REGULATIONS.
   All vehicle parking for residential, institutional and civic uses hereafter
constructed or maintained shall conform to the applicable provisions of this
ordinance; required off-street parking areas shall meet the following design
standards.
   (A)   Minimum parking space size and adequate access. Each parking space
shall have a width of not less than ten feet and a depth of not less than 20
feet. Each parking space shall be adequately served by access drives.
   (B)   Reduction and use of parking areas. On-site parking facilities
existing at the effective date of this ordinance shall not subsequently be
reduced to an amount less than that required under this ordinance for a similar
new building or use. On-site parking facilities provided to comply with the
provisions of this ordinance shall not subsequently be reduced below the
requirements of this ordinance. Such required parking or loading space shall
not be used for storage of goods or for storage of vehicles that are inoperable
or for sale or rent.
   (C)   Handicapped parking. Off-street parking areas shall be designed to
meet the number, placement, size and marking and identification requirements
for handicapped parking contained in federal and state statutes.
   (D)   Yards. On-site parking facilities shall not be subject to the front
yard, side yard and rear yard regulations for the use district in which parking
is located.
   (E)   Access.
      (1)   Parking spaces shall have proper access from a public right-of-way.
      (2)   The number and width of access drives shall be so located as to
minimize traffic congestion and abnormal traffic hazard. Frontage roads or
service roads may be required when, in the opinion of the County Planning
Commission, such service roads are necessary to maintain traffic safety.
      (3)   Vehicular access to business or industrial uses across property in
any residential District shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Location and maintenance of parking facilities.
      (1)   Required on-site parking space shall be provided on the same lot as
the principal building or use.
      (2)   The operator of the principal building or use shall maintain
parking and loading areas, access drives and yard areas in a neat and adequate
manner.
   (G)   Location of off-street parking required site plan. Any application for
a building permit shall include a site plan or plot plan drawn to scale and
dimensioned, showing on-site parking and loading space to be provided in
compliance with this ordinance. Marking and delineation of off-street parking
areas may be required as part of a site development plan or subdivision
approval.
   (H)   Required number of off-street parking spaces for residential,
institutional and civic uses.
      (1)   Adequate parking required. On-site parking areas of sufficient size
to provide parking for patrons, customers, suppliers, visitors and employees
shall be provided on the premises of each use.
      (2)   Computation of required spaces. In computing the number of such
parking spaces required, the following rules shall govern.
         (a)   Floor space shall mean the gross floor area of the specific use.
         (b)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required
shall be construed to be the nearest whole number.
         (c)   The parking space requirement for a use not specifically
mentioned herein shall be the same as required for a use of similar nature, as
determined by the County Board and the Planning Commission.
         (d)   In places of public assembly, in which patrons occupy benches,
pews or similar facilities, each 22 inches of such seating facility shall be
counted as one seat for the purposes of determining requirements.
      (3)   Principal use. In all districts, off-street parking shall be
required based on the principal use of the lot in the amounts listed in Table
6-6, below.
Table 6.6 Off-Street Parking Requirements for Residential,
Institutional and Civic Uses
Use Category or Type from Table 6-10 Required Spaces
Table 6.6 Off-Street Parking Requirements for Residential,
Institutional and Civic Uses
Use Category or Type from Table 6-10    Required Spaces
Institutional and civic uses -          1 for each 4 seats provided or 1/1,000
community services except cemetery      sq. ft. of gross floor area
Institutional and civic uses - cemetery 1/4,000 sq. ft. of gross land area
Institutional and civic uses -          1/each employee plus 1/each 4 students,
educational institutions except         based on design capacity
secondary school
Institutional and civic uses - health   4/1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
care and social services
Institutional and civic uses -          1/each employee plus 1/each 6 students,
secondary school                        based on design capacity
Institutional and civic uses - public   1/5,000 sq. ft. of gross land area
parks and open space
Residential uses - group living         1 per dwelling unit plus one for every
                                        two bedrooms
Residential uses - household living     1 per dwelling unit
 
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 6.13 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR INSTITUTIONAL AND CIVIC USES.
   (A)   Cemetery. Any new or expanded cemetery shall comply with the following
requirements.
      (1)   Burial plots and headstones shall be located a minimum of 15 feet
from all lot boundaries.
      (2)    Minimum area: any lot with a cemetery as the principal use shall
be at least three acres in size.
   (B)   Daycare center. The following standards apply to daycare centers, both
permitted and conditional, and to family or group daycare accessory to a
residential use.
      (1)   Within a residential or agricultural district, the building and any
exterior fenced area shall meet the setback requirements for a single-family
residence.
      (2)   The use shall comply with all applicable federal, state and county
rules and regulations.
      (3)   For child daycare facilities, at least 50 square feet of outside
play area shall be provided for each child under care.
      (4)   For adult daycare facilities, at least 150 square feet of outdoor
area for seating or exercise shall be provided for each adult under care.
      (5)   When the daycare facility is located in a church or school building
originally constructed for use as a church or school, the use shall be treated
as an accessory use.
   (C)   Religious institution. The following standards shall apply both to
permitted and conditional uses.
      (1)   Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)    The site must be accessed via a road of sufficient capacity to
handle the anticipated traffic. A traffic study may be required.
      (3)   One accessory single-family residential use on the same lot as the
religious institution shall be allowed.
      (4)   Any other uses of the facility, such as a school or daycare center,
shall be treated as a separate use.
   (D)   Highway maintenance shop and yard.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required. Special attention
shall be paid to outdoor storage and the prevention of nuisance to adjacent
properties.
      (2)   Hours of operation. The Planning Commission may limit the hours of
operation shall be limited so as to prevent an adverse impact on adjacent
property owners.
      (3)   Street access. The site shall have access to a road of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
   (E)   Private school.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Off-street parking. Parking shall be provided in the side or rear
yard and shall be completely screened from view of any adjoining residential
properties as described found in §
6.15.
      (3)   Building proximity to property line. No building shall be located
within 30 feet of any property line unless the lot is adjacent to a
nonresidential use.
      (4)   Lighting. All exterior lights must be directed downward and not
produce glare on adjoining residential properties.
      (5)   Screening. Vegetative screening and buffers shall be provided where
the lot abuts residentially used properties as required by the County Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.14 LR LIMITED RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Limited Residential District is to
implement the following objectives, based on the goals and policies of the
County Comprehensive Plan:
      (1)   Allow limited residential development within the Shoreland Overlay
District of the general development and recreational development lakes (except
Goose Lake, due to the shallow nature of this water body), as shown on the
approved zoning map, and in areas between general development lakes and natural
environment lakes where a parcel is: within one mile of a general development
as shown on the approved zoning map; and where a concept plan was submitted
prior to the approval of this code. The goal is to allow growth in areas that
are not well-suited for agricultural use because of soil type, topography,
vegetation or other factors. Residential uses should be designed and located so
as to minimize impact on natural and scenic resources. Residential uses should
not interfere with existing agricultural operations;
      (2)   Promote conservation subdivision design in order to maintain
contiguous blocks of economically viable agricultural land, woodlands and open
space and to preserve scenic views, natural drainage systems and other
desirable features of the natural environment; and
      (3)   Provide flexibility, innovation and creativity in development of
lands with proximity to general development and recreational development lakes
that is subject to development pressure.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture and incidental agriculture-related uses, including
agricultural building(s) and farm homesteads;
      (2)   Forestry, production of woodland products, nurseries, tree farms;
      (3)   Seasonal produce stand;
      (4)   Wildlife area, fish hatchery and forest preserve owned or operated
by governmental agencies;
      (5)   Single-family detached dwelling (refer to density and other
standards);
      (6)   Accessory dwelling unit, pursuant to the standards in §
4.03;
      (7)   Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(B);
      (8)   Licensed residential program (up to eight residents);
      (9)   Local governmental agency building or facility, community center,
Town Hall and associated accessory building(s);
      (10)   Parks and public recreation areas;
      (11)   Religious institution;
      (12)   Barber, beauty shop;
      (13)   Bed and breakfast;
      (14)   Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yard;
      (15)   Family daycare;
      (16)   Group family daycare;
      (17)   Solar energy systems, pursuant to §
6.16(PP);
      (18)   Swimming pool, hot tub;
      (19)   Wind turbine, accessory; and
      (20)    Sober house; and
      (21)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use.
   (C)   Conditional uses (see Article 4 for accessory uses).
      (1)   Two-family dwelling;
      (2)   Boarding house;
      (3)   Home occupation; pursuant to §
6.11(C);
      (4)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (5)   Temporary worker housing;
      (6)   Cemetery, memorial garden;
      (7)   Daycare center;
      (8)   Campground;
      (9)   Golf course, country club, driving range;
      (10)   Hunting club (private) hunting preserve;
      (11)   Organized group camp;
      (12)   Riding academy, boarding stable;
      (13)   Essential services, facilities and structures;
      (14)   Kennels, commercial;
      (15)   Water-oriented accessory structures (docks, lifts and the like);
and
      (16)   Agritourism.
   (D)   Density standards. The base density permitted in the LR District is
eight dwelling units per quarter-quarter section. A dwelling that is part of a
farmstead is counted as a dwelling unit. A parcel of record is entitled to one
dwelling unit.
   (E)   Conservation subdivision design requirement and standards. As an
incentive to protect county natural resources and promote goals of the
Comprehensive Plan, conservation subdivision design is an option in the LR
District.
      (1)   If conservation subdivision design is used in compliance with
provisions in §
3.06, the maximum permitted residential density is 16 units per 40 acres.
      (2)   Minimum common open space: A minimum of 50% of the property shall
be protected as permanent common open space, which may include agricultural
uses and other uses specified in the conservation easement text.
      (3)   Open space shall be sited and designed according to the standards
in §
3.06.
   (F)   Dimensional standards. Development within the Limited Residential
District shall be subject to the following minimum dimensional standards:
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling, standard lots: one acre;
         (b)   Conservation subdivision lots: 0.75-acre minimum; two and one-
half-acre maximum;
         (c)   Other principal permitted and conditional uses: two and one-half
acre minimum or as specified by conditional use permit; and
         (d)   No minimum lot area required for utilities, public uses and
communication towers except as otherwise required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 150 feet, or 75 feet for conservation
subdivision lots;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
principal structures:
 
           Standard Lots Conservation lots
Front yard 40 feet       30 feet from interior road
Rear yard  30 feet       25 feet
Side yard  15 feet       10 feet
 
      (4)   Minimum setback when a property is accessed via a private road:
Front yard, 25 feet.
      (5)    Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
accessory structures:
         (a)   Front yard: same as principal structure;
         (b)   Side yard: 15 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in height); and
         (c)   Rear yard: 15 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in height).
      (6)   Minimum setbacks, windbreaks and trees:
         (a)   Road right-of-way of less than 100 feet: 20 feet from right-of-
way;
         (b)   Road right-of-way of 100 feet or greater: 15 feet from right-of-
way;
         (c)   From side or rear parcel boundary: ten feet for windbreaks
consisting of shrubs and 20 feet for trees, as defined; and
         (d)   Side or rear windbreak and tree setbacks may be reduced or
eliminated by agreement of adjoining property owners when the agreement is
filed with the Zoning Administrator and recorded by the County Recorder of
Deeds.
      (7)   Maximum impervious coverage(outside the Shoreland District): 25%;
and
      (8)   Maximum height for all structures except agricultural structures,
utilities and communication or wind towers: 35 feet.
   (G)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements within this ordinance
and other county ordinances apply to development in the Limited Residential
District. These include, but are not limited to, the general regulations in
Articles 4 and 5 and the conditional use and specific development standards
found in Articles 3 through 6 of this ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 104.1, passed 6-21-2011; Ord. 138, passed 9-3-
2019; Ord. 143, passed 9-15-2020; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS AND RELATED USES
§ 6.15 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Performance standards. It is the intent of this section to provide
that uses of land and buildings in commercial and industrial districts shall be
established and maintained with proper appearance from streets and adjoining
properties and to provide that each permitted use shall be a good neighbor to
adjoining properties by the control of the following:
      (1)   Standards.
         (a)   Landscaping. All required yards either shall be open landscaped
and green areas or be left in a natural state. If any yards are to be
landscaped, they shall be landscaped attractively with lawn, trees, shrubs and
the like. Any areas left in a natural state shall be properly maintained in an
attractive and well-kept condition. Yards adjoining any residences shall be
landscaped with buffer planting screens. Plans of such screen shall be
submitted for approval as a part of the site plan and installed prior to
occupancy of any tract in the district.
         (b)   Emissions. Emission or creation of noise, odors, heat, glare,
vibration, smoke, toxic or noxious fumes, and dust or other particulate matter
shall conform to standards established by the State Pollution Control Agency.
Detailed plans relating to the proposed use and operation may be required
before issuance of a building permit to ensure compliance with these
regulations.
         (c)   Exterior lighting. Any lights used for exterior illumination
shall be diffused, hooded or directed away from adjoining properties and public
streets.
         (d)   Water pollution. All uses shall conform to the water pollution
standards and controls enforced by the county and those adopted by the State
Pollution Control Agency and other agencies and governing bodies which have
such powers and controls.
         (e)   Hazard. Every use established, enlarged or remodeled shall be
operated with reasonable precautions against fire and explosion hazards.
      (2)   Compliance. In order to ensure compliance with the performance
standards set forth above, the County Board may require the owner or operator
of any permitted or conditional use to have made such investigations and tests
as may be required to show adherence to the performance standards. Such
investigation and tests as are required to be made shall be carried out by an
independent testing organization as may be selected by the County Board.
   (B)   Landscaping. Yards of commercial sales and service and industrial uses
adjoining any residential district shall be landscaped with planting buffer
screens. Plans for such screens shall be submitted as a part of the application
for zoning permit and installed as a part of the initial construction.
   (C)   Storage of materials. For any commercial sales and service and
industrial uses the display of materials in the public right-of-way shall be
prohibited. Any other outdoor display shall be located or screened so as not to
be visible from any residential district within 1,000 feet.
   (D)   Exception to required front yard area. For commercial and industrial
buildings, up to 20% of the required front yard area may be covered by arcades,
canopies, roofs, solar power systems or similar architectural features.
   (E)   Parking standards for commercial and industrial uses.
      (1)   Location of required off-street parking.
         (a)   On-site parking and loading facilities shall not be subject to
the front yard, side yard and rear yard regulations for the use district in
which parking is located, except that in the Highway Commercial and General
Industrial Districts no parking or loading space shall be located within ten
feet of any property line that abuts a road or highway right-of-way, or any
residential or agricultural district, except for railroad loading areas.
         (b)   No parking area shall be constructed in the required side yard
of a building that is adjacent to a residential district.
      (2)   Handicapped parking. Off-street parking areas shall be designed to
meet the number, placement, size and marking and identification requirements
for handicapped parking contained in state statutes.
         (a)   Design and access to off-street spaces. Commercial and
industrial uses shall adhere to the standards for parking areas for
residential, civic and institutional uses found in §
6.12, except where it directly contradicts a standard found in this section (§
6.15), when the standards found in this section (§
6.15) shall be the controlling.
         (b)   Number of required spaces. In all districts, off-street parking
for commercial recreation, retail, service, commercial and industrial uses
shall be required based on the principal use of the lot in the amounts listed
in Table 6.7 below.
 
Table 6.7 Minimum Off-street Parking Standards for
Commercial and Industrial Uses
Commercial recreation uses          1 for each 4 seats provided or 5/1,000 sq.
                                    ft. of gross floor area or gross land area
                                    No minimum or spaces as required by the
Industrial uses                     Board after review by the Planning
                                    Commission in case of conditional use
                                    permit
                                    3/1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area or as
Retail, service and commercial uses required by the Board after review by the
                                    Planning Commission
 
      (3)   Combined parking facilities. Combined or joint parking facilities
may be provided for one or more buildings or uses in any commercial or
industrial District, provided that the total number of spaces shall equal the
sum of the requirements for each building or use.
      (4)   Construction and maintenance.
         (a)   In any commercial or Industrial District, parking areas and
access drives shall be covered with a dust-free, all-weather surface or an
adequate gravel base with proper surface drainage, as required by the County
Engineer.
         (b)   The operator of the principal building or use shall maintain
parking and loading areas, access drives and yard areas in a neat and adequate
manner.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting shall be reflected away from the public right-
of-way and nearby or adjacent residential or agricultural district.
      (6)   Off-street loading areas; commercial and industrial uses.
         (a)   Purpose. The purpose of the regulation of loading spaces in
these zoning regulations is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public
right-of-way and so to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by
establishing minimum requirements for off-street loading and unloading from
motor vehicles in accordance with the utilization of various parcels of land or
structures.
         (b)   Loading space and access. All loading spaces shall be sufficient
to meet the requirements of each use and shall provide adequate space for
storage and maneuvering of the vehicle they are designed to serve. Each loading
space shall contain a minimum area of not less than 500 square feet.
         (c)   Number of loading berths. Required loading berths in connection
with any structure which is to be erected or substantially altered and which
requires the receipt or distribution of materials or merchandise by trucks or
similar vehicles, and which will have a gross floor area of 5,000 square feet
or more, there shall be provided off-street loading space on the basis of the
following minimum requirements.
 
Square Feet of Aggregate Gross Floor Minimum Required Number of Area Berths
5,000 up to and including 16,000     1
16,000 up to and including 40,000    2
40,000 up to and including 70,000    3
70,000 up to and including 100,000   4
For each additional 40,000           1 additional
One additional loading berth shall be provided for each additional 20,000
square feet or fraction thereof of gross floor area
 
      (7)   Off-street loading area design standards. Required off-street
loading areas shall meet the following design standards.
         (a)   Size. Each loading berth shall be not less than 15 feet in
width, 60 feet in length, and 15 feet in height. All loading spaces shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements of each use and shall provide adequate
space for storage and maneuvering of the vehicle they are designed to serve.
Each loading space shall contain a minimum area of not less than 500 square
feet.
         (b)   Location. Such berth may occupy part of a required yard space,
however, required off-street loading areas shall not occupy required buffer
areas between commercial or industrial lots and adjacent non-commercial or non-
industrial lots, and no berth shall be constructed in the required side yard of
a building that is adjacent to a residential district.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 6.16 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES.
   (A)   Airport, heliport, aircraft rental, sale, servicing, manufacturing and
related services.
      (1)   All airports and heliports shall be approved by the State
Department of Transportation, Aeronautics Division and shall comply with all
applicable federal and state requirements.
      (2)   All airports and heliports shall be located at least two miles from
any built up area having a density of two or more dwelling units per acre.
      (3)   Hangers used for storing aircraft shall be located at least 150
feet from the right-of-way of any public road or street and at least 500 feet
from any residential structure on abutting land.
      (4)   No portion of any runway shall be located within 1,000 feet of a
residential structure.
   (B)   Adult uses.
      (1)   Licensing requirements. See Article 3, Development Review Processes
and Requirements.
         (a)   No person(s) under 18 years of age shall be permitted in any
adult use-principal premises, enterprise, establishment, business or place.
         (b)   No liquor license, as defined, shall be issued to any adult use
related premises, enterprise, establishment, business or place open to some or
all members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, description of or participation in “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
         (c)   No adult use related premises, enterprise, establishment,
business or place shall allow or permit the sale or service of set ups to mix
alcoholic drinks. No alcoholic beverages shall be consumed on the premises of
such premises, enterprise, establishment, business or place.
         (d)   Activities classified as obscene are not permitted and are
prohibited. In no instance shall the application or interpretation of this
ordinance be construed to allow an activity otherwise prohibited by law.
         (e)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited
from locating in any building that is also utilized for residential purposes.
         (f)   An adult use that does not qualify as an accessory use pursuant
to subsection (B)(9) below shall be classified as an adult-use principal.
         (g)   The owner/operator shall hire and employ his or her own security
personnel who shall provide crowd control to maintain orderly conduct at such
establishment. These employees are not required to be law enforcement
personnel.
         (h)   Off-street parking shall be provided meeting the requirements
found in §
6.15.
      (2)   Site plan review. Site plan review shall be required for all adult
uses. Access, parking, screening, lighting and other relevant site-related
criteria shall be considered as part of the site plan review process.
      (3)   Separation requirements. Any adult use-principal, shall be located
at least 1,000 lineal feet, as measured in a straight line from the closest
point of the main entrance of the building within which the adult use-principal
is located, to the property line of:
         (a)   Any residentially used or zoned property;
         (b)   Any licensed daycare center or facility;
         (c)   Any public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high school;
         (d)   Any hotel or motel;
         (e)   Any public park or trails system;
         (f)   Any nursing home;
         (g)   Any youth establishment;
         (h)   Any church or church related organization; and/or
         (i)   Another adult establishment. No adult use-principal shall be
located in the same building or upon the same property as another adult use-
principal.
      (4)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation for adult uses-principal
shall be between the times of 9:00 a.m. and 12:30 a.m. The County Board may
approve a differing time schedule if it can be satisfactorily demonstrated to
the Board that all of the following apply.
         (a)   The use does not adversely impact or affect uses or activities
within 1,000 feet.
         (b)   The use will not result in increased policing and police related
service calls.
         (c)   The schedule is critical to the operation of the business.
      (5)   Sign regulations. Adult uses-principal shall adhere to the
following sign regulations in addition to those set forth in §
4.12, Sign Regulations.
         (a)   Sign message shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name and type of business. Signs shall not be pictorial.
         (b)   Signs shall be limited to the size and number of signs permitted
in the district in which the use is located.
      (6)   Adult cabaret restrictions. The following additional restrictions
apply to adult cabarets.
         (a)   No person, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity shall
advertise, or cause to be advertised, an adult cabaret without a valid adult
use license.
         (b)   An adult use licensee shall maintain and retain for a period of
two years the names, addresses and ages of all persons engaged, hired or
employed as dancers or performers by the licensee. These written records must
be provided to the county or county’s enforcement designee(s) upon request.
         (c)   An adult cabaret shall be prohibited in establishments where
alcoholic beverages are served.
         (d)   No owner, operator or manager of an adult cabaret shall permit
or allow any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude unless as
provided in subparts (B)(7) and (B)(8) below.
         (e)   No patron or any person other than a dancer or live entertainer
shall be wholly or partially nude in terms of “specified anatomical area” in an
adult cabaret.
         (f)   No dancer, live entertainer, performer shall be under 18 years
of age.
         (g)   All dancing shall occur on a platform intended for that purpose
which is raised at least two feet above the level of the floor.
         (h)   No dancer or performer shall perform or dance closer than ten
feet from any patron unless such dancer or performer is enclosed behind a floor
to ceiling glass partition.
         (i)   No dancer shall fondle or caress any patron and no patron shall
fondle or caress any dancer or performer.
         (j)   No person under 18 years of age shall be admitted to an adult
cabaret.
      (7)   Viewing booth restrictions. The following additional regulations
apply to viewing booths.
         (a)   Individual motion picture viewing booths must be without doors
and the occupant must be visible at all times.
         (b)   Only one person may be in a viewing booth at a time.
         (c)   Walls separating booths must be such that the occupants cannot
engage in sexual activity.
         (d)   Each booth must be kept clean and sanitary.
         (e)   Minimum lighting requirements must be maintained. Minimum
lighting shall be construed to be that of which a book of general print could
be easily read by any given individual.
      (8)   Accessory adult uses. Adult uses-accessory shall be permitted in
the HC, Highway Commercial and I, General Industrial Districts, provided the
accessory use conforms to the provisions of this subsection (B)(8).
      (9)   (a)   Adult use, accessory. An adult use, accessory shall:
            1.   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the
establishment in which it is located;
            2.   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation; and
            3.   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental
of merchandise.
         (b)   Restricted access. Adult uses-accessory shall be restricted
from, and prohibit access to minors, by physically separating the following and
similar items from areas of general public access.
            1.   Movie rental display areas shall be restricted from general
view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in
clear view of, and under the control of, the persons responsible for the
operation.
            2.   Magazines or publications classified as adult uses shall not
be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with a wrapper or other
means to prevent display of any material other than the publication title.
            3.   Other adult uses not specifically cited shall comply with the
intent of this ordinance.
         (c)   Advertising. Adult uses, accessory shall be prohibited from both
internal and external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
   (C)   Cannabis business.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this subsection (C) is to implement the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 342, which authorizes Waseca County to protect the
public health, safety, welfare of the county residents by regulating cannabis
businesses within the jurisdiction of the county. The county finds and
concludes that the proposed provisions are appropriate and lawful land use
regulations the county, that the proposed amendments will promote the
community's interest in reasonable stability in zoning for now and in the
future, and that the proposed provisions are in the public interest and for the
public good.
      (2)   Registration of cannabis businesses.
         (a)   Consent to registering cannabis business. No individual or
entity may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business within the county
without first registering with the county. Any state-licensed cannabis retail
business that sells to a customer or patient without valid retail registration
shall incur a civil penalty for each violation, as established by the County
Board of Commissioners.
         (b)   Compliance check. Prior to issuance of a cannabis retail
business registration, the county shall conduct a preliminary compliance check
to ensure compliance with local ordinances.
         (c)   Fees. The fees including but not limited to registration and
renewal fees shall be as established by the County Board of Commissioners.
         (d)   Application for a retail registration and subsequent renewal of
retail registration shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator with required
fees. The application shall include:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought;
            4.   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13;
            5.   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of Office of
Cannabis Management license pre-approval; and
            6.   Any additional information or development review processes and
requirements as determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   Location change. A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall
be required to submit a new application for registration under subsection (C)
(2)(d) above, if it seeks to move to a new location still within the
jurisdictional boundaries of this ordinance.
         (f)   Annual compliance checks. The county shall complete at minimum
one compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if
the business meets age verification requirements, as required under M.S. §§
342.22, Subd. 4(b) and 342.24 and this section. The county shall conduct at
minimum one unannounced age verification compliance check at least once per
calendar year.
         (g)   Suspension of registration. The county may suspend a cannabis
retail business’s registration if it violates this section or any provisions in
the Unified Development Code or any county regulations or poses an immediate
threat to the health or safety of the public. The county shall immediately
notify the cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for the suspension
and notify the Office of Cannabis Management of such. The length of suspension
shall be as determined by the Office of Cannabis Management.
         (h)   Limits to the number of retail registrations. The county shall
limit the number of cannabis retail businesses and microbusiness/
mezzobusinesses with retail licenses to no fewer than one registration for
every 12,500 residents in areas lying outside the incorporated limits of
municipalities within the county. The population data provided by the U.S.
Census Bureau shall be used in this determination. If the number of allowable
active cannabis retail business registration is reached, the county shall not
be required to register additional state-licensed cannabis retail businesses.
      (3)   Requirements for cannabis businesses.
         (a)   Minimum buffer requirements. The operation of a cannabis
business is prohibited within:
            1.   One thousand feet of a school;
            2.   Five hundred feet of a daycare or daycare center;
            3.   Five hundred feet of a residential treatment facility;
            4.   Five hundred feet of an attraction within a public park that
is regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field; and
            5.   Other buffer requirements pursuant to M.S. § 462.367, Subd.
14394.36, as it may be amended from time to time are applicable.
      (4)   Zoning and land use. See each zoning district for permitted and
conditional uses.
      (5)   Hours of operation. Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale
of cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.,
Monday through Sunday. The sale of cannabis is prohibited between 2:00 a.m. and
8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and between 2:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on
Sundays.
      (6)   Sign regulations. Cannabis businesses shall adhere to the
regulations set forth in §
4.12, Sign Regulations.
      (7)   Use in public place. Pursuant to M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5, no
person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use.
   (D)      Automobile repair.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Access. If the Planning Commission determines it necessary, the
site shall have access to a hard surfaced road of sufficient capacity to
accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Repair shop. All repairs shall be performed within a completely
enclosed building.
      (4)   Hazardous materials. Venting of odors, gas and fumes shall be
directed away from residential uses. All storage tanks shall be equipped with
vapor-tight fittings to preclude the escape of gas vapors. All chemicals,
hazardous materials, solid waste and nutrients and/or the like shall be
properly used or disposed of by legal, environmentally sound methods. Any
spills resulting from the use of such chemicals, hazardous materials or the
like shall be properly reported, contained and mitigated as the State Pollution
Control Agency may deem necessary. The State Duty Officer’s phone number is 1-
800-422-0798.
   (E)   Automobile service station, car wash.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Access. If the Planning Commission determines it necessary, the
site shall have access to a hard surfaced road of sufficient capacity to
accommodate the traffic that the use will generate
      (3)   Car wash. A car wash facility, either attached or detached from the
principal structure, shall only be permitted as an accessory use.
      (4)   Water. Water from the car wash shall not drain across any sidewalk
or into a public right-of-way.
      (5)   Noise. Vacuum and drying facilities shall be located in an enclosed
structure or at a sufficient distance from any residential use to minimize the
impact of noise. Additional controls may be established to control noise during
the operation of the facility, including controls of hours of operation.
      (6)   Spills. All chemicals, hazardous materials, solid waste and
nutrients and/or the like shall be properly used or disposed of by legal,
environmentally sound methods. Any spills resulting from the use of such
chemicals, hazardous materials or the like shall be properly reported,
contained and mitigated as the State Pollution Control Agency may deem
necessary.
   (F)   Bed and breakfast.
      (1)   Location. The facility shall be located in a single-family detached
dwelling.
      (2)   Number of bedrooms. A maximum of four bedrooms may be rented to
guests.
      (3)   Guest parking. Parking for guests shall be located to the rear or
side of the dwelling.
      (4)   Guest register. The facility shall maintain a guest register open
to inspection by the county.
   (G)   Building material sales and storage, lumber yard, garden store,
commercial greenhouse, manufactured home sales.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (5)   Buffers. Buffers shall be installed meeting the standards found in
§
6.15.
      (6)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
   (H)   Bulk storage.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
   (I)   Campground, organized group camp, recreational camping area.
      (1)   Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   The campground or organized group camp must be accessed via a paved
road of sufficient capacity to handle the anticipated traffic. A traffic study
may be required. A recreational camping area may be accessed via an unpaved
road.
      (3)   One accessory caretaker’s residence on the same lot as the facility
shall be allowed.
      (4)   Density and area requirements:
         (a)   Minimum area requirement for a camp area shall be five acres;
and
         (b)   Minimum site size of 2,000 square feet shall be provided for
each recreational camping vehicle in camping area.
      (5)   Setback and spacing requirements:
         (a)   All recreational camping vehicles shall be located at least 25
feet from any camping area property boundary line abutting upon a public street
or highway right-of-way and at least ten feet from other park property boundary
lines;
         (b)   All recreational camping vehicles shall be separated from each
other and from other structures by at least ten feet. Any accessory structure
such as attached awnings, car ports or individual storage facilities, shall,
for the purpose of this separation requirement, be considered part of the
recreational camping vehicle; and
         (c)   A minimum of 10% of the site area shall be developed for
recreational use (play areas, courts, swimming and the like) and maintained at
the owner/operator’s expense.
   (J)   Convenience gas and goods sales.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (5)   Buffers. Buffers shall be installed meeting the standards found in
§
6.15.
      (6)   Spills. All chemicals, hazardous materials, solid waste and
nutrients and/or the like shall be properly used or disposed of by legal,
environmentally sound methods. Any spills resulting from the use of such
chemicals, hazardous materials or the like shall be properly reported,
contained and mitigated as the State Pollution Control Agency may deem
necessary.
   (K)   Essential services.
      (1)   Purpose. Since essential services, as defined by this ordinance,
may have an effect upon urbanizing areas of the county, county land uses,
county highway locations, and county parks and recreation areas, the location
of all such essential services in any zoning district shall be filed with the
County Engineer and the Zoning Administrator prior to commencement of any
condemnation action or construction by the owner.
      (2)   Applicability. Standards in this subsection shall only apply to
those essential service facilities subject to local control as determined by
M.S. Chapter 216, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Permit processing. Transmission services, i.e., utility service
such as electrical power lines of a voltage of 35 KV or greater, or bulk gas or
fuel being transferred from station to station, and not intended for in route
consumption, shall follow the following procedures.
         (a)   The owner shall file with the Zoning Administrator such maps
indicating the location, alignment and type of service proposed as shall be
requested.
         (b)   The maps and accompanying data shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendations regarding the relationship
to urban growth, land uses, highways and recreation and park areas.
         (c)   Following such review, the Planning Commission shall make a
report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed essential services
and shall file such report with the County Board.
         (d)   Upon receipt of the report of the Planning Commission on the
planned essential services, the County Board shall consider the maps and
accompanying data and shall indicate to the owner its approval or modifications
considered desirable under this ordinance.
      (4)   Permitted use. Electric substations and similar essential service
structures, as well as public utility buildings, shall be a conditional
permitted use in all districts.
      (5)   Placement within county right-of-way. An application for a permit
for essential services located within any county highway or county state aid
highway rights-of-way shall follow the following procedures.
         (a)   The applicant shall file with the County Engineer on forms
supplied by the county, an application for such permit accompanied by maps
indicating the locations, alignment and type of service proposed.
         (b)   The application and accompanying data shall be reviewed by the
County Engineer, and the County Engineer may issue the permit after determining
that the application is acceptable and in the best interests of the county.
         (c)   The County Engineer may require, in conjunction with the
issuance of such permit, that:
            1.   The applicant submit, as built, drawings of the essential
services after construction; and
            2.   The applicant construct the essential service to take into
consideration contemplated widening, re-grading or relocation of a county
highway or county state aid highway, providing the county owns such additional
right-of-way.
      (6)   Maintenance. No utility permits shall be required to maintain, or
reconstruct, existing lines where the general alignment of the existing line is
maintained.
      (7)   Review timeliness. Recognizing the need for adequate and timely
service by owners of essential services, the County Engineer shall act upon all
information filings or permit applications within 45 days of receipt by the
County Engineer. Failure to act within 45 days shall constitute approval.
      (8)   Fees.
         (a)   A utility permit application fee shall be established by the
County Board payable when the application is filed.
         (b)   Any outside costs for consulting services to aid the Planning
Commission and/or County Board in making a decision on the utility permit
application shall be paid by the applicant. Such fee shall be as determined by
the County Board.
   (L)   Fertilizer manufacture.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Setbacks. Anhydrous ammonia containers shall be located outside of
buildings other than those especially constructed for this purpose. Containers
shall meet the following setbacks:
         (a)   From a main line railroad: ten feet;
         (b)   From adjacent property boundaries: 50 feet;
         (c)   From a dwelling or water supply well or water body: 100 feet;
and
         (d)   From an educational institution, hospital or religious assembly:
1,000 feet.
      (3)   Outdoor storage prohibited. Equipment or materials shall be
completely enclosed in a permanent structure, with the exception of fertilizer
storage tanks and fertilizer equipment; no outdoor storage shall be permitted.
      (4)   Spills. All chemicals, hazardous materials, solid waste, and
nutrients and/or the like shall be properly used or disposed of by legal,
environmentally sound methods. Any spills resulting from the use of such
chemicals, hazardous materials or the like shall be properly reported,
contained and mitigated as the State Pollution Control Agency may deem
necessary.
      (5)   Architect or engineered design. This project is required to be
designed by a licensed engineer or architect in accordance with the State Board
of Architecture, Engineering, Land Surveying, Landscape Architecture,
Geosciences and Interior Design.
   (M)   Golf course, country club, driving range.
      (1)   Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Setback: all buildings shall be set back at least 50 feet from the
property line of any residential use.
      (3)   The site must be accessed via a paved road of sufficient capacity
to handle the anticipated traffic. A traffic study and transportation
management plan may be required.
      (4)   One accessory caretaker’s residence on the same lot as the facility
shall be allowed.
      (5)   Storage of pesticides and fertilizers shall follow the standards of
the State Department of Agriculture. A plan shall be submitted for storage and
use of pesticides and fertilizers at the facility.
      (6)   Golf courses shall be designed with environmental resources in
mind. Performance standards shall include:
         (a)   Water recycling and conservation through on-site storage and use
facilities;
         (b)   Use of landscaped buffers and other Best Management Practices
(BMPs) to minimize fertilizer runoff and other chemicals from entering surface
water bodies; and
         (c)   Use of landscaping and careful layout of golf course to preserve
and enhance wildlife habitat through preservation of existing vegetation and
habitat as well as creation of new habitat opportunities.
   (N)   Go-cart track, miniature golf, skating rink (unenclosed).
      (1)   Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   The site must be accessed via a paved road of sufficient capacity
to handle the anticipated traffic. A traffic study and transportation
management plan may be required.
   (O)   Hunting preserve.
      (1)   The boundaries of all hunting preserves shall be clearly indicated
by signs.
      (2)   The signs shall be no more than 150 feet apart and shall be
continuous around the perimeter of the area contained in the preserve.
      (3)   The lettering on the signs shall be at least two inches in height.
      (4)   The signs shall clearly state the nature of the preserve and the
type of use involved.
   (P)   Landfill (sanitary), recycling facility.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Conditional use permit length. The conditional use permit for the
facility shall be reviewed every five years to determine whether the facility
continues to comply with all conditions.
      (3)   Operational plan. An operational plan shall be developed for the
facility, and subsequent activities shall be conducted in accordance with the
plan.
      (4)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (5)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (6)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (7)   Buffers. Buffers shall be installed meeting the standards found in
§
6.15.
      (8)   Noise. Additional controls may be established to control noise
during the operation of the facility, including controls of hours of operation.
      (9)   Spills. All chemicals, hazardous materials, solid waste and
nutrients and/or the like shall be properly used or disposed of by legal,
environmentally sound methods. Any spills resulting from the use of such
chemicals, hazardous materials or the like shall be properly reported,
contained and mitigated as the State Pollution Control Agency may deem
necessary.
      (10)   Architect or engineered design. This project is required to be
designed by a licensed engineer or architect in accordance with the State Board
of Architecture, Engineering, Land Surveying, Landscape Architecture,
Geosciences and Interior Design.
   (Q)   Office, professional or medical.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a road of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
   (R)   Office, other than professional or medical.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
   (S)   Office services.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a road of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
   (T)   Organized motor sports, paint ball course.
      (1)   A site plan shall be submitted regarding the nature of the
facility, sanitary facilities and waste disposal, lighting, hours of operation,
erosion control and other issues identified as relevant to the proposed use.
      (2)   Erosion control plans for trails may be required.
      (3)   Tracks or trails shall be set back at least 500 feet from property
lines, at least 300 feet from any road right-of-way, and at least 1,500 feet
from existing residences, with the exception of residences on the same property
as the motor sport use.
      (4)   Noise shall be limited to a maximum level of 50dB(A) at the nearest
property line.
      (5)   One caretaker residence may be allowed, which shall be used only by
the caretaker and his or her family members. The caretaker residence shall be
accessed via the access road to the facility.
   (U)   Repair services.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15e.
   (V)   Restaurant (drive-in), theater (drive-in), or similar uses that
provide goods and services to patrons in automobiles.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (5)   Buffers. Buffers shall be installed meeting the standards found in
§
6.15.
      (6)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
   (W)   Retail sales establishment.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a road of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
   (X)   Restaurant.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a road of sufficient
capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (4)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
   (Y)   Riding academy, boarding stable (may also be subject to feedlot
requirements).
      (1)   Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Any building must be located shall be located at least 50 feet from
the boundary of any residential use.
      (3)   Special events that will periodically attract visitors, customers
or traffic in excess of normal operations must obtain a special event permit,
as specified in §
3.09.
   (Z)   Salvage yard, recycling facility with incinerator, other facilities
with incinerators.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Screening. Outdoor storage shall be located or screened so as not
to be visible from 1,000 feet of any residential district or from any public
road. A solid fence or vegetative screening a minimum of six feet in height (in
place at the time of permitting) shall be used for screening purposes.
      (3)   Use of front yard. No part of the front yard is to be used for the
conduct of business in any manner except for parking of customer or employee
vehicles.
      (4)   Spills. All chemicals, hazardous materials, solid waste and
nutrients and/or the like shall be properly used or disposed of by legal,
environmentally sound methods. Any spills resulting from the use of such
chemicals, hazardous materials or the like shall be properly reported,
contained and mitigated as the State Pollution Control Agency may deem
necessary.
   (AA)   Shooting range, indoor.
      (1)   Setback. The shooting range building shall be located at least 50
feet from the boundary of any residential use.
      (2)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (3)   Performance standards. The use shall conform to the applicable
State Pollution Control Agency, Environmental Protection Agency and OSHA
standards for indoor ventilation, emissions into the atmosphere, indoor sound
levels, lead containment and outside noise standards.
      (4)   Retail sales. If retail sale and repair of weapons and/or
ammunition is conducted on the premises, the management shall comply with all
licensing and operations requirements of the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco
and Firearms.
      (5)   Building design. The design and construction of the firing range
shall totally confine all fired projectiles within the building and in a
controlled manner. The design and construction of the firing range shall be
certified by a licensed engineer with expertise in shooting range design, and
shall be designed, constructed and certified to all applicable professional
standards. The certified plans shall include the specifications and
construction of the bullet traps, ceilings, exterior and interior walls, and
floors. The certified plans shall state what type and caliber of ammunition the
range is designed to totally confine. No ammunition shall be used in the range
that exceeds the certified design and construction specifications of the firing
range.
      (6)   Log of users. A written log of range users shall be maintained by
the range operator. The log shall include the name and address of the range
user, and the time and date the user was in the range. The name and address of
the range user shall be verified by photo identification. The log shall be
subject to review by the County Sheriff or designee.
      (7)   Alarm system. An alarm system, cut wire protected, shall be
supplied to provide security for the general premises.
      (8)   Firearm storage. Firearms which are stored on the premises shall be
stored in a vault when the range is closed for business. An alarm system,
independent of the general alarm system and cut wire protected, shall be
supplied for the firearm vault. Ammunition shall not be stored in the firearm
vault.
      (9)   Supervision. On-site supervision shall be supplied at all times by
an adult with credentials as a qualified range master, based on National Rifle
Association standards.
      (10)   Transport. The transport of firearms on the premises shall conform
to state law.
      (11)   Access by minors. Minors shall not be allowed in the range unless
accompanied by an adult at all times.
      (12)   Hours of operation. The operation of the range shall be limited to
the hours of 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.
   (BB)   Shooting range, outdoor; hunting club.
      (1)   Compliance. Facilities shall be in compliance with the performance
standards set forth in M.S. Chapter 87A, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Authorized activities. Shooting ranges that meet the performance
standards in M.S. Chapter 87A, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be
allowed to engage in the following authorized activities within the property
boundaries of the range:
         (a)   Discharge of firearms. Operate the range and conduct activities
involving the discharge of firearms;
         (b)   Membership. Expand or increase its membership or opportunities
for public participation related to the primary activity as a shooting range;
         (c)   Meet standards. Make those repairs or improvements desirable to
meet or exceed requirements of shooting range performance standards;
         (d)   Activities. Increase events and activities related to the
primary activity as a shooting range;
         (e)   Time of operations. Conduct shooting activities and discharge
firearms daily between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.; and
         (f)   Purchase additional land. Acquire additional lands to be used
for buffer zones or noise mitigation efforts or to otherwise comply with this
chapter.
      (3)   Mitigation area. A mitigation area is established for a distance of
750 feet from the perimeter property line of an outdoor shooting range. Within
the mitigation area, the following provisions apply.
         (a)   Development prohibited. No change in use, new development or
construction of a structure shall be approved for any portion of property
within the mitigation area.
         (b)   Exemption for existing development. Uses, development and
structures in existence or for which approval has been granted by October 1,
2005 are exempt from the mitigation area requirements.
         (c)   Exemption if mitigation provided. A change in use, new
development or construction of a structure may occur within the mitigation area
if the person seeking the approval agrees to provide any mitigation necessary
to keep the shooting range in compliance with the performance standards. The
mitigation agreement shall be signed by the person seeking approval and the
shooting range. If no mitigation is required to keep the shooting range in
compliance with the performance standards, an agreement shall be signed by the
person seeking approval and the shooting range stating that mitigation is not
required. Agreements required under this subsection (AA) shall be in written
form and subject to approval by the County Board. Failure to obtain an
agreement required under this subsection shall exempt the shooting range from
being found out of compliance with the performance standards in relation to the
property or person where the agreement was not obtained if the failure to
provide mitigation is the sole reason for the shooting range being out of
compliance with the performance standards.
      (4)   Setback from existing residences. No outdoor shooting range shall
be allowed within 1,500 feet of an existing residence, measured from the
property line of the range site. This provision shall not apply to a residence
on the shooting range property. No outdoor shooting range shall be allowed
within 750 feet of a property line.
      (5)   Caretaker’s residence. One accessory caretaker’s residence on the
same lot as the facility shall be allowed.
      (6)   Performance standards. All shooting ranges shall comply with the
minimum standards for range design, location, management, operation, noise
abatement and safety listed in the most current National Rifle Association
Range Sourcebook, as well as the following standards:
      (7)   Range. The range shall be designed to provide protection from
accidental or stray ammunition discharge for surrounding properties.
      (8)   Only firearms shall be discharged at the range. No cannons,
artillery or rockets shall be discharged unless blanks are being fired.
      (9)   Management Plan and Safety Plan. All shooting ranges must have in
place a Management Plan and Safety Plan approved by the county which will
detail how all shooting activities will be controlled, supervised and managed.
      (10)   Fencing required. Fencing shall be required according to the
approved site plan. Gates shall be placed at all road entrances to the property
and shall be locked when the facility is not in use.
      (11)   Gun club facilities. Use of a gun club facility shall be
restricted to club members, guests, and participants in club sanctioned events.
It shall be the responsibility of the club to supervise all shooting
activities.
      (12)   Noise limits. Allowable noise levels for the operation of a
shooting range are those specified in M.S. Chapter 87A, as it may be amended
from time to time. Sound measurement methodology is as defined in Minnesota
Rules, Part 7030.0060.
      (13)   Lead Management Plan. Shooting ranges shall have a current lead
management plan approved by the MPCA on file with County Planning and Zoning
Department.
      (14)   Landscape screening. Landscaping including the planting of trees
shall be provided to screen the range from roads and adjacent residences. The
vegetative buffer shall be a combination of native grasses and trees that are
matched to the soil type found on the range perimeter. At least three rows of
different species of trees, planted similar to a windbreak or shelterbelt are
required. With a mixture of heights, growth quickness and a combination of
conifer and deciduous species, both a sight and sound buffer can be created to
effectively block noise levels emitted from the range.
      (15)   Retail sales prohibited. No retail sales or repair of firearms
shall be permitted as an accessory use to an outdoor range. Retail sales of
ammunition, other supplies, refreshments and the like shall be permitted.
      (16)   Liability insurance. The range operator shall maintain liability
insurance in an amount acceptable to the County Attorney and shall provide the
County Planning and Zoning Department with a copy of the insurance policy.
   (CC)   Skating rink (enclosed), dance hall, game arcade, bowling alley,
health club.
      (1)   Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Setback. Any building must be located shall be located at least 50
feet from the boundary of any residential use.
      (3)   The site must be accessed via a paved road of sufficient capacity
to handle the anticipated traffic. A traffic study and transportation
management plan may be required.
   (DD)   Tavern, club.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (3)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
   (EE)   Towers for radio, television and communication facilities.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review is required.
      (2)   Proof of insurance. The construction contractor of the
communication tower must provide proof of insurance or a bond, acceptable to
the County Board of Commissioners prior to commencement of construction.
      (3)   Abandonment. All towers and antennas not used for a period of 12
consecutive months shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed. The
applicant must furnish a copy of the relevant portion of an executed lease,
which identifies the applicant’s obligation to remove abandoned or unused
towers, concrete footings, anchors, supporting equipment and antennas prior to
the issuance of a conditional use permit to erect a tower. The county shall
require financial assurances including bonds in an amount sufficient to cover
costs of removal of towers, buildings, concrete footings, anchors, supporting
equipment and antennas. An engineer’s cost estimate which documents removal
costs of the tower, building, concrete footings, anchors, supporting equipment
and antennas shall be submitted with the conditional use permit application.
Such engineer’s cost estimate is to assist the Board of Commissioners in
determining the amount of financial assurance necessary to cover removal costs
of such towers, buildings, concrete footings, anchors, supporting equipment and
antennas. If any towers, buildings, concrete footings, anchors, supporting
equipment and antennas have not been removed within 90 days’ written notice by
the county after abandonment, the county shall have the right to remove the
towers, buildings, concrete footings, anchors, supporting equipment and
antennas, and assess the property.
      (4)   Lighting. Un-regulated lighting shall be deflected downward and
away from road right-of-way and nearby or adjacent residential or agricultural
districts.
      (5)   Fall zone. The communication tower shall be setback a distance
equal to or greater than 1.1 times the height of the structure from any
property line or public right-of-way so that the fall zone is entirely within
the property on which the antenna is located.
      (6)   The communication tower and any structures built on the property
shall comply with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
   (FF)   Truck terminal, truck stop, freight terminal.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (5)   Buffers. Buffers shall be installed meeting the standards found in
§
6.15.
      (6)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
      (7)   Noise. Additional controls may be established to control noise
during the operation of the facility, including controls of hours of operation.
      (8)   Spills. All chemicals, hazardous materials, solid waste and
nutrients and/or the like shall be properly used or disposed of by legal,
environmentally sound methods. Any spills resulting from the use of such
chemicals, hazardous materials or the like shall be properly reported,
contained and mitigated as the State Pollution Control Agency may deem
necessary.
   (GG)   Veterinary and animal clinic and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals including kennel and animal crematorium.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Facility design. All veterinary clinics or hospitals shall provide
indoor facilities having adequate heating, ventilation and lighting and outdoor
facilities having shelter from the elements. Facilities shall have proper
drainage and a plan for manure management.
      (3)   Exercise areas. All animal runs or exercise areas shall be located
at least 100 feet from any adjoining property line if there is a residence or
platted residential lot within 1,000 feet of such runs or exercise areas. If
there is no residence or platted lot within 1,000 feet, the setbacks of the
animal runs or exercise areas shall be equal to the accessory building setback
of the underlying district. Outdoor animal runs or exercise areas are
prohibited within the VMX Village Mixed-Use District, UE Urban Expansion
District and LR Limited Residential District.
      (4)   Licenses. Facilities must obtain all required state and federal
licenses or operational permits.
      (5)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (6)   Animal crematorium. An animal crematorium may be operated in
connection with a veterinary clinic or as a stand-alone facility that provides
services to a veterinary clinic or clinics. An animal crematorium shall only be
used for the disposal of animals. A stand-alone animal crematorium facility
shall provide no outside appearance of the operation and shall not include a
sign. Stand-alone crematoriums shall pick-up and deliver animals from
veterinary clinics and shall have no visitors other than employees or
inspectors. Animal pick-up shall be done in leak-proof containers. The
following standards for animal crematoriums shall be met.
         (a)   Setback. The crematorium shall be located in a structure and be
at least 500 feet from any residence other than the owner of the property.
         (b)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
         (c)   Parking. There shall be at least one parking space available for
each employee working at the site at any time.
         (d)   Refrigeration. Deceased animals stored on the site prior to
disposal shall be kept under refrigeration to eliminate the possibility of odor
emanating from the animal.
         (e)   Furnaces. The furnaces shall use natural gas or propane as the
heat source for the furnace.
         (f)   Performance standards. Incinerator must be adhere to the State
Pollution Control Agency guidelines as follows:
            1.   Capable of producing emissions not to exceed 20% opacity;
            2.   Fitted with an afterburner that maintains flue gases at
1,200°F for at least 0.3 seconds; and
            3.   Ash from the incinerator must be handled in such a manner as
to prevent particulate matter from becoming airborne and shall be properly
disposed of.
   (HH)   Warehouse distribution facility.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (5)   Buffers. Buffers shall be installed meeting the standards found in
§
6.15.
      (6)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
      (7)   Noise. Additional controls may be established to control noise
during the operation of the facility, including controls of hours of operation.
      (8)   Architect or engineered design. This project is required to be
designed by a licensed engineer or architect in accordance with the State Board
of Architecture, Engineering, Land Surveying, Landscape Architecture,
Geoscience and Interior Design.
   (II)   Water-oriented commercial business.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required.
      (2)   Street access. The site shall have access to a hard surfaced road
of sufficient capacity to accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (3)   Access. Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
      (4)   Parking. Parking and loading shall meet the standards found in §
6.15.
      (5)   Lighting. Any lighting used for outdoor illumination on a
commercial property shall be installed to deflect light away from adjoining
property and public streets. The sources of light shall be hooded or controlled
so light does not shine upward nor onto adjoining property.
      (6)   Days and hours of operation. Approval for this use shall specify
the days and hours of operation.
   (JJ)   Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS).
      (1)   Purpose. This ordinance is established to regulate the installation
and operation of wind energy conversion systems (WECS) within the county not
otherwise subject to siting and oversight by the state.
      (2)   Permit requirements.
         (a)   The application for all WECS shall include the following
information:
            1.   The names of project applicant;
            2.   The name of the project owner;
            3.   The legal description and address of the project;
            4.   A description of the project including: number, type, name
plate generating capacity, tower height, rotor diameter and total height of all
wind turbines and meteorological towers and means of interconnecting with the
electrical grid;
            5.   Site layout, including the location of property lines, wind
turbines, electrical wires, interconnection points with the electrical grid and
all related accessory structures. The site layout shall include distances and
be drawn to scale;
            6.   Engineer’s certification; and
            7.   Documentation of land ownership or legal control of the
property.
         (b)   The application for commercial WECS (projects above 100 kw but
less than 5,000 kw in total name plate capacity) shall also include:
            1.   The latitude and longitude of individual wind turbines;
            2.   A USGS topographical map, or map with similar data, of the
property and surrounding area, including any other WECS within ten rotor
diameters of the proposed WECS;
            3.   Location of wetlands, scenic and natural areas (including
bluffs) within 1,320 feet of the proposed WECS;
            4.   An acoustical analysis that shows to the satisfaction of the
Planning Commission that the WECS will comply with Minnesota Rules, Chapter
7030 state noise statutes;
            5.   Evidence of a power purchase agreement;
            6.   A construction plan that includes transportation schedule and
descriptions of over-weight and over-lengths materials to be transported to the
site, necessary utility and roadway modifications, road detours (if necessary)
and financial guarantee that utilities and roadways will be returned to pre-
construction conditions;
            7.   FAA permit application;
            8.   Location of all known communication antennas within two miles
of the proposed WECS;
            9.   Decommissioning plan; and
            10.   Description of potential impacts on nearby WECS and wind
resources on adjacent properties.
         (c)   Aggregated projects procedures. Aggregated projects may jointly
submit a single application and be reviewed under joint proceedings, including
notices, hearings, reviews and as appropriate approvals. Permits will be issued
and recorded separately. Joint applications will be assessed fees as one
project. Aggregated projects of 5 MW or more in total name plate capacity shall
be licensed and approved through state statutes.
      (3)   Tower setback and dimensional standards. All towers setbacks shall
adhere to the following setbacks listed below.
         (a)   Minimum setbacks for non-commercial wind turbines:
            1.   Property line 1.1 times the total height; and
            2.   Public road right-of-way 1.1 times the total height.
         (b)   Minimum setbacks for commercial wind turbines:
            1.   Property line 1.1 times the total height;
            2.   Public road right-of-way 1.1 times the total height;
            3.   Residential dwelling 750 feet; and
            4.   Wetlands, USFW Types III, IV and V 600 feet.
         (c)   Minimum setbacks for meteorological towers:
            1.   Property line 1.1 times the total height;
            2.   Public road right-of-way 1.1 times the total height;
            3.   Residential dwelling 1.1 times the total height; and
            4.   Wetlands, USFW Types III, IV and V 600 feet.
         (d)   Essential services setback standards. Substations and feeder
line setback standards shall be determined by regulations governing essential
services in Article 7.
         (e)   Wind generation mechanical clearance. Rotor blades or airfoils
must maintain at least 12 feet of clearance between their lowest point and the
ground.
         (f)   Maximum height of non-commercial WECS is 200 feet.
      (4)   Safety and other design standards.
         (a)   Engineering certification. For all WECS, the manufacture’s
engineer or another qualified engineer shall certify that the turbine,
foundation and tower design of the WECS is within accepted professional
standards, given local soil and climate conditions.
         (b)   Fire Protection and Emergency Response Plan. A fire prevention
and emergency response plan for all phases of the life of the facility. The
plan shall address major concerns associated with the terrain, weather
conditions and access to the tower in the event of an emergency.
         (c)   Required signage. For all commercial WECS, a sign or signs shall
be posted on the tower, transformer and substation warning of high voltage.
Signs with emergency contact information shall also be posted on the turbine or
at another suitable point. Signage shall comply with standards found in Article
5.
         (d)   Required guy wire visibility. For all guyed towers, visible and
reflective objects, such as plastic sleeves, reflectors or tape, shall be
placed on the guy wire anchor points and along the outer and innermost guy
wires up to a height of eight feet above the ground.
         (e)   Tower configuration. All wind turbines, which are part of a
commercial WECS, shall be installed with a tubular, monopole type tower.
         (f)   Color and finish. AN wind turbines and towers that are part of a
commercial WECS shall be white, grey or another non-obtrusive color. Blades may
be black in order to facilitate deicing. Finishes shall be matte or non-
reflective.
         (g)   Lighting. Lighting, including lighting intensity and frequency
of strobe, shall adhere to but not exceed requirements established by Federal
Aviation Administration permits and regulations. Red strobe lights are
preferred for nighttime illumination to reduce impacts on migrating birds. Red
pulsating incandescent lights should be avoided.
         (h)   Feeder lines. All communications and feeder lines, equal to or
less than 34.5 kV in capacity, installed as part of a WECS shall be buried.
Feeder lines installed as part of a WECS shall not be considered an essential
service.
         (i)   Waste disposal. Solid and hazardous wastes, including but not
limited to crates, packaging materials, damaged or worn parts, as well as used
oils and lubricants, shall be removed from the site promptly and disposed of in
accordance with all applicable local, state and federal regulations.
         (j)   Discontinuation and decommissioning. A WECS shall be considered
a discontinued use after one year without energy production, unless a plan is
developed and submitted to the Zoning Administrator outlining the steps and
schedule for returning the WECS to service. All WECS and accessory facilities
shall be removed to four feet below ground level within 90 days of the
discontinuation of use.
         (k)   Plan. Each commercial WECS shall have a decommissioning plan
outlining the anticipated means and cost of removing WECS at the end of their
serviceable life or upon becoming a discontinued use. The cost estimates shall
be made by a competent party; such as a certified professional engineer, a
contractor capable of decommissioning or a person with suitable expertise or
experience with decommissioning. The plan shall also identify the financial
resources that will be available to pay for the decommissioning and removal of
the WECS and accessory facilities.
         (l)   Orderly development. Upon issuance of a conditional use permit,
all commercial WECS shall notify the Environmental Quality Board Power Plant
Siting Act Program staff of the project location and details on the survey form
specified by the Environmental Quality Board.
         (m)   Noise. All WECS shall comply with Minnesota Rules, Part 7030
governing noise.
         (n)   Federal Aviation Administration. All WECS shall comply with FAA
standards and permits.
         (o)   Interference. The applicant shall minimize or mitigate
interference with electromagnetic communications, such as radio, telephone,
microwaves or television signals cause by any WECS. The applicant shall notify
all communication tower operators within five miles of the proposed WECS
location upon application to the county for permits. No WECS shall be
constructed so as to interfere with County or State Department of
Transportation microwave transmissions. The burden shall be on the applicant to
prove that the WECS will not interfere with the county’s emergency response
communication system.
         (p)   Avoid damage to roads. The applicant shall identify all county,
city or township roads to be used for the purpose of transporting WECS,
substation parts, cement and/or equipment for construction, operation or
maintenance of the WECS and obtain applicable weight and size permits from the
impacted road authority(ies) prior to construction.
         (q)   Drainage and road network. The applicant shall be responsible
for immediate repair of damage to public drainage and road network stemming
from construction, operation or maintenance of the WECS.
   (KK)   Retreat house. Conditionally permitted in A-1 Agriculture Protection
District and the AIC Agriculture Interpretive Center District.
      (1)   The owner/operator must allow periodic inspections by the County
Planning and Zoning Department and County Public Health Services Department.
      (2)   A guest registration log must be maintained by the owner/operator
and made available for review by the County Planning and Zoning Office or
Public Health Services Department.
      (3)   Any activities occurring upon the site shall not cause a nuisance
due to noise, odor, lighting, vibration or traffic generation.
      (4)   The operations involved within the structure are not to involve the
retail sale of goods or commodities unrelated to the event occurring at the
facility.
      (5)   A certificate of liability insurance for the structures, property,
occupants, visitors and events shall be submitted annually to the County
Planning and Zoning office.
      (6)   The owner/operator shall obtain all licenses required by the state
or the County Public Health Services Department.
      (7)   The property must have at least one parking space per bed within
the retreat house.
      (8)   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall
contain at least 70 square feet of usable floor space, and every room occupied
for sleeping purposes by more than one person shall contain not less than 60
square feet of usable floor space for each occupant thereof. Under no
circumstances shall there be provided less than 400 cubic feet of air space per
occupant. Beds shall be spaced at least three feet apart when placed side by
side. No sleeping quarters shall be provided in any basement having more than
half of its clear floor to ceiling height below the average grade of the
adjoining ground. When strict compliance herewith is impracticable, the Board
may waive any of the provisions of this paragraph subject to such conditions as
may be deemed desirable in the individual case.
      (9)   The Planning Commission shall take into consideration the following
information and performance standards in which to base their recommendation on
the conditional use permit application to the County Board: the hours of
operation; the maximum stay of the occupants; the distance to any surrounding
feedlots; the number and proximity of dwellings within one mile surrounding the
proposed retreat center; the impact on local traffic.
      (10)   In addition to the other requirements, the application for a
conditional use permit shall be accompanied by three copies of the plans which
indicate or address the following:
         (a)   Stated purpose and type of the retreat center;
         (b)   Location and size of all existing and proposed physical
improvements such as buildings, landscaping, parking areas and the like;
         (c)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, water systems (natural or
human-made), and utilities servicing the site;
         (d)   Existing and proposed surface drainage;
         (e)   Existing or proposed location for exterior lighting;
         (f)   Location and width of all streets abutting the site;
         (g)   Proposed schedule of events and any proposed special events,
which consist of any events that are not a part of the normal operating
schedule;
         (h)   Certificate of liability insurance for the structures, property,
occupants, visitors, and events proposed;
         (i)   List the number of adult caretaker(s) on duty and on site and
the times they will be present;
         (j)   Dimensioned floor plan indicating the rooms or units to be used;
         (k)   On-site advertising shall be limited to one sign per entrance,
not to exceed the requirements of Article 4 General Regulations, §
4.12 (sign regulations) and location must be described or shown on the site
plan; and
         (l)   Any licenses or permits required by the Waseca County Public
Health Services Department, including, but not limited to, kitchen and food
facilities, water supply, septic systems and lodging requirements.
      (11)   Maximum length of stay for guests shall be limited to seven
consecutive days or six nights per week. Additionally, within one calendar
year, a single guest may utilize the business’ services at a maximum not to
exceed 30 days.
      (12)   Maximum permitted number of rooms utilized for sleeping purposes
within an establishment shall be not more than six bedrooms for those parcels
residentially zoned.
      (13)   There shall be no cooking facilities separate from the principal
kitchen within the structure to be utilized for or by guests and/or occupants
of the retreat house.
   (LL)   Retreat center. Conditionally permitted in the HC Highway Commercial
District and the Agriculture Protection District, AIC Agriculture Interpretive
Center District and the LR Limited Residential.
      (1)   Standards in subsections (KK)(1) through (KK)(13) above listed for
retreat houses shall also apply to retreat centers.
      (2)   The maximum stay of the occupants cannot exceed two weeks, unless
otherwise established by the County Board.
      (3)   All new structures and modification to existing structures shall
require a zoning permit.
      (4)   Retreat center units shall not be converted into permanent dwelling
units, unless an application is approved showing that the units meet the
requirements of the zoning ordinance and County Public Health Services
Department rules and regulations.
      (5)   Existing buildings, in which the public may have access, used as
any part of the Retreat Center must pass Building Code inspections prior to it
being utilized by the retreat center.
      (6)   All county shoreland requirements and state planned unit
development requirements shall apply.
   (MM)   Breweries, taprooms and micro-distilleries. This subsection addresses
performance standards for the establishment and operation of a small brewery,
microdistillery and brewer taprooms to be in compliance with M.S. Chapter 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   Production capacity. The annual production capacity of a small
brewery or microdistillery may not exceed the amounts specified in M.S. §
340A.301, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Uses. The following uses may be permitted at a Small Brewery or
Microdistillery in the I Industrial or HC Highway Commercial District or as a
conditional use in the A-1 Agriculture Protection District:
         (a)   Aging processing and storage of beer (brewery) or distilled
spirits (microbrewery) in bulk;
         (b)   Milling, malting, mashing, lautering, boiling, fermenting,
conditioning, filtering of grain and fruit inside of a structure;
         (c)   Bottling, kegging, storage and wholesaling of kegs and bottled
beer or distilled spirits; and
         (d)   Office use associated with the facility.
      (3)   Premises sampling room. Each sampling room (microdistillery) or
taproom (brewery) in which distilled spirits or beer is to be manufactured and
sold in the A-1 Agriculture Protection District must apply for a conditional
use permit from the County Planning and Zoning Department and must conform to
all on-premises permit requirements if the brewery intends to allow the
consumption of beer in its tasting room; however, there shall be no requirement
for a brewery with a tasting room to maintain kitchen facilities or serve food.
Subject to the limitations of M.S. § 340A.301, as it may be amended from time
to time, the following uses associated with a premises sampling room or taproom
may be permitted at a microdistillery or small brewery in the I Industrial or
HC Highway Commercial District or as a conditional use in the A-1 Agriculture
Protection District, which would include preparation and sale of food:
         (a)   Display and sale of art and craft items;
         (b)   Sale of retail products such as glassware, distillery or brewer
literature, and accessories, apparel, cheese products, and items directly
related to beer or distilled spirit products;
         (c)   Indoor and outdoor live music shall be permitted during the
hours of 12:00 p.m. and 11:00 p.m. on Friday, Saturday and Sunday except Indoor
and outdoor live music is restricted in the A-1 Agricultural Protection
District to the hours of 12:00 pm to 9:00 pm Friday, Saturday and Sunday;
         (d)   On-site marketing of beer or distilled spirits, including up to
three special events annually and as limited by the special events provisions
of the Waseca Unified Development Code;
         (e)   Preparation and serving of food (restaurant) will be subject to
the requirements of the County Public Health Services Department and will only
be allowed as a conditional use and only as related to the Microdistillery or
Brewery operation in the A-1 Agriculture Protection District. Unified
Development Code, Article 6 Zoning District Regulations, § 16 Specific
Standards for Commercial and Industrial Uses apply as well as related to the
microdistillery or brewery operation in the Districts of A-1 Agricultural
Protection, HC Highway Commercial and I Industrial;
         (f)   Tours;
         (g)   Retail sale (as licensed for on-sale or off-sale) of beer or
distilled spirits fermented and bottled at the microdistillery or brewery; and
         (h)   Retail sale of wine (on-sale only with appropriate license).
      (4)   The following standards shall apply to all small breweries or
microdistilleries including tasting rooms or brewer taprooms.
         (a)   A site plan shall be required.
         (b)   All other applicable licenses and permits shall be obtained from
the appropriate agency and maintained in association with the operation of the
small brewery, microdistillery and/or brewer taproom. Copies of current
appropriate licenses and/or permits shall be submitted to the County Planning
and Zoning Department.
         (c)   The small brewery, microdistillery and brewer taproom located on
a site within the A-1 Agriculture Protection District shall have a minimum
parcel size of five acres and must be located at least 500 feet from any
residence other than the owner.
         (d)   The small brewery, microdistillery and brewer taproom must
comply with the provisions in the county code of ordinances relating to parking
and loading requirements.
         (e)   The retail sale of products fermented at the facility must
comply with state statutes and County Ordinance No. 10 regarding liquor
licensing and must be incidental to the primary operation of the brewery or
microdistillery.
         (f)   The total space for the sale of non-brewery related items
including food, beverages other than beer, glassware, literature and
accessories, shall not exceed 20% of the total square footage of the structure,
of the small brewery or microdistillery.
         (g)   The subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS) and all associated
components shall be maintained in accordance with MPCA SSTS standards. The SSTS
of a small brewery, microdistillery and brewer taproom shall be separate from
any residential use associated with the property.
   (NN)   Farm winery. This subsection addresses performance standards for the
establishment and operation of farm wineries.
      (1)   Production capacity. The annual production capacity of a farm
winery may not exceed the number of gallons permitted in M.S. § 340A.315, as it
may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Uses. A farm winery may be allowed as a permitted use in the I
General Industrial District or HC Highway Commercial District or as a
conditional use in the A-1 Agricultural Protection District upon the granting
of a conditional use permit:
         (a)   Aging processing and storage of wine in bulk;
         (b)   Crushing of grapes inside or outside of a structure;
         (c)   Bottling storage and wholesaling of bottled wine; and
         (d)   Office use associated with the winery.
      (3)   Prohibited uses. The following uses are not permitted at a farm
winery: retail sale of items that are not permitted under the state statute
farm winery license.
      (4)   Premises winery sampling room. Each sampling room for a farm winery
in which wine is to be manufactured and sold in the A-1 Agriculture Protection
District must apply for a conditional use permit from the County Planning and
Zoning Department and must conform to all on-premises permit requirements if
the farm winery intends to allow the consumption of wine in its tasting room;
however, there shall be no requirement for a farm winery with a tasting room to
maintain kitchen facilities or serve food. Subject to the limitations of M.S. §
340A.301, as it may be amended from time to time, the following uses associated
with a premises sampling room may be permitted at a farm winery in the I
Industrial or HC Highway Commercial District or as a conditional use in the A-
1 Agriculture Protection District, which would include preparation and sale of
food:
         (a)   Display and sale of art and craft items, subject to the
limitations specified under the prohibited uses;
         (b)   Sale of retail products such as glassware, wine literature and
accessories, apparel, cheese products, other wine related products such as
fruit or vegetables, and items directly related to wine products;
         (c)   Indoor and outdoor live music between the hours of 12:00 p.m. to
11:00 p.m. Friday, Saturday and Sunday. Outdoor live music is restricted in the
A-1 Agricultural Protection District to the hours of 12:00 p.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on Friday, Saturday and Sunday;
         (d)   On-site marketing of wine or distilled spirits, including up to
three special events annually and as limited by the special events provisions
of the County Unified Development Code;
         (e)   Preparation and serving of food (restaurant) will be subject to
the requirements of the Waseca County Public Health Services Department and
will only be allowed as a conditional use and only as related to the Farm
Winery operation in the A-1 Agriculture Protection District. Unified
Development Code, Article 6 Zoning District Regulations, § 16 Specific
Standards for Commercial and Industrial Uses apply as well as related to the
farm winery operation in the Districts of A-1 Agricultural Protection, HC
Highway Commercial and I Industrial;
         (f)   Tours;
         (g)   Retail sale (as licensed for on-sale or off-sale) of wine or
distilled spirits fermented and bottled at the farm winery; and
         (h)   Retail sale of beer (on-sale only with appropriate license).
      (5)   Standards. The following standards shall apply to all farm
wineries, including tasting or sampling rooms.
         (a)   A site plan will be required.
         (b)   All other applicable licenses and permits shall be obtained from
the appropriate agency and maintained in association with the operation of the
winery. Copies of current appropriate licenses and/or permits shall be
submitted to the County Planning and Zoning Department.
         (c)   The farm winery shall be located on a minimum parcel size of
five acres in the A-1 Agricultural Protection District. In addition in the A-
1 AG Protection District, the winery must be located at least 500 feet from any
residence other than the owner.
         (d)   The farm winery must comply with the provisions in the county
code of ordinances relating to parking and loading requirements.
         (e)   The retail sale of wine must comply with state statutes and
County Ordinance No. 10 regarding liquor licensing and must be incidental to
the primary operation of the farm winery.
         (f)   The total space for the sale of non-wine related items including
food, beverages other than wine, glassware, wine literature and accessories,
shall not exceed 20% of the total square footage of the structure of the farm
winery.
         (g)   The subsurface sewage treatment system (SSTS) and all associated
components shall be maintained in accordance with MPCA SSTS standards. The SSTS
of a farm winery shall be separate from any residential use associated with the
property.
   (OO)   Industrial waste processing facility. New industrial wastewater
treatment facilities shall be allowed as conditional uses in the A-
1 Agriculture Protection District, HC Highway Commercial District and I
Industrial District. Industrial wastewater treatment facilities shall comply
with the following requirements.
      (1)   Site plan. Site plan review shall be required. Any new industrial
wastewater treatment facility shall meet the minimum standards of §
6.15 of the Uniform Development Code providing for general standards for
commercial and industrial uses.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Treatment pond to residence: 1,000 feet;
         (b)   Spray Field to residence: 500 feet;
         (c)   Treatment pond or spray field to a public right-of-way: 100
feet;
         (d)   Treatment pond or spray field to a public or private ditch: 100
feet; and
         (e)   Treatment pond or spray field to any body of water, perennial or
intermittent stream, or wetland: 100 feet.
      (3)   Access. If the Planning Commission determines it necessary, the
site shall have access to a hard surfaced road of sufficient capacity to
accommodate the traffic that the use will generate.
      (4)   Local, state and federal regulations. Industrial wastewater
treatment facilities shall comply with all applicable local, state and federal
laws and rules and regulations. No zoning permit shall be issued until such
time as the applicant provides evidence of compliance with state and federal
regulations.
   (PP)   Solar farms. Solar farms are the primary land use for the parcel on
which the array is located and are distinguished from solar arrays that are an
accessory use. Solar farms are composed of multiple solar panels on multiple
mounting systems (poles or racks), and generally have a direct current (DC)
rated capacity greater than 100 kilowatts. Solar farms are permitted by
conditional use permit and/or by zoning permit.
      (1)   Stormwater management and erosion and sediment control. Stormwater
management and erosion and sediment control shall meet the requirements of §
5.04.
      (2)   Setbacks. All solar panels in the array will be considered a
principal use and shall be required to meet the setbacks of a principal
structure. In addition, other than on the property of an owner, no solar farm
shall be located within 500 feet of a residence.
      (3)   Foundations. The manufacturer’s engineer or another qualified
engineer shall certify that the foundation and design of the solar panels is
within accepted professional standards, given local soil and climate
conditions.
      (4)   Other standards and codes. All solar farms shall be in compliance
with any applicable local, state and federal regulatory standards, including
the State Uniform Building Code, as amended; and the National Electric Code, as
amended.
      (5)   Power and communication lines. Power and communication lines
running between banks of solar panels and to electric substations or
interconnections with buildings shall be buried underground. Exemptions may be
granted by the Planning and Zoning Administrator in instances where shallow
bedrock, watercourses or other elements of the natural landscape interfere with
the ability to bury lines.
      (6)   Application requirements for conditional use or zoning permit. A
site plan of existing conditions showing the following (any drawing shall be
submitted in paper format drawn to scale and in AutoCAD DWG format):
         (a)   Existing property lines and property lines extending 100 feet
from the exterior boundaries, including the names of the adjacent property
owners and current use of those properties;
         (b)   Existing public and private roads, showing widths of the roads
and any associated easements;
         (c)   Location and size of any abandoned wells, sewage treatment
systems and dumps;
         (d)   Existing buildings and any impervious surface;
         (e)   Topography at two-foot intervals and source of contour interval,
unless determined otherwise by the Department. A contour map of the surrounding
properties may also be required;
         (f)   Existing vegetation (list type and percent of coverage; i.e.,
grassland, plowed field, wooded areas and the like);
         (g)   Waterways, watercourses, lakes and public water wetlands;
         (h)   Delineated wetland boundaries;
         (i)   The 100-year flood elevation and regulatory flood protection
elevation, if available;
         (j)   Floodway, flood fringe and/or general floodplain district
boundary, if applicable;
         (k)   The Shoreland District boundary and the appropriate shoreland
setback, if any portion of the project is located in a Shoreland Overlay
District;
         (l)   Mapped soils according to the county soil survey;
         (m)   Surface water drainage patterns;
         (n)   In the shoreland overlay district, the ordinary high water level
and the highest known water level; and
         (o)   In the shoreland overlay district, the toe and top of any bluffs
within the project boundaries.
      (7)   Site plan of proposed solar farm. The following information shall
be provided to the Planning and Zoning Department prior to issuance of the
conditional use permit or zoning permit (any drawing shall be submitted in
paper format drawn to scale and in AutoCAD DWG format):
         (a)   Location and spacing of solar panels;
         (b)   Location of access roads;
         (c)   Location of underground or overhead electric lines connecting
the solar farm to the building, substation or other electric load;
         (d)   New electrical equipment other than at the existing building or
substation that is the connection point for the solar farm; and
         (e)   Proposed erosion and sediment control measures and proposed
stormwater management measures as required in Article 5 of this ordinance.
      (8)   Large ground-mounted systems. Ground-mounted solar systems that
result in the creation of one or more acres of impervious surface must comply
with §
5.04. Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the proposed solar
energy conversion system and its relationship to structures on adjacent lots
(if any).
      (9)   Manufacturer’s specifications. Manufacturer’s specifications and
recommended installation methods for all major equipment, including solar
panels, mounting systems and foundations for poles or racks;
      (10)   The number and size of the panels to be installed;
      (11)   A description of the method of connecting the array to a building
or substation;
      (12)   A copy of any easement required to cross private property or any
permit to use any public right-of-way to connect the project to the utility
grid or substation.
      (13)   A copy of the interconnection agreement with the local electric
utility or a written explanation outlining why an interconnection agreement is
not necessary;
      (14)   Contractor’s name and license number;
      (15)   Contractor certificate of liability insurance; and
      (16)   A decommissioning plan shall be required to ensure that facilities
are properly removed after their useful life. Decommissioning of solar panels
must occur in the event they are not in use for 12 consecutive months. The plan
shall include provisions for removal of all structures and foundations,
restoration of soil and vegetation and a plan ensuring financial resources will
be available to fully decommission the site. Disposal of structures and/or
foundations shall meet the provisions of state law and the requirements of the
county solid waste ordinance. The Board may require the posting of a bond,
letter of credit or the establishment of an escrow account to ensure proper
decommissioning in an amount equal to the estimated cost to restore the site if
the use is discontinued.
   (QQ)   Standards for solar energy systems, accessory. Solar energy systems
are a permitted accessory use requiring a zoning permit in all zoning
districts, subject to the following standards.
      (1)   Accessory building limit. Solar systems, either roof- or ground-
mounted, do not count as an accessory building for the purpose of meeting
limits on the number of accessory structures allowed per residential lot or the
coverage limits.
      (2)   Height. Active solar systems are subject to the following height
requirements:
         (a)   Building or roof- mounted solar systems shall not exceed the
maximum allowed height in any zoning district. For purposes of height
measurement, solar systems other than building-integrated systems shall be
considered to be mechanical devices and are restricted consistent with other
building-mounted mechanical devices for the zoning district in which the system
is being installed.
         (b)   Ground or pole-mounted solar systems shall not exceed 15 feet in
height when oriented at maximum tilt if the system is located between the
accessory structure setback and the principal structure setback; and shall not
exceed 25 feet maximum tilt if the system meets the principal structure setback
from the zoning district.
      (3)   Location within lot. Solar systems must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district.
      (4)   Roof-mounted solar systems. In addition to the building setback,
the collector surface and mounting devices for roof-mounted solar systems that
are parallel to the roof surface shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter
of the building on which the system is mounted or built. The collector and
racking for roof-mounted systems that have a greater pitch than the roof
surface shall be set back from all roof edges by at least two feet. Exterior
piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the
perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure.
      (5)   Ground-mounted solar systems. Ground-mounted solar energy systems
may not extend into the side-yard or rear setback when oriented at minimum
design tilt.
      (6)   Large ground-mounted systems. Ground-mounted solar systems that
result in the creation of one or more acres of impervious surface must comply
with §
5.04.
      (7)   Maximum coverage. Roof or building mounted solar systems, excluding
building-integrated systems, shall not cover more than 80% of the south-facing
or flat roof upon which the panels are mounted. The total collector surface
area of pole or ground mount systems outside of the Agriculture Protection
District shall not exceed 1% of the lot area. Pole or ground mounted systems
must meet the impervious surface requirements of the underlying district in
which the system is located or have a stormwater management plan and meet the
erosion and sediment control requirements of §
5.04.
      (8)   Approved solar components. Electric solar system components must
have an Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listing.
      (9)   Compliance with State Electric Code. All photovoltaic systems shall
comply with the State Electric Code.
      (10)   Utility notification. No grid-intertie photovoltaic system shall
be installed until evidence has been given to the Planning and Zoning
Department that the owner has notified the utility company of the customer’s
intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator. Off-grid systems
are exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 108, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 111, passed 10-1-
2013; Ord. 112, passed 1-7-2014; Ord. 113, passed 4-15-2014; Ord. 117, passed
6-17-2014; Ord. 127, passed 11-7-2017; Ord. 138, passed 9-3-2019; Ord. 141,
passed 5-5-2020; Ord. 152, passed 10-18-2022; Ord. 158, passed 10-1-2024; Ord.
160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.17 HC HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Highway Commercial District is intended to:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the county’s economic base and promote
employment;
      (2)   Accommodate business uses that meet the needs of the traveling
public, including those uses which may be incompatible with the predominantly
retail uses allowed within cities’ business districts;
      (3)   Encourage high quality development that avoids or mitigates impacts
to natural systems and less intensive uses; and
      (4)   Ensure that the efficiency and safety of arterial roadways are
maintained through access control management.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)    Agriculture, and incidental agriculture-related uses including
farm homesteads and agricultural building(s);
      (2)   Agricultural chemicals, fertilizer sales, including the blending of
fertilizer;
      (3)   Agriculturally-oriented business, including auction houses;
      (4)   Feed and seed sales;
      (5)   Grain elevator, grain storage and drying (commercial);
      (6)   Natural resource manufacturing and processing;
      (7)   Seasonal produce stand;
      (8)    Accessory dwelling unit, pursuant to standards in § 4.03;
      (9)   Daycare center;
      (10)   Local governmental agency building or facility, community center
Town Hall and accessory building(s);
      (11)   Parks and public recreation areas;
      (12)   Go-cart track, miniature golf, skating rink (unenclosed);
      (13)   Gun or archery range, indoor;
      (14)   Skating rink (enclosed), dance hall, game arcade, bowling alley,
health club;
      (15)   Riding academy, boarding stable;
      (16)   Art, photography, crafts gallery, pottery shop, studios;
      (17)   Automobile repair;
      (18)   Automobile service station, car wash;
      (19)   Automobile, trailer, marine, recreational vehicle and farm
implement sales;
      (20)   Bakery, coffee shop;
      (21)   Barber, beauty shop;
      (22)   Bed and breakfast;
      (23)   Building material sales and storage, lumber yard, garden store,
commercial greenhouse, manufactured home sales;
      (24)   Convenience gas and goods sales;
      (25)   Convention center, exhibit hall;
      (26)   Flea market, auction site;
      (27)   Laundry, laundromat;
      (28)   Motel, hotel;
      (29)   Office, professional or medical;
      (30)   Office, other than professional or medical;
      (31)   Office services;
      (32)   Repair services. Repair service includes, but are not limited to,
the repair of: appliances, furniture and upholstery, jewelry, shoes, musical
instruments, watches, and other articles generally found for sale in retail
sales establishments;
      (33)   Restaurant (drive-in), theater (drive-in), or similar uses that
provide goods and services to patrons in automobiles;
      (34)   Restaurant;
      (35)   Retail sales establishment. Retail sales establishments include,
but are not limited to, establishments that offer the following goods and/or
service: antique and collectibles, bicycle sales and repair, books, clothing,
convenience food goods, drugs, groceries, guns and ammunition, hardware,
jewelry, music, musical instruments, newspapers and magazines, office furniture
and supplies, picture framing, recreation equipment sales and service,
stationery, tobacco, tourist related sales and service, video sales and
rentals;
      (36)   Shopping center;
      (37)   Tavern, club;
      (38)   Veterinary and animal clinic and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals including kennel;
      (39)   Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yard;
      (40)    Parking facility;
      (41)   Solar energy systems (accessory);
      (42)   Swimming pool, hot tub;
      (43)   Water-oriented accessory structures (docks, lifts and the like);
      (44)   Agritourism;
      (45)   Agricultural direct-market business;
      (46)   Cannabis retail; and
      (47)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling (see density and other standards);
      (2)   Licensed residential program (up to eight residents);
      (3)   Religious institution;
      (4)   School, public or private;
      (5)   Campground;
      (6)   Golf course, country club, driving range;
      (7)   Gun or archery range, outdoor;
      (8)   Organized motor sports, ATVs, trucks, tractors or motorcycle tracks
or trails (not including auto or other vehicle racing, tracks or events);
      (9)   Paint ball course;
      (10)   Adult uses;
      (11)   Water-oriented commercial business;
      (12)   Advertising sign (off-site);
      (13)   Truck terminal, truck stop, freight terminal;
      (14)   Warehouse distribution facility;
      (15)   Essential services, facilities and structures;
      (16)   Outdoor display;
      (17)    Wind turbine, accessory;
      (18)   Industrial wastewater treatment facility;
      (19)   Solar farms;
      (20)   Cannabis cultivation;
      (21)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (22)   Hemp manufacturer;
      (23)   Cannabis wholesale; and
      (24)   Cannabis transportation.
   (D)   Outdoor display standards. The following standards shall apply to
nonresidential development within the Highway Commercial District: Display of
materials shall be located outside the public right-of-way and shall be
maintained in an orderly condition.
   (E)   Dimensional standards. Development within the Highway Commercial
District shall be subject to the following minimum dimensional standards:
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)   Principal permitted and conditional uses: as necessary to meet
all setbacks and coverage regulations, or as specified by conditional use
permit; and
         (b)   No minimum lot area required for utilities, public uses and
communication towers except as otherwise required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
principal structures:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: 15 feet, or 50 feet from any lot in a residential or
agricultural district; and
         (c)   Rear yard: 15 feet or 50 feet from any lot in a residential or
agricultural district.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
accessory structures:
         (a)   Front yard: same as principal structure;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in sidewall height); and
         (c)   Rear yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in sidewall height).
      (5)   Minimum setbacks, windbreaks and trees:
         (a)   Road right-of-way of less than 100 feet: 20 feet from right-of-
way;
         (b)   Road right-of-way of 100 feet or greater: 15 feet from right-of-
way;
         (c)   From side or rear parcel boundary: 10 feet for windbreaks
consisting of shrubs and 20 feet for trees, as defined; and
         (d)   Side or rear windbreak and tree setbacks may be reduced or
eliminated by agreement of adjoining property owners when the agreement is
filed with the Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Maximum impervious coverage: 65% of lot area; and
      (7)   Maximum height for all structures except agricultural structures,
utilities and communication or wind towers: 35 feet.
   (F)   Access management standards. Access points shall be sited and designed
according to the access management standards in Article 4 of this ordinance. A
maximum of two access points shall be allowed to any county road unless the
County Engineer finds that additional access points are warranted. Access to
state highways requires MnDOT permit.
   (G)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements within this ordinance
and other county ordinances apply to development in the HC District. These
include, but are not limited to, the general regulations in Articles 4 and 5
and the conditional use and specific development standards in Article 3.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 113, passed 4-15-2014; Ord. 117, passed 6-17-
2014; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.18 HO HIGHWAY 14 OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Highway 14 District is to preserve the
scenic and functional value of the U.S. Highway 14 corridor throughout the
county. Objectives of the district are:
      (1)   To promote commercial and industrial development that is accessible
to and visible from Highway 14 and that will present an attractive image while
managing access to ensure safe and efficient travel; and
      (2)   To create consistent and cohesive sign regulations for
identification and advertisement of businesses
   (B)   District application. The Highway Overlay district is established over
an area 500 feet on either side of the Highway 14 right-of-way or easement line
throughout the county.
   (C)   Permitted, conditional and accessory uses. Permitted, conditional and
accessory uses of land are those that are allowed within the underlying
districts.
   (D)   Access management. Highway 14 has been designed with limited access
points in order to promote the safe and efficient use of the highway. Access to
Highway 14 shall be restricted and may be prohibited consistent with the
policies and requirements of the State Department of Transportation. In
approving subdivisions of land, development site plans and building permits,
the county may require any or all of the following access management
techniques.
      (1)   Shared access. Existing parcels and parcels resulting from future
subdivision may be required to share common access points, consistent with
spacing guidelines.
      (2)   Access limitations. Parcels which abut Highway 14 and have access
to intersecting streets or highways shall be required to take access from those
intersecting roads.
      (3)   Traffic impact studies. Development proposals which could result in
traffic trip generation in excess of 100 trips per day, as determined by the
Institute of Traffic Engineers Trip Generation Manual (latest edition), may be
required to complete a traffic impact study.
   (E)   Design and setback standards. The following design standards shall
apply in addition to the requirements of the underlying districts.
      (1)   Setbacks. The minimum setbacks for buildings, parking areas or
other structures from the right-of-way of Highway 14 shall be 25 feet.
      (2)   Site lighting. All lighting shall be directed away from residential
uses and glare impacting the traveling public.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 105, passed 8-2-2011)
§ 6.19 I GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the General Industrial District is to:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the county’s economic base and promote
employment;
      (2)   Provide a district suitable for commercial, general industrial,
manufacturing and processing uses which, due to their size, location and
character, require large sites and separation from residential and similar
uses;
      (3)   Encourage high quality development that avoids or mitigates impacts
to natural systems and less intensive uses; and
      (4)   Ensure that the efficiency and safety of arterial roadways are
maintained through access control management.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)    Agriculture, and incidental agriculture-related uses, including
agricultural building(s) and including farm homesteads;
      (2)   Agricultural chemicals, fertilizer sales;
      (3)   Agriculturally-oriented business;
      (4)   Auction houses;
      (5)   Ethanol or biofuel production, commercial;
      (6)   Feed and seed sales;
      (7)   Grain elevator, grain storage and drying (commercial);
      (8)   Natural resource manufacturing and processing;
      (9)   Seasonal produce stand;
      (10)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (11)    Local governmental agency building or facility, community center,
Town Hall and associated accessory building(s);
      (12)   Parks and public recreation areas;
      (13)   School, trade;
      (14)   Adult uses;
      (15)   Airport, heliport, aircraft rental, sale, servicing, manufacturing
and related services;
      (16)   Automobile, trailer, marine, recreational vehicle and farm
implement sales;
      (17)   Building material sales and storage, lumberyard, garden store,
commercial greenhouse, manufactured home sales;
      (18)   Office services;
      (19)   Repair services. Repair service include, but are not limited to,
the repair of: appliances, furniture and upholstery, jewelry, shoes, musical
instruments, watches and other articles generally found for sale in retail
sales establishments;
      (20)   Cold storage plant, ice plant;
      (21)   Contractor’s yard with outdoor storage;
      (22)   Industrial sales establishment includes: dental instruments and
supplies, medical and surgical instruments and supplies, precision instrument
sales, sign contractor, welding supply, and new and used equipment (except
unlicensed motor vehicles); sales and inventory;
      (23)   Manufacturing, limited, including fight assembly and packing.
Limited manufacturing includes: Manufacture and assembly of cabinets and
woodworking products; camera and photographic products; clothing; computers and
accessories; confectionary and related products; footwear; film and video
equipment; hand and edge tools; handbags and luggage; laboratory instruments
and associated equipment; medical equipment; sports equipment; temperature
controls; telecommunications equipment; bottling or distillation, printing,
publishing, engraving and reproduction, newspaper plant and office, design and
manufacture of patterns;
      (24)   Manufacturing, general. Includes the manufacturing and/or assembly
of these products or conducting these processes: electric lighting and wiring
equipment; electrical products and appliances; fabricated metal, plastic and
rubber products (except tires and inner tubes); glass and glass products;
textiles and fabrics; optical instruments and lenses; gypsum, drywall, plaster
and stone products; machinery and equipment such as engines and turbines,
cooling and refrigeration equipment, and machine tools; metal working such as
stamping, welding, extruding, engraving, plating, grinding, polishing, cleaning
and heat-treating;
      (25)   Truck terminal, truck stop, freight terminal;
      (26)   Warehouse distribution facility;
      (27)    Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yard;
      (28)   Kennels, commercial;
      (29)   Outdoor display;
      (30)   Parking facility;
      (31)   Solar energy systems (accessory);
      (32)   Auction site;
      (33)   Agritourism;
      (34)   Agricultural direct-market;
      (35)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use;
      (36)   Permitted uses in the HC Highway Commercial District; and
      (37)   Food processing plant when connected to municipal water, municipal
sewer, and/or an industrial waste treatment facility.   
   (C)   Conditional uses (see Article 4 for accessory uses).
      (1)   Mineral extraction, mining;
      (2)   Organized motor sports: ATVs, trucks, tractors or motorcycle tracks
or trails (not including auto or other vehicle racing, tracks or events);
      (3)   Automobile repair;
      (4)   Automobile service station, car wash;
      (5)   Convenience gas and goods sales;
      (6)   Restaurant (drive-in), theater (drive-in) or similar uses that
provide goods and services to patrons in automobiles;
      (7)   Veterinary and animal clinic and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals, including kennels;
      (8)   Advertising sign (off-site);
      (9)   Fertilizer manufacture;
      (10)   Storage, bulk;
      (11)   Landfill (sanitary), recycling facility;
      (12)   Salvage yard, recycling facility with incinerator, other
facilities with incinerators;
      (13)   Antenna for radio, television and communication facilities;
      (14)   Essential services, facilities and structures;
      (15)   Wind turbine, accessory;
      (16)   Industrial wastewater treatment facility;
      (17)   Solar farms;
      (18)   Cannabis cultivation;
      (19)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (20)   Hemp manufacturer;
      (21)   Cannabis wholesale;
      (22)   Cannabis delivery; and
      (23)   Conditional uses in the HC Highway Commercial District.
   (D)   Outdoor display standards. Display of materials shall be located
outside the public right-of-way, and shall be maintained in an orderly
condition.
   (E)   Dimensional standards. Development within the General Industrial
District shall be subject to the following minimum dimensional standards:
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)   Principal permitted and conditional uses: as necessary to meet
all setbacks and coverage regulations, or as specified by conditional use
permit; and
         (b)   No minimum lot area required for utilities, public uses and
communication towers except as otherwise required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
principal structures:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: 15 feet, or 50 feet from any lot in a residential or
agricultural district; and
         (c)   Rear yard: 15 feet or 50 feet from any lot in a residential or
agricultural district.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
accessory structures:
         (a)   Front yard: same as principal structure;
         (b)   Side yard: ten feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard: ten feet.
      (5)   Minimum setbacks, windbreaks and trees:
         (a)   Road right-of-way of less than 100 feet: 20 feet from right-of-
way;
         (b)   Road right-of-way of 100 feet or greater: 15 feet from right-of-
way;
         (c)   From side or rear parcel boundary: ten feet for windbreaks
consisting of shrubs and 20 feet for trees, as defined;
         (d)   Side or rear windbreak and tree setbacks may be reduced or
eliminated by agreement of adjoining property owners when the agreement is
filed with the Zoning Administrator and recorded by the County Recorder of
Deeds.
      (6)   Maximum height for all structures except agricultural structures,
utilities and communication or wind towers: 70 feet; and
      (7)   Maximum impervious coverage: 75% of lot area.
   (F)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements within this ordinance
and other County ordinances apply to development in the I District. These
include, but are not limited to, the general regulations in Article 4 and the
conditional use and specific development standards in Article 3.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 113, passed 4-15-2014; Ord. 115, passed 6-17-
2014; Ord. --, passed --; Ord. 142, passed 7-21-2020; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
SPECIAL ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 6.20 UE URBAN EXPANSION DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Urban Expansion District is to implement
the following objectives, based on the goals and policies of the County
Comprehensive Plan:
      (1)   Promote housing development in cities who can provide public
services rather than in agricultural districts;
      (2)   Provide a zoning district that will defer residential development
in areas where city expansion is expected until such land is incorporated into
municipal corporate limits;
      (3)   Avoid premature subdivision of parcels in a low density residential
pattern that would make future provision of public services inefficient;
      (4)   Encourage intergovernmental and area-wide planning to provide for
recreational amenities, street linkages, and inter-parcel stormwater management
for development at the edge of municipalities and a harmonious transition
between rural and urban land uses and development; and
      (5)   Restrict land uses that have the potential to interfere with
orderly urban expansion and subdivisions at urban densities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Agriculture and incidental agriculture-related uses, including
agricultural building(s);
      (2)   Forestry, production of woodland products, nurseries, tree farms;
      (3)   Seasonal produce stand;
      (4)   Wildlife area, fish hatchery and forest preserve owned or operated
by governmental agencies;
      (5)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (6)   Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(B);
      (7)   Licensed residential program (up to eight residents);
      (8)   Daycare center;
      (9)   Local governmental agency building or facility, community center,
Town Hall and associated accessory building(s);
      (10)   Parks and public recreation areas;
      (11)   Religious institution;
      (12)   School, public or private;
      (13)   Flea market, auction site;
      (14)   Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yard;
      (15)   Family daycare;
      (16)   Group family daycare;
      (17)   Solar equipment;
      (18)   Swimming pool, hot tub;
      (19)   Water-oriented accessory structures (docks, lifts and the like);
      (20)   Wind turbine, accessory;
      (21)   Sober house; and
      (22)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use.
   (C)   Conditional uses (see Article 4 for accessory uses).
      (1)   Feedlots;
      (2)   Two-family dwelling;
      (3)    Accessory dwelling unit, pursuant to §
4.03;
      (4)   Boarding house;
      (5)   Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(C);
      (6)   Manufactured home park;
      (7)   Temporary worker housing;
      (8)   Cemetery, memorial garden;
      (9)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (10)   Campground;
      (11)   Golf course, country club, driving range;
      (12)   Gun or archery range, indoor;
      (13)   Skating rink (enclosed), dance hall, game arcade, bowling alley,
health club;
      (14)   Organized motor sports: ATVs; trucks; tractors; or motorcycle
tracks or trails (not including auto or other vehicle racing, tracks or
events);
      (15)   Paint ball course;
      (16)   Riding academy, boarding stable;
      (17)   Building material sales and storage, lumber yard, garden store,
commercial; greenhouse, manufactured home sales;
      (18)   Office, professional or medical;
      (19)   Office, other than professional or medical;
      (20)   Office services;
      (21)   Repair services. Repair service include, but are not limited to,
the repair of: appliances, furniture and upholstery, jewelry, shoes, musical
instruments, watches, and other articles generally found for sale in retail
sales establishments;
      (22)   Restaurant (drive-in), theater (drive-in) or similar uses that
provide goods and services to patrons in automobiles;
      (23)   Restaurant;
      (24)   Retail sales establishment. Retail sales establishments include,
but are not limited to, establishments that offer the following goods and/or
service: antique and collectibles, bicycle sales and repair, books, clothing,
convenience food goods, drugs, groceries, guns and ammunition, hardware,
jewelry, music, musical instruments, newspapers and magazines, office furniture
and supplies, picture framing, recreation equipment sales and service,
stationery, tobacco, tourist related sales and service, video sales and
rentals;
      (25)    Veterinary and animal clinic and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals including kennels;
      (26)   Essential services, facilities, and structures;
      (27)   Cannabis retail; and
      (28)   Outdoor display.
   (D)   Density standards. The base density permitted in the UE District is
one dwelling unit per quarter-quarter section or parcel of record. Dwellings
existing at the time of the adoption of this ordinance will be included when
determining whether or not a quarter-quarter section is at its maximum density.
A dwelling that is part of a farmstead shall be counted as a dwelling unit.
   (E)   Conditional use standards for nonresidential uses. Nonresidential
business, institutional or recreational uses, as categorized in Table 6.10,
shall meet the following additional requirements in addition to the conditional
use standards for those uses outlined in
Article 6 and for conditional uses generally in
Article 3.
      (1)   The location of the proposed development must be consistent with
planned growth areas in the adjacent city’s Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The proposed development will not preclude orderly expansion of
existing residential neighborhoods.
      (3)   The development must be served by a road adequate to serve the
traffic generated by the development.
   (F)   Applicability of city zoning standards. If a joint planning board of
city, township and county representatives has been established for the Urban
Expansion District, the County Board may choose to apply the appropriate zoning
standards of the adjacent city, including dimensional standards and other land
use and environmental regulations.
   (G)   Dimensional standards. Development within the Urban Expansion District
shall be subject to the following minimum dimensional standards:
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling, standard lots: one acre minimum;
         (b)   Other principal permitted and conditional uses: two and one-half
acre minimum or as specified by conditional use permit; and
         (c)   No minimum lot area required for utilities, public uses and
communication towers except as otherwise required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 100 feet;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
principal structures:
         (a)   Front yard: 50 feet;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
accessory structures:
         (a)   Front yard same as principal structure;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in height); and
         (c)   Rear yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in height).
      (5)   Minimum setbacks, windbreaks and trees:
         (a)   Road right-of-way of less than 100 feet: 20 feet from right-of-
way;
         (b)   Road right-of-way of 100 feet or greater: 15 feet from right-of-
way;
         (c)   From side or rear parcel boundary: ten feet for windbreaks
consisting of shrubs and 20 feet for trees, as defined; and
         (d)   Side or rear windbreak and tree setbacks may be reduced or
eliminated by agreement of adjoining property owners when the agreement is
filed with the Zoning Administrator and recorded by the County Recorder of
Deeds.
      (6)   Maximum impervious coverage: 25%; and
      (7)   Maximum height for all structures except agricultural structures,
utilities and communication or wind towers: 35 feet.
   (H)   Accommodating future public water supply and sewerage facilities.
Where determined appropriate by the Planning Commission, subdivisions shall be
designed so as allow for the future installation of public water supply and
sewerage facilities in the most efficient and economical manner. Utility
easements shall be reserved in all locations necessary for the future
installations of public water facilities.
   (I)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements within this ordinance
and other county ordinances apply to development in the Urban Expansion
District. These include, but are not limited to, the general regulations in
Article 4 and the conditional use and specific development standards in
Articles
3 and
6.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.21 VMX VILLAGE MIXED USE DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Village Mixed Use District is to recognize
the existence of small rural unincorporated villages that were developed prior
to contemporary land use and environmental regulations and that include a
mixture of land uses. Development in many of these villages is constrained by
small lot sizes that are inadequate to support on-site wastewater treatment.
The district is intended to implement the following objectives:
      (1)   Encourage development that will increase the housing diversity and
economic viability of the unincorporated rural villages through construction of
a greater variety of housing types, compatible new uses or intensification of
existing land uses;
      (2)   Maintain and enhance the existing character of the villages, while
encouraging rehabilitation or reuse of existing buildings;
      (3)   Encourage the development of community sewer systems that can
improve wastewater treatment for existing development as well as new
development;
      (4)   Prevent or mitigate conflicts between agricultural and non-
agricultural land uses; and
      (5)   Allow flexibility in dimensional standards without compromising
public health and safety.
   (B)   Permitted uses. (Commercial and office uses in the Village Mixed Use
District listed below as “permitted” shall not exceed 5,000 square feet of
gross floor area on the ground floor, except by conditional use permit; the
maximum size of conditional commercial or other nonresidential uses shall be as
specified in the conditional use permit.)
      (1)   Agriculturally-oriented business;
      (2)   Seasonal produce stand;
      (3)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (4)    Accessory dwelling unit, pursuant to §
4.03;
      (5)   Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(B);
      (6)   Licensed residential program (up to eight residents);
      (7)   Daycare center;
      (8)   Local governmental agency building or facility, community center,
Town Hall and associated accessory building(s);
      (9)   Parks and public recreation areas;
      (10)   Religious institution;
      (11)   School, public or private;
      (12)   Art, photography, crafts gallery, pottery shop, studios;
      (13)   Bakery, coffee shop;
      (14)   Barber, beauty shop;
      (15)   Bed and breakfast;
      (16)   Convenience gas and goods sales;
      (17)   Retail sales establishment;
      (18)   Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yard;
      (19)   Family daycare;
      (20)   Group family daycare;
      (21)   Parking facility;
      (22)    Solar energy systems, pursuant to §
6.11(PP);
      (23)   Swimming pool, hot tub;
      (24)   Water-oriented accessory structures (docks, lifts and the like);
      (25)   Wind turbine, accessory;
      (26)   Sober house;
      (27)   Cannabis retail; and
      (28)   Other accessory uses and structures that are incidental to the
principal use.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Feedlots;
      (2)   Agricultural chemicals, fertilizer sales;
      (3)   Grain elevator, grain storage and drying (commercial);
      (4)   Livestock sales barn and accessory facilities;
      (5)   Two-family dwelling;
      (6)   Boarding house;
      (7)    Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(C);
      (8)   Manufactured home park;
      (9)   Multi-family dwelling;
      (10)   Cemetery, memorial garden;
      (11)   Campground;
      (12)   Skating rink (enclosed), dance hall, game arcade, bowling alley,
health club;
      (13)   Automobile repair;
      (14)   Automobile service station, car wash;
      (15)   Office, professional or medical;
      (16)   Office, rather than professional or medical;
      (17)   Repair services. Repair service include, but are not limited to,
the repair of: appliances; furniture and upholstery; jewelry; shoes; musical
instruments; watches and other articles generally found for sale in retail
sales establishments;
      (18)   Restaurant;
      (19)   Tavern, club;
      (20)   Veterinary and animal clinic and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals including kennels;
      (21)    Essential services, facilities and structures;
      (22)   Kennels, private;
      (23)   Landscape material retail business; and
      (24)   Outdoor display.
   (D)   Dimensional standards. Development within the Village Mixed Use
District shall be subject to the following minimum dimensional standards:
      (1)   Lot area:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: 30,000 square feet or additional area as
necessary to provide adequate on-site wastewater treatment, as regulated by the
County SSTS standards. A community sewer system or an off-site drainfield
located on an adjacent property may be used to meet wastewater treatment
standards with the approval of the County Public Health Services Department and
Zoning Administrator;
         (b)   Other principal permitted and conditional uses: one acre minimum
or as specified by conditional use permit; and
         (c)   No minimum lot area required for utilities, public uses and
communication towers except as otherwise required.
      (2)   Minimum lot width: 75 feet;
      (3)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
principal structures:
         (a)   Front yard: 35 feet, or within the range of the existing
setbacks on the block;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet; and
         (c)   Rear yard: 30 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setbacks from property or road right-of-way lines,
accessory structures:
         (a)   Front yard same as principal structure;
         (b)   Side yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in sidewall height); and
         (c)   Rear yard: 20 feet (ten feet if structure is 100 square feet or
less in area and no greater than 14 feet in sidewall height).
      (5)   Minimum setbacks, windbreaks and trees:
         (a)   Road right-of-way of less than 100 feet: 20 feet from right-of-
way;
         (b)   Road right-of-way of 100 feet or greater: 15 feet from right-of-
way;
         (c)   From side or rear parcel boundary: ten feet for windbreaks
consisting of shrubs and 20 feet for trees, as defined; and
         (d)   Side or rear windbreak and tree setbacks may be reduced or
eliminated by agreement of adjoining property owners when the agreement is
filed with the Zoning Administrator and recorded by the County Recorder of
Deeds.
      (6)   Maximum impervious coverage: 50% of lot area; and
      (7)   Maximum height for all structures except agricultural structures,
utilities and communication or wind towers: 35 feet.
   (E)   Additional requirements. Additional requirements within this ordinance
and other county ordinances apply to development in the VMX District. These
include, but are not limited to, the general regulations in Article 4 and the
conditional use standards in Article 3 and 6.
   (F)   VMX extension. Any request for a zoning change to rezone land to the
VMX District must meet the following criteria as a condition of approval.
      (1)   The property proposed for rezoning must be adjacent to the boundary
of the VMX District.
      (2)    Centralized wastewater collection and treatment facilities may be
provided to serve the rezoned area and, to the extent feasible, to provide
service to existing developed areas.
      (3)   Connections between proposed streets and existing streets may be
required to facilitate pedestrian circulation and to integrate new development
into the existing village.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 157, passed 7-2-2024; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
§ 6.22 SO SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of the Shoreland Overlay District is to protect
and enhance the quality of surface waters by promoting the wise utilization of
public waters and related land resources. The use of any shoreland of public
waters, the size and shape of lots, the use, size, type and location of
structures on lots; the installation and maintenance of water supply and waste
treatment systems; the grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting
of shoreland vegetation; and the subdivision of land shall be in compliance
with the terms of this ordinance and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   District boundaries. The Shoreland Overlay District shall apply to all
land designated as Shoreland Area within the jurisdiction of the county. The
boundaries of the district are defined as follows.
      (1)   Lands 1,000 feet landward from the ordinary high water level of all
protected water basins as identified on the protected waters and wetlands map
and listed in Article 5 of this ordinance.
      (2)   Lands 300 feet from the ordinary high water level, or within the
landward extent of the designated 100-year floodplain, whichever is greater, of
all protected watercourses as listed in Article 5 of this ordinance.
   (C)   Overlay District application. The Shoreland Overlay District shall be
an overlay district that shall be superimposed on all zoning districts. The
standards contained in the Shoreland Overlay District shall be in addition to
the requirements of the primary zoning district and any other requirements set
forth in this ordinance. If standards are conflicting, the more restrictive
standards shall apply, with the exception that the conservation subdivision
design standards of this ordinance shall take precedence over other lot area
and dimensional requirements.
   (D)   Permitted and conditional uses. Except for the following, the only
permitted or conditional uses allowed in the Shoreland Overlay District shall
be those uses allowed as permitted or conditional in the primary zoning
district. Conditional use standards in Articles 3 and 6 shall apply in addition
to any other conditions that apply to the conditional use.
      (1)   Commercial recreational uses, commercial sales and service uses,
and industrial and related uses shall only be allowed as conditional uses.
      (2)   New animal feedlots are prohibited within the Shoreland Overlay
District. Existing feedlots shall be considered as permitted uses; however, any
addition or expansion shall only be allowed as a conditional use.
      (3)   New extractive uses are prohibited within the Shoreland Overlay
District.
   (E)   Accessory uses and structures. Accessory uses and structures in the
Shoreland Overlay District shall be the same as those accessory uses and
structure allowed in the primary zoning district.
   (F)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Dimensional standards for unsewered lakes. Dimensional standards
are as specified in the table below, or as specified by the underlying zoning;
the most restrictive standard shall apply. Only land located above the ordinary
high water level may be used to meet minimum lot area requirements. These
dimensional standards apply to single-family dwellings.
 
Lake Class        Natural Environment Recreational Develop. General Develop.
Minimum lot area
(square feet)
Riparian          2 acres             1 acre                1 acre
Non-riparian      2 acres             1 acre                1 acre
Minimum lot width
Riparian          200 ft.             150 ft.               100 ft.
Non-riparian      200 ft.             150 ft.               150 ft.
 
      (2)   Lot area and width standards for rivers and streams. Lot widths are
as specified below, or as specified by the underlying zoning; the most
restrictive standard shall apply. Only land located above the ordinary high
water level may be used to meet minimum lot area requirements. These
dimensional standards apply to single-family dwellings.
 
Stream Class                   Agricultural Tributary
Minimum lot area (square feet) See underlying zoning
Minimum lot width              150 feet     100 feet
 
      (3)   Lot area and lot width for duplexes. The minimum lot area and lot
width for duplexes, where allowed by the primary zoning, shall be 50% larger
than the single-family lot area and lot width specified in this section or by
the primary zoning district. (For example, a minimum lot area of one and one-
half acres and a minimum lot width of 225 feet would be required for a riparian
lot on a recreational development lake.)
   (G)   Standards for placement, design and height of structures (amended 9-
15-2009).
      (1)   Placement of structures is regulated by the setback distance from
the ordinary high water level (OHWL) or the delineated boundary of wetlands
that intersect the shore impact zone (wetland boundary).
      (2)   Standards for lakes.
Lake Class Natural Environment Recreational Develop. General Develop.
Lake Class           Natural Environment Recreational Develop. General Develop.
Minimum setbacks from ordinary high water level
All structures,
except water-        200 ft.*            100 ft.*              75 ft.*
oriented accessory
structures
1 permitted water-   20 feet             20 feet               20 feet
oriented accessory
Sewage treatment     150 feet            75 feet               75 feet
system
Additional structure setbacks
From top of bluff    30 feet             30 feet               30 feet
From unplatted       50 feet             50 feet               50 feet
cemetery
From road right-of-  50 feet             50 feet               50 feet
way edge
From road right-of-
way edge of a        25 feet             25 feet               25 feet
private road
Maximum impervious   25% of lot area     25% of lot area       25% of lot area
surface coverage
Maximum height of
principal and        See primary zoning requirements
accessory structures
 
      (3)   Standards for agricultural and tributary rivers and streams.
Minimum setbacks from ordinary high water level
All structures except water-oriented accessory structures 100 feet
1 permitted water-oriented accessory structure            10 feet
Sewage treatment system                                   75 feet
Additional structure setbacks
From top of bluff                                         30 feet
From unplatted cemetery                                   50 feet
From road right-of-way edge                               50 feet
From road right-of-way edge of a private road             25 feet
Maximum impervious surface coverage                       15% of lot area
Maximum height of principal and accessory                 See primary zoning
 
      (4)    The minimum setback from a wetland shall be 50 feet.
      (5)   Setbacks from the ordinary high water mark and the side yard
setbacks, may be modified without variance for structures existing on August 1,
2009 located outside of the shore impact zone and above the top of bluff with
the dedication and recording of an easement (including a planting plan),
approved by the county Planning and Zoning Administrator, providing for
planting and maintenance of approved shoreland plants at a ratio of three
square feet of plants for each square foot of additional building, deck or
porch area added. Side yard setback must be maintained at a distance of at
least ten feet. Whenever possible, shoreland plants will be planted near the
shore and worked landward.
      (6)   Shore impact zone. The “shore impact zone” is defined as land
located between the ordinary high water level (OHWL), or the delineated
boundary of a wetland intersects the shore impact zone as measured from the
OHWL, and a parallel line at a distance of 50% of the setback for principal
structures. (For example, the shore impact zone for natural environment lakes
would be 100 feet, for recreational development lakes 75 feet, and for general
development lakes 37.5 feet. The shore impact zone around a wetland that
intersects a lake’s shore impact zone would similarly be 100 feet, 75 feet or
37.5 feet, depending on the lake classification). The shore impact zone must
remain in its natural vegetative state except as specified in subsection (H)
below (“Shoreland alterations”).
      (7)   Placement of structures on lots.
         (a)   Generally. Where principal structures exist on the adjoining
lots on both sides of a proposed building site, structure setbacks may be
altered without a variance to conform to the adjoining setbacks from the
ordinary high water level, provided the proposed building site is not located
in a shore impact zone or in a bluff impact zone.
         (b)   Shore impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings and permitted water-oriented accessory structures, shall
not be placed within shore impact zones.
         (c)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, shall not be placed within bluff impact zones.
         (d)   Uses without water oriented needs. Uses without water oriented
needs must be located on lots or parcels without public waters frontage, or, if
located on lots or parcels with public waters frontage, must either be set back
double the normal ordinary high water level setback or be substantially
screened from view from the water by vegetation or topography, assuming summer,
leaf-on conditions.
      (8)   High water elevations. Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where the data does not
exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed
or flood proofed must be determined as follows:
         (a)   For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above
the highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary high water
level, whichever is highest; and
         (b)   For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least
three feet above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are not
available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet above the ordinary
high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine effects
of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to establish a
flood protection elevation. Under all approaches, technical evaluations must be
done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist consistent with Minnesota Rules,
Parts 6120.5000 to 6120.6200 governing the management of floodplain areas. If
more than one approach is used, the highest flood protection elevation
determined must be used for placing structures and other facilities.
      (9)   Water oriented accessory structures. Each lot may contain one water
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in this
subsection if this structure complies with the following provisions.
         (a)   The building area of the structure or facility shall not exceed
250 square feet in area, measured at grade, or ten feet in height, exclusive of
safety rails. Detached decks shall not exceed eight feet above grade at any
point.
         (b)   The structure or facility shall be set back a minimum of ten
feet from the ordinary high water level.
         (c)   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
         (d)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (e)   The structure or facility shall not be designed or used for
human habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities.
         (f)   Water oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than elevation determined in subsection (G) above if the structure
is constructed of flood resistant materials to the elevation, electrical and
mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation, and if long duration
flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice action and
wind-driven waves and debris.
         (g)   On general development and recreational development lakes,
water-oriented accessory structures used solely for watercraft storage,
including storage of related boating and water oriented sporting equipment, may
occupy an area up to 400 square feet provided the maximum width of the
structure is 20 feet as measured parallel to the configuration of the
shoreline.
      (10)   Guest cottages. One guest cottage may be allowed on lots that are
at least 50% greater in area than the minimum lot area specified in subsection
(F) above, provided the following standards are met.
         (a)   A guest cottage shall not exceed 700 square feet in area,
measured at grade, or 15 feet in height.
         (b)   A guest cottage must be located or designed to reduce its
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer leaf-on conditions.
         (c)   The parcel may not be further subdivided to place the guest
cottage on a separate lot.
         (d)   Before securing approval for construction of a guest cottage,
the owner of the property shall record against the deed, a deed restriction
running in favor of the county limiting ownership of the guest cottage to the
owner of the principal dwelling unit on the property.
      (11)   Stairways, lifts and landings. Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lift must meet
the following design requirements.
         (a)   Stairways and lifts shall not exceed four feet in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space recreational properties and planned unit developments.
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be used
for commercial properties and public open space recreational properties.
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts or
landings.
         (d)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
         (e)   Stairways, lifts and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical.
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas
provided that the dimensional and performance standards of subsections (G)(11)
(a) through (G)(11)(e) above are complied with in addition to the requirements
of Minnesota Regulations, Chapter 1340.
      (12)   Shore impact zone for permitted agricultural uses.
         (a)   The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural
land uses is an area with a 50-foot average width and a 30-foot minimum width,
as measured from the ordinary high water level if identified, or the top or
crown of bank or normal water level as provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 3(c),
as it may be amended from time to time, whichever is applicable.
         (b)   General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture,
truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in perennial
vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan that includes
alternative riparian water quality practices based on the Natural Resources
Conservation Service Field Office Technical Guides (FOTG), practices approved
by the Board of Water and Soil Resources (BWSR), or practices based on local
conditions approved by of the local soil and water conservation district that
are consistent with the FOTG.
         (c)   Alternative practices: incorporation of approved alternative
practices may reduce the overall buffer width, however, the minimum width
cannot be less than 30 feet.
   (H)   Shoreland alterations. Alterations of vegetation and topography will
be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve
shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, limit direct and indirect
impacts on water quality, prevent bank slumping and protect fish and wildlife
habitat. The following standards shall apply to shore and bluff impact zones
and steep slopes.
      (1)   The shore impact zone shall be maintained as a natural vegetative
buffer, consisting of trees, shrubs and low ground cover of native plants and
understory in a natural state.
      (2)   Vegetation clearing and removal of ground cover, including leaf
litter and the forest floor duff layer, is not allowed within the shore and
bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, except as follows.
         (a)   Within the shore impact zone, limited clearing of trees and
shrubs, and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees may be allowed to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, access paths, view
corridors, recreation use areas and permitted water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities. Trees, shrubs and a low ground cover consisting of
native plants and understory shall be maintained in a natural state within this
area. An access path permitted within this area shall not exceed a cleared
width of six feet and must be oriented generally perpendicular to the
shoreline.
         (b)   One shoreline recreation use area may be allowed on each
residential lot, not to exceed the following dimensions:
 
Class or District                 Width (maximum distance in feet Length (feet)
                                  parallel to shore)
Agricultural and tributary rivers 30                              15
General development               30                              15
Natural environment               10                              15
Recreational development          20                              15
 
         (c)   Within bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited clearing
of trees and shrubs, and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees may be allowed
to accommodate the placement of stairways and landings and access paths. Trees,
shrubs and a low ground cover consisting of native grasses and plants shall be
maintained within these areas.
         (d)   Use of fertilizer shall not be allowed within the shore impact
zone. Use of fertilizer and pesticides elsewhere within the Shoreland Overlay
District provided that it is done in such a way as to minimize runoff into the
shore impact zone or public water.
         (e)   No impervious surfaces shall be allowed within the shore impact
zone, except for boat launches, stairways, lifts or landings, and, where
permitted, one water-oriented accessory structure.
         (f)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces shall be
preserved.
         (g)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of trees,
limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
   (I)   Topographic alterations/grading and filling.
      (1)   Grading, filling and excavations necessary for the construction of
structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways under validly issued
construction permits for these facilities do not require the issuance of a
separate grading and filling permit; however, the grading and filling standards
in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems and driveways.
      (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by Articles 3 and 6 of
this ordinance.
      (3)   Notwithstanding subsections (I)(1) and (I)(2) above, a grading and
filling permit will be required for:
         (a)   The movement of more than five cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
         (b)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside of
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
      (4)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
         (a)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 Wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect the following functional qualities of the wetland;
         (b)   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
         (c)   Storage of surface run-off to prevent or reduce flood damage;
         (d)   Fish and wildlife habitat;
         (e)   Recreational use;
         (f)   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
         (g)   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance critical habitat for endangered plants and animals or others.
      (5)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that ensures
only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest time
possible.
      (6)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible.
      (7)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before they
reach any surface water feature must be used.
      (8)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
      (9)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
      (10)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
      (11)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
      (12)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the Commissioner of the DNR under M.S. §
103G.245, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (13)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
      (14)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the landward
extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water level, and
the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does not exceed
three feet.
   (J)   Conservation subdivision design standards for residential development.
Within the Shoreland Overlay District where the primary zoning district is the
Limited Residential District, all subdivisions of eight or more lots at a
density of eight units per 40 acres shall be designed according to the
conservation subdivision design requirements of the Limited Residential
District, and the following standards.
      (1)   The lot area, density and dimensional standards of the Limited
Residential District shall apply.
      (2)   The shore and bluff impact zones shall be included as common open
space. A minimum of one access corridor through the shore impact zone must be
provided for use by all residents, with a minimum width of 50 feet, located
outside of wetland or floodplain areas.
   (K)   Penalties for violation. A violation of the provisions of this section
or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance)
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      (1)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures. The
community must act in good faith to enforce these official controls and to
correct ordinance violations to the extent possible to protect the shoreline.
      (2)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Land and Water Resources Director, the Land and Water
Resources Director shall immediately investigate the situation and document the
nature and extent of the violation of the official control. As soon as is
reasonably possible, this information will be submitted to the appropriate
Department of Natural Resources office along with the community’s plan of
action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      (3)   The Land and Water Resources Director and the Zoning Administrator
shall notify the suspected party of the requirements of this section and all
other official controls and the nature and extent of the suspected violation of
these controls.
         (a)   If the structure and/or use are under construction or
development, the Land and Water Resources Director in consultation with the
Zoning Administrator may order the construction or development immediately
halted until a proper permit or approval is granted by the community, if the
construction or development is already completed, then the Land and Water
Resources Director and or the Zoning Administrator may either:
            1.   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
            2.   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
         (b)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Land and Water Resources Director or the Zoning Administrator within the
specified period, each additional day that lapses shall constitute an
additional violation of this section and shall be prosecuted accordingly. The
Land and Water Resources Manager or the Zoning Administrator shall also upon
the lapse of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the
land to the condition which existed prior to the violation of this section.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 126, passed 10-17-2017; Ord. 139, passed 10-
15-2019; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.23 FO FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Statutory authorization, findings of fact and purpose.
      (1)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in M.S.
Chapters 103F and 394 and Minnesota Rules, Parts 6120.5000 through 6120.6200,
as they may be amended from time to time, delegated the authority to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. M.S.
Chapter 103F, as it may be amended from time to time, further stipulates that
communities subject to recurrent flooding must participate and maintain
eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) in 44 CFR §§ 59
through 78. Therefore, the county does ordain as follows.
      (2)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this section is to maintain
the community’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program and to
minimize potential losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss
of property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety and general welfare. This section is also intended to preserve
the natural characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in
order to moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce
soil erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
      (3)   Warning of disclaimer of liability. This section does not imply
that area outside of the floodplain district or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding and flood damages. Not all flood risk is
mapped. Larger floods do occur, and the flood height may be increased by man-
made or natural causes, such as ice jams or bridge openings restricted by
debris. This section shall not create liability on the part of the county or
any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance
on this section or any administrative decisions lawfully made thereunder.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Adoption of flood insurance rate map. The following maps together
with all attached material are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a
part of the official zoning map and this ordinance. The attached material
includes the Flood Insurance Study for Waseca County, Minnesota, and
incorporated areas, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map Index 27161CIND1A, both
dated March 27, 2024, and prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
These materials are on file at the County Planning and Zoning Office.
      (2)   Lands to which section applies. This section shall apply to all
lands designated as floodplain within the jurisdiction of the county.
      (3)   Interpretation. The boundaries of the floodplain district shall be
determined by scaling distances on the official floodplain zoning district map.
Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated on the
official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the base flood elevation
(BFE) shall be the governing factor in locating the outer boundaries of the 1%
annual chance floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall require detailed
studies consistent with subsection (D)(7) below to determine the floodway and
flood fringe boundaries.
   (C)   Conflict with pre-existing zoning regulations and general compliance.
      (1)   The Floodplain District as Overlay Zoning District. The floodplain
zoning district shall be considered an overlay zoning district to all existing
land use regulations of the community. The uses permitted in subsections (D)(1)
through (D)(6) and (D)(8) below shall be permitted only if not prohibited by
any established, underlying zoning district. The requirements of this section
shall apply in addition to other legally established regulations of the
community and where this section imposes greater restrictions, the provisions
of this section shall apply.
      (2)   Compliance. No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without
full compliance with the terms of this section and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this ordinance. Within the
floodway and flood fringe, all uses not listed as permitted uses in subsections
(D)(1) through (D)(6) below shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution is
provided here that:
         (a)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and
certain travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general
provisions of this section and specifically subsections (D)(1) through (D)(6)
and (D)(16) below;
         (b)   Modification, additions, structural alterations or repair after
damage to existing nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses of
structures or land are regulated by the general provisions of this section and
specifically subsection (D)(13) below; and
         (c)   As-built elevations for elevated structures must be certified by
ground surveys as stated in subsection (D)(11) below.
   (D)   Permitted uses, standards and floodplain evaluation criteria.
      (1)   Permitted uses in the floodplain. The following uses of land are
permitted uses in the floodplain district:
         (a)   Any use of land which does not involve a structure, an addition
to the outside dimensions to an existing structure or an obstruction to flood
flows such as fill or storage of materials or equipment;
         (b)   Any uses of land involving the construction of new structures,
the placement or replacement of manufactured homes, the addition to the outside
dimensions of an existing structure or obstructions such as fill or storage of
materials or equipment, provided these activities are located in the flood
fringe portion of the floodplain. These uses shall be subject to the
development standards in subsections (D)(2) through (D)(6) below and the
floodplain evaluation criteria in subsection (D)(7) below for determining
floodway and flood fringe boundaries; and
         (c)    Recreational vehicles are regulated by subsection (D)(16)
below.
      (2)   Standards for floodplain permitted uses. All development must:
         (a)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement resulting from hydrodynamic and
hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy;
         (b)   Be constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood
damage;
         (c)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage;
         (d)   Be constructed with heating, ventilation, duct work, and air
conditioning equipment and other service facilities elevated at least up to the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE). Water, sewage, electrical, and
other utility lines below the RFPE shall be constructed so as to prevent water
from entering or accumulating within them during conditions of flooding;
         (e)   Be reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         (f)   Be assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to
flood hazards;
         (g)   Not be detrimental to uses in adjoining areas;
         (h)   Not adversely affect the efficiency or restrict the flood
carrying capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary
watercourse or drainage system;
         (i)   Ensure that any fill or other materials are protected from
erosion, discharge, and sediment entering surface waters by the use of
vegetative cover or other methods as soon as possible;
         (j)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The Federal Emergency Management (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested;
         (k)   Storage of materials and equipment.
            1.   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE),
floodproofed, or protected by other measures as approved by the Zoning
Administrator. Storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters,
such as sewage; sand; rock; wrecked and discarded equipment; dredged spoil;
municipal, agricultural, or industrial waste; and other wastes as further
defined in M.S. § 115.01, are prohibited unless adequate safeguards approved by
the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency are provided. For projects not requiring
approvals by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, adequate safeguards must
be approved by the Zoning Administrator prior to issuance of a permit.
            2.   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
or if placed on fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
            3.   No use shall be permitted which will adversely affect the
capacity of the channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream, or
of any drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system; and
         (l)   All structures, including accessory structures, additions to
existing structures and manufactured homes, shall be constructed on fill so
that the basement floor, or first floor if there is no basement, is at or above
the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation must be
no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and
shall extend at such elevation at least 15 feet beyond the limits of the
structure constructed thereon.
      (3)   All uses. Uses that do not have vehicular access at or above an
elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation to lands outside of the floodplain shall not be permitted unless
granted a variance by the Board of Adjustment. In granting a variance, the
Board shall specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the use
and only after determining that adequate flood warning time and local emergency
response and recovery procedures exist.
      (4)   Commercial and manufacturing uses. Accessory land uses, such as
yards, railroad tracks and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation; however, a permit for such facilities to
be used by the employees or the general public shall not be granted in the
absence of a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if
the area would be inundated to a depth greater than two feet or be subject to
flood velocities greater than four feet per second upon occurrence of the
regional flood.
      (5)   On-site sewage treatment, water supply systems and other service
facilities. Private facilities shall be subject to applicable provisions
detailed in Section 9.2. In addition, new or replacement on-site sewage
treatment systems are to be located to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during times of flooding, shall not be in a designated
floodway, and are subject to the provisions in Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.2270
and Chapter 4725.4350, Subp. 2 (Flood Protection).
      (6)   Manufactured homes. Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks
are subject to applicable standards of this section. In addition:
         (a)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited
to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
         (b)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing home
parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in subsection (D)
(9).
      (7)   Floodplain evaluation.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a use/building permit,
manufactured home park development or subdivision approval within the
floodplain district, the Zoning Administrator shall require the applicant to
furnish sufficient site development plans and a hydrologic/hydraulic analysis
by a qualified engineer or hydrologist specifying the nature of the development
and whether the proposed use is located in the floodway or flood fringe and the
regulatory flood protection elevation for the site. Procedures consistent with
Minnesota Rules, Parts 6120.5600 (Technical Standards and Requirements for
Floodplain Evaluation) and 6120.5700 (Minimum Floodplain Management Standards
for Local Ordinances) shall be followed during the technical evaluation and
review of the development proposal.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit one copy of all
information required by subsection (D)(7)(a) above to the respective Department
of Natural Resources Area Hydrologist for review and comment at least 20 days
prior to the granting of a permit or manufactured home park development/
subdivision approval by the community. The Zoning Administrator shall notify
the respective
         (c)   Department of Natural Resources Area Hydrologist within ten days
after a permit or manufactured home park development/subdivision approval is
granted.
      (8)   Public and private, service facilities, roads, bridges, and
railroads in the Floodplain District. All public and private utilities, service
facilities, roads, bridges and railroads must meet the following, where
applicable:
         (a)   Public transportation facilities. Railroad tracks, roads, and
bridges must be elevated to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE)
where such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area, or
where failure or interruption would result in danger to public health or
safety. Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower
elevation where failure or interruption of transportation services would not
endanger the public health or safety. All public transportation facilities
should be designed to minimize increases in flood elevations.
         (b)   Public utilities. All utilities such as gas, electrical, sewer,
and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be elevated and/
or floodproofed to the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), be located
and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage and be designed to
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into flood waters. All public utilities should be designed to minimize
increases in flood elevations. New solid waste management facilities, as
defined in Minnesota Rules, Part 7035.0300, are prohibited in the 1% annual
chance floodplain. Water supply systems are subject to the provisions in
Minnesota Rules, Part 4725.4350.
      (9)   Subdivisions. All subdivided land must meet the following
requirements. Manufactured home parks and recreational vehicle parks or
campgrounds are considered subdivisions under this ordinance.
         (a)   All lots within floodplain districts must be suitable for a
building site outside of the Floodway District.
         (b)   Subdivision of lands within the floodplain districts may not be
approved if the cost of providing governmental services would impose an
unreasonable economic burden on Waseca County.
         (c)   All subdivisions must have vehicular access both to the
subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two feet below
the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE), unless a flood warning/
emergency evacuation plan has been approved by Waseca County.
         (d)   The floodway and flood fringe district boundaries, the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the required elevation of all
access roads must be clearly identified on all required subdivision drawings
and platting documents.
         (e)   In the Floodplain District, applicants for subdivision approval
or development of a manufactured home park or manufactured home park expansion
shall provide the information required in subsection (D)(7)(a) above. The
Planning Commission shall evaluate the proposed subdivision or mobile home park
development in accordance with the standards established in subsections (D)(1)
through (D)(8) above, and make a recommendation to the County Board.
         (f)   For all subdivision in the floodplain, the floodway and flood
fringe boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) and the
required elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
      (10)   Removal of special flood hazard area designation. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
      (11)   Administration.
         (a)   Use permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator
shall be secured prior to the construction, addition or alteration of any
building or structure; prior to the use or change of use of a building,
structure or land; prior to the change or extension of a nonconforming use; and
prior to the excavation or placement of an obstruction within the floodplain.
         (b)   Permit application requirements. Permit applications must
include the following, where applicable, together with the applicable
requirements in §
3.05:
            1.   A site plan showing all existing or proposed buildings,
structures, service facilities, potential obstructions, and pertinent design
features having an influence on the permit;
            2.   Location and detail of grading, fill, or storage of materials;
            3.   Copies of any required local, state or federal permits or
approvals; and
            4.   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning
Administrator as necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
         (c)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or
processing an application for a variance, the Zoning Administrator shall
determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal
permits. Any development in the beds of public waters that will change the
course, current or cross section is required to obtain a public waters work
permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245 or a utility crossing license in
accordance with M.S. § 84.415, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit.
         (d)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing
any alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator
must notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to
work in public waters in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as
adequate notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to FEMA.
         (e)   Notification to FEMA when physical changes increase or decrease
base flood elevations. Where physical changes affecting flooding conditions may
increase or decrease the water surface elevation of the base flood, Waseca
County must notify FEMA of the changes in order to obtain a Letter of Map
Revision (LOMR), by submitting a copy of the relevant technical or scientific
data as soon as practicable, but no later than six months after the date such
supporting information becomes available. Within the general floodplain
district, a map revision is only required if development results in stage
increases greater than one-half foot.
         (f)   Certification of lowest floor elevations. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a registered professional engineer,
registered architect or registered land surveyor that the finished fill and
building elevations were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this
section. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record, in perpetuity, of
the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) for all new structures
and alterations or additions to existing structures in the floodplain district.
      (12)   Variances.
         (a)   The Board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases relief or
variance from the terms of this section as will not be contrary to the public
interest and only for those circumstances such as hardship, practical
difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under consideration, as
provided for in the respective enabling legislation for planning and zoning for
counties as appropriate. In the granting of such variance, the Board of
Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the specific conditions that
existed consistent with the criteria specified in the respective enabling
legislation, which justified the granting of the variance.
         (b)   Variances from the provisions of this section may be authorized
where the Board of Adjustment has determined the variance will not be contrary
to the public interest and the spirit and intent of this section. No variance
shall allow in any district a use prohibited in that district or permit a lower
degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (c)   The Board shall submit by mail to the Department of Natural
Resources respective Area Hydrologist a copy of the application for proposed
variance sufficiently in advance so that the respective Area Hydrologist will
receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing. A copy of all decisions
granting a variance shall be forwarded by mail to the Department of Natural
Resources respective Area Hydrologist within ten days of such action.
         (d)   Appeals from any decision of the Board may be made and as
specified in this community’s official controls and state statutes.
         (e)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria must be satisfied:
            1.   Variance must not be issued within any designated regulatory
floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would
result.
            2.   Variances from the provisions of this section may only be
issued by a community upon:
               a.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
               b.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
               c.   A determination that granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.   Variances from the provisions in this section may only be
issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
            4.   Variances must be consistent with the general purpose of these
standards and the intent of applicable provisions in state and federal law.
            5.   Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood
protection, but no variance shall permit a lesser degree of flood protection
than the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
         (f)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping. The Zoning
Administrator shall notify the applicant for a variance that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the base flood level increases risks
to life and property. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of
all variance actions. The Zoning Administrator must report all variance
actions, including the justification for their issuance, and must report such
variances as requested by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (13)   Nonconformities. A structure or the use of a structure or premises
which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this section, but which is
not in conformity with the provisions of this section may be continued subject
to the following conditions.
         (a)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a
way, which increases its nonconformity.
         (b)   An alteration within the inside dimensions of a nonconforming
use or structure is permissible provided it will not result in increasing the
flood damage potential of that use or structure.
         (c)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions both inside
and outside of a structure to any nonconforming structure over the life of the
structure shall not exceed 50% of the market value of the structure unless the
conditions of this section are satisfied. The cost of all structural
alterations and additions constructed since the adoption of the community’s
initial floodplain controls must be calculated into today’s current cost which
will include all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost
placed on all manpower or labor, if the current cost of all previous and
proposed alterations and additions exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the structure, then the structure must meet the standards of this subsection
(D) for new structures.
         (d)   If any nonconforming use of a structure or land or nonconforming
structure is destroyed by any means, including floods, to an extent of 50% or
more of its market value at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this section. The
Zoning Administrator may issue a permit for reconstruction if the use is
located outside the floodway and, upon reconstruction, is adequately elevated
on fill in conformity with the provisions of this section.
      (14)   Penalties for violation. A violation of the provisions of this
section or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance)
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
         (a)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and Local Government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
         (b)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought
to the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this ordinance and all other official controls and the nature
and extent of the suspected violation of these controls.
            1.   If the structure and/or use are under construction or
development, the Zoning Administrator may order the construction or development
immediately halted until a proper permit or approval is granted by the
community, if the construction or development is already completed, then the
Zoning Administrator may either:
               a.   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must
be made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
               b.   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
            2.   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period, each additional day that
lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this ordinance and shall be
prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse of
the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to the
condition, which existed prior to the violation of this ordinance.
      (15)   Amendments. All amendments to this ordinance, including revisions
to the official floodplain zoning district map, shall be submitted to and
approved by the Department of Natural Resources prior to adoption. The
floodplain designation on the official floodplain zoning district map shall not
be removed unless the area is filled to an elevation at or above the regulatory
flood protection elevation and its contiguous to lands outside of the
floodplain. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the Federal Emergency
Management Agency’s (FEMA) Technical Conditions and Criteria and must receive
prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Department of Natural Resources
respective Area Hydrologist must be given at least ten days’ written notice of
all hearings to consider an amendment to this ordinance and the notice shall
include a draft of this ordinance amendment or technical study under
consideration.
      (16)   New recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and expansions to
existing recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are prohibited in any
floodplain district. Recreational vehicles placed in existing recreational
vehicle parks, campgrounds or lots of record in the floodplain must either:
         (a)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in subsections (D)
(1) through (D)(6) and this (D)(16); or
         (b)   Be travel-ready, meeting the following criteria:
            1.   The vehicle must be fully licensed.
            2.   The vehicle must be ready for highway use, meaning on wheels
or the internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect
type utilities.
            3.   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle.
            4.   Accessory structures may be permitted in the flood fringe
district, provided they do not hinder the removal of the vehicle should
flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in this subsection (D).
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 156, passed 3-19-2024; Ord. 159, passed 12-3-
2024)
§ 6.24 AO AIRPORT OVERLAY DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose and authority. The Waseca Joint Airport Zoning Board, created
and established by joint action of the City Council of Waseca and the Board of
Commissioners of Waseca County, and the St. Mary Town Board, pursuant to the
provisions and authority of M.S. § 360.063, as it may be amended from time to
time, hereby finds and declares that:
      (1)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Waseca Municipal Airport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity,
and also if of the obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of the area
available for the landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to
destroy or impair the utility of said airport and the public investment
therein;
      (2)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Waseca Municipal Airport;
      (3)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare, and for the promotion of the most
appropriate use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or
establishment of airport hazards;
      (4)   The prevention of these airport hazards should be accomplished, to
the extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation;
      (5)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards
and the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation or making and lighting of
existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political subdivisions
may raise and expend public funds;
      (6)   The Waseca Municipal Airport is an essential public facility that
serves an important public transportation role and provides a public good; and
      (7)   This section amends and replaces the Waseca Municipal Airport
Zoning Ordinance adopted in April 1974.
   (B)   Short title. This section shall be known as the Waseca Municipal
Airport Safety Zoning Ordinance. Those sections of land affected by this
ordinance are indicated in Exhibit A, which is attached to the ordinance
amending this ordinance.
   (C)   Airspace obstruction zoning.
      (1)   Airspace zones. In order to carry out the purposes of this
ordinance, as set forth above, the following airspace zones are hereby
established: Primary Zone, Horizontal Zone, Conical Zone, Approach Zone,
Precision Instrument Approach Zone, and Transitional Zone and whose locations
and dimensions are as follows:
         (a)   Primary Zone.
            1.   All that land which lies directly under an imaginary primary
surface longitudinally centered on a runway and:
               a.   Extending 200 feet beyond each end of Runway 15/33.
               b.   Coinciding with each end of Runway 2/20.
            2.   The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same
as the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of
the primary surface is:
               a.   500 feet for Runway 15/33.
               b.   250 feet for Runway 2/20.
         (b)   Horizontal Zone: All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation,
or a height of 1,276.7 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines
tangent to those arcs. The radius of horizontal surface arc is 10,000 feet for
Runway 15/33 which encompasses the arc of Runway 2/20.
         (c)   Conical Zone: All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary conical surface extending upward and outward from the periphery of
the horizontal surface at a slope of 20 to one for a horizontal distance of
4,000 feet as measured outward from the periphery of the horizontal surface.
         (d)   Approach Zone: All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary approach surface longitudinally centered on the extended centerline
at each end of a runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same
width and elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary surface. The
approach surface inclines upward and outward at a slope of:
            1.   34 to one for Runway 15/33 expanding uniformly to a width of
3,500 feet at a distance of 10,000 feet, then continues at the same rate of
divergence to the periphery of the conical surface.
            2.   20 to one for Runway 2/20 expanding uniformly to a width of
1,250 feet at a distance of 5,000 feet, then continues at the same rate of
divergence to the periphery of the conical surface.
         (e)   Transitional Zone: All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary surface extending upward and outward at right angles to the runway
centerline and centerline extended at a slope of seven to one from the sides of
the primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces until they
intersect the horizontal surface or the conical surface. Transitional surfaces
for those portions of the precision instrument approach surface which project
through and beyond the limits of the conical surface, extend a distance of
5,000 feet measured horizontally from the edge of the precision instrument
approach surface and at right angles to the extended precision instrument
runway centerline.
      (2)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this ordinance
and except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or
tree shall be constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in any
airspace zone created in (C)(1) so as to project above any of the imaginary
airspace surfaces described in said (C)(1) hereof. Where an area is covered by
more than one height limitation, the more restrictive limitation shall prevail.
      (3)   Boundary limitations. The airspace obstruction height zoning
restrictions set forth in this section shall apply for a distance not to exceed
one and one half miles beyond the perimeter of the airport boundary and in that
portion of an airport hazard area under the approach zone for a distance not
exceeding two miles from the airport boundary.
   (D)   Land use safety zoning.
      (1)   Safety zone boundaries. In order to carry out the purpose of this
ordinance as set forth above, to restrict those uses which may be hazardous to
the operational safety of aircraft operating to and from the Waseca Municipal
Airport, and, furthermore, to limit population and building density in the
runway approach areas, thereby creating sufficient open space to protect life
and property in case of an accident, there are hereby created and established
the following land use safety zones:
         (a)   Safety Zone A: All land in that portion of the approach zones of
a runway, as defined in (C)(1) hereof, which extends outward from the end of
the primary surface a distance equal to two-thirds of the planned length of the
runway, which distance shall be:
            1.   2,667 feet for Runway 15.
            2.   As illustrated in exhibits B2 and B3 for Runway 33.
            3.   1,667 feet for Runway 2/20.
         (b)   Safety Zone B: All land in that portion of the approach zones of
a runway, as defined in (C)(1) hereof, which extends outward from Safety Zone A
for a distance equal to one-third of the planned length of the runway, which
distance shall be:
            1.   1,333 feet for Runway 15.
            2.   As illustrated in Exhibits B2 and B3 for Runway 33.
            3.   833 feet for Runway 2/20.
         (c)   Safety Zone C: All land which is enclosed within the perimeter
of the horizontal zone, as defined in (C)(1) hereof, and which is not included
in Safety Zone A or Safety Zone B.
         (d)   Exceptions - Established Residential Neighborhoods: There are no
lands designated as Established Residential Neighborhoods in Built-Up Urban
Areas based upon the status of development existing on January 1, 1978.
      (2)   Use restrictions.
         (a)   General: Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in (C)(2), no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones
defined in (D)(1), which creates or causes interference with the operations of
radio or electronic facilities on the airport or with radio or electronic
communications between the airport and aircraft, make it difficult for pilots
to distinguish between airport lights and other lights, results in glare in the
eyes of pilots using the airport, impairs visibility in the vicinity of the
airport, or otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or maneuvering of
aircraft.
         (b)   Zone A: Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in (C)(2) and to the general restrictions contained in (D)(2)(a), areas
designated as Zone A shall contain no buildings, temporary structures, exposed
transmission lines, or other similar above ground land use structural hazards,
and shall be restricted to those uses which will not create, attract, or bring
together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may include, but are
not limited to, such uses as agriculture (seasonal crops), horticulture, animal
husbandry, raising of livestock, wildlife habitat, light outdoor recreation
(non-spectator), cemeteries and automobile parking.
         (c)   Zone B: Subject at all times to the height restrictions set
forth in (C)(2), and to the general restrictions contained in (D)(2)(a), areas
designated as Zone B shall be restricted in use as follows:
            1.   Each use shall be on a site whose area shall not be less than
three acres;
            2.   Each use shall not create, attract, or bring together a site
population that would exceed 15 times that of the site acreage;
            3.   Each site shall have no more than one building plot upon which
any number of structures may be erected; and
            4.   A building plot shall be a single, uniform, and non-contrived
area, whose shape is uncomplicated and whose area shall not exceed the
following minimum ratios with respect to the total site area:
 
Table 6.8 Maximum Ground Area and Population
Lot Size           Ratio Building Plot Area Maximum Site Population
3.00 – 3.99 acres 12:1  10,900 sq. ft.     45 persons
4.00 – 5.99 acres 10:1  17,400 sq. ft.     60 persons
6.00 – 9.99 acres 8:1   32,600 sq. ft.     90 persons
10.00 – 19.99 acre6:1   72,500 sq. ft.     150 persons
>20.00 acres        4:1   218,000 sq. ft.    300 persons
 
            5.   The following uses are specifically prohibited in Zone B:
Churches, hospitals, schools, theaters, stadiums, hotels, motels, trailer
courts, campgrounds, and other places of frequent public or semi-public
assembly.
         (d)   Zone C: Subject only to height restrictions set forth in (D)(2),
and to the general restrictions contained in (D)(2)(a).
         (e)   Exemptions – Established Residential Neighborhoods: There are no
lands designated as Established Residential Neighborhoods in Built-Up Urban
Areas based upon the status of development existing on January 1, 1978.
      (3)   Boundary limitations. The land use zoning restrictions set forth in
this ordinance shall apply for a distance not to exceed one mile beyond the
perimeter of the airport boundary and in that portion of an airport hazard area
under the approach zone for a distance not exceeding two miles from the airport
boundary.
   (E)   Airport zoning map. The several zones herein established are shown on
the Waseca municipal airport zoning map, consisting of four sheets, prepared by
TKDA, and dated September 30, 2019 , attached hereto and made a part hereof,
which map, together with such amendments thereto as may from time to time be
made, and all notations, references, elevations, data, zone boundaries, and
other information thereon, shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part of
this ordinance.
   (F)   Nonconforming uses. Regulations not retroactive. The regulations
prescribed by this ordinance shall not be construed to require the removal,
lowering, or other changes or alteration of any structure or tree not
conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this ordinance, or
otherwise interfere with the continuance of any nonconforming use. Nothing
herein contained shall require any change in the construction, alteration, or
intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which was
begun prior to the effective date of this ordinance, and is diligently
prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.
   (G)   Permits.
      (1)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in paragraphs (a) and
(b) hereunder, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure shall be erected, altered, or otherwise established in any zone
hereby created unless a permit therefore shall have been applied for and
granted by the Zoning Administrator, hereinafter, provided for. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted.
         (a)   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than 75 feet
of vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway except when such tree or
structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would
extend above the height or land use limit prescribed for the respective zone.
         (b)   Nothing contained in this foregoing exception shall be construed
as permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration or growth of
any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limitations established by
this ordinance as set forth in (C) and the land use limitations set forth in
(D).
      (2)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be
replaced, substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt within any zone
established herein, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement,
change, or repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the
establishment or creation of an airport hazard or permit a nonconforming use,
structure, or tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on
the effective date of this ordinance or any amendments thereto, or than it is
when the application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all
applications for such a permit shall be granted.
      (3)   Nonconforming uses abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a nonconforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, deteriorated or decayed, no permit shall
be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the applicable
height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations. Whether
application is made for a permit under this paragraph or not, the Zoning
Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure, at his or her own expense, to lower, remove,
reconstruct or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to the
provisions of this ordinance. In the event the owner of the nonconforming
structure shall neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after
receipt of written notice of such order, the Zoning Administrator may, by
appropriate legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed
nonconforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed, or equipped and assess
the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was
located. Unless such an assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of
notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the
rate of 8% per annum from the date the cost and expense is incurred until paid,
and shall be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
   (H)   Variance. Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any
structure, permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property, not in
accordance with the regulations prescribed in this ordinance, may apply to the
Board of Adjustment, hereinafter provided for, for a variance from such
regulations. If a person submits an application for a variance by certified
mail to the members of the Board and the Board fails to grant or deny the
variance within four months after the last member receives the application, the
variance shall be deemed to be granted by the Board. When the variance is
granted by reason of the failure of the Board to act on the variance, the
person receiving the variance shall notify the Board and the Commissioner, by
certified mail, that the variance has been granted. The applicant shall include
a copy of the original application for the variance with this notice to the
Commissioner. The variance shall be effective 60 days after this notice is
received by the Commissioner subject to any action taken by the Commissioner
pursuant to M.S. § 360.063, Subd. 6a. Such variances shall be allowed where it
is duly found that a literal application or enforcement of the regulations
would result in practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, and relief
granted would not be contrary to the public interest but do substantial justice
and be in accordance with the spirit of this ordinance provided any variance so
allowed may be subject to any reasonable conditions that the Board or
Commissioner may deem necessary to effectuate the purpose of this ordinance.
The Board of Adjustment may request the following prior to making a decision:
      (1)   A review of the variance application by the MnDOT Office of
Aeronautics.
      (2)   Airspace determination issued to the project proponent by the
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for proposed action(s) requiring notice
per Code of Federal Regulations, Title 14, Part 77.9.
   (I)   Hazard marking and lighting.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses. The owner of any nonconforming structure or
tree is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the City of Waseca.
      (2)   Permits and variances. Any permit or variance deemed advisable to
effectuate the purpose of this ordinance and be reasonable in the
circumstances, and granted by the Zoning Administrator or Board shall require
the owner of the structure or tree in question at his or her own expense, to
install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
   (J)   Airport Zoning Administrator. 
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City of Waseca Planning and Zoning
Coordinator, and Waseca County Planning and Zoning Administrator, to administer
and enforce the regulations prescribed herein within their respective
jurisdictions.
      (2)   Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the
respective Airport Zoning Administrator upon a form furnished by them.
      (3)   Permit applications shall be promptly considered and granted or
denied by them in accordance with the regulations prescribed herein.
      (4)   Variance applications shall be forthwith transmitted by the Airport
Zoning Administrator for action by the Board, hereinafter provided for.
   (K)   Zoning Code Amendment. The City Council for the City of Waseca and
County Board of Commissioners for Waseca County will each determine how to
administer the regulations of the Waseca Airport Zoning Ordinance and any
proposed changes to their respective zoning codes within their respective
jurisdictions.
   (L)   Board of Adjustment. City of Waseca Planning Commission shall serve as
the Board of Adjustment for requests within the City of Waseca and the Waseca
County Board of Adjustment shall serve as the Board of Adjustment for requests
within Waseca County outside of City of Waseca limits.
      (1)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the
following powers:
         (a)   Hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Administrator in the enforcement of this
ordinance.
         (b)   Hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this section
upon which such Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be required to
pass.
         (c)   Hear and decide specific variances.
      (2)   Procedures.
         (a)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this ordinance. Meetings of the
Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the chairperson and at such
other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The chairperson, or in
his or her absence the acting chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be a public record.
         (b)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of facts and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this ordinance.
         (c)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this section,
or to effect any variation in this ordinance.
   (M)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of
the Zoning Administrator made in his administration of this ordinance may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeals may also be made by any
governing body of a municipality, county, or airport zoning board, which is of
the opinion that a decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper
application of this ordinance as it concerns such governing body or board.
      (2)   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 30 days of the
Zoning Administrator's decision, by filing with the Zoning Administrator a
notice of appeal specifying the grounds thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall
forthwith transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed from was taken. In addition, any person
aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decisions of the Zoning
Administrator made in his administration of this ordinance who desires to
appeal such decision shall submit an application for a variance, by certified
mail, to the members of the Board of Adjustment in the manner set forth in M.S.
§ 360.068, Subd. 2.
      (3)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason of
the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be
stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
      (4)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing, any party may
appear in person, by agent, or by attorney.
      (5)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of
this ordinance, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (N)   Judicial review.
      (1)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of
the Board of Adjustment, or any governing body of a municipality, county, or
airport zoning board, believes that a decision of the Board of Adjustment is
illegal may appeal in accordance with M.S. Chapter 14; or
      (2)   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of
the Board of Adjustment, or any governing body of a municipality, county, or
airport zoning board, which is of the opinion that a decision of the Board of
Adjustment is illegal may present to the District Court of Waseca County a
verified petition setting forth that the decision or action is illegal, in
whole or in part, and specifying the grounds of the illegality. Such petition
shall be presented to the court within 30 days after the decision is filed in
the office of the Board of Adjustment. The petitioner must exhaust the remedies
provided in this ordinance before availing himself or herself of the right to
petition a court as provided by this ordinance.
   (O)   Penalties. Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially
change, alter or repair any existing structure or use, or permit the growth of
any tree without having complied with the provision of this section or who,
having been granted a permit or variance under the provisions of this
ordinance, shall construct, establish, substantially change or substantially
alter or repair any existing growth or structure or permit the growth of any
tree, except as permitted by such permit or variance, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both. Each day a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The airport Zoning
Administrator may enforce all provisions of this ordinance through such
proceedings for injunctive relief and other relief as may be proper under the
laws of M.S. § 360.073 and other applicable law.
   (P)   Conflicts. Where there exists a conflict between any of the
regulations or limitations prescribed in this ordinance and any other
regulations applicable to the same area, whether the conflict be with respect
to the height of structures or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the
more stringent limitation or regulation shall govern and prevail.
   (Q)   Severability.
      (1)   In any case in which the provision of this ordinance, although
generally reasonable, is held by a court to interfere with the use or enjoyment
of a particular structure or parcel of land to such an extent, or to be so
onerous in their application to such a structure or parcel of land, as to
constitute a taking or deprivation of that property in violation of the
constitution of this state or the constitution of the United States, such
holding shall not affect the application of this ordinance as to other
structures and parcels of land, and to this end the provisions of this
ordinance are declared to be severable.
      (2)   Should any section or provision of this ordinance be declared by
the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other than the
parts so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
Table 6.9 Properties Impacted by Airport Overlay District
This ordinance affects all or a portion of the following sections of land:
                            Type of Airport Zoning
                            Airspace Obstruction     Land Use Safety Zoning:
Name and Number of Township Zoning: Section IV of    Section V of Ordinance;
                            Ordinance; Page(s) B1 of Page(s) B2, B3 & B4 of
                            Zoning Map               Zoning Map
Table 6.9 Properties Impacted by Airport Overlay District
This ordinance affects all or a portion of the following sections of land:
                        Type of Airport Zoning
                        Airspace Obstruction        Land Use Safety Zoning:
Name and Number of      Zoning: Section IV of       Section V of Ordinance;
Township                Ordinance; Page(s) B1 of    Page(s) B2, B3 & B4 of
                        Zoning Map                  Zoning Map
City of Waseca          Sections                    Sections
T107N, R22W             6, 7, 8, 17, 18, 19, 20     7, 18, 19
T107N, R23W             12, 13                      12, 13
                        1, 2, 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11,   1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13,
St. Mary Township       12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 21, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22, 23, 24,
T107N, R23W             22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 25, 26, 27
                        34, 35, 36
Woodville Township      6, 7, 8, 17, 18, 19, 20,    7, 18, 19, 30
T107N, R22W             29, 30, 31
Iosco Township          34, 35, 36                  None
T108N, R23W
Blooming Grove Township 31                          None
T108N, R22W
 
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 144, passed 11-17-2020; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-
2025)
§ 6.25 AIC AGRICULTURAL INTERPRETIVE CENTER DISTRICT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The AIC Agricultural Interpretive Center District is intended
to protect the site of the Minnesota Agricultural Interpretive Center (MAIC)
and provide for the use of the district.
   (B)   District boundaries. District boundaries shall be defined as outside
boundary lines and inclusive of the following quarter sections: the S1/2 of the
NW1/4, the SW1/4, and the W1/2 of the SE1/4 and the SW1/4 of the NE1/4, all in
Section 8, Township 107 North, Range 23 West, Waseca County.
   (C)   Permitted and conditional uses. Specific permitted, conditional and
accessory uses are subject to the requirements in Articles 3, 4 and 6 of this
ordinance, and include solar farms.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)    Agriculture and incidental agricultural uses, including
agricultural building(s);
         (b)   Agricultural chemicals, fertilizer sales;
         (c)   Forestry, production of woodland products, nurseries, tree
farms;
         (d)   Grain elevator, grain storage and drying (commercial);
         (e)   Seasonal produce stand;
         (f)   Single-family detached dwelling;
         (g)   Two-family dwelling;
         (h)   Accessory dwelling unit;
         (i)   Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(B);
         (j)   Licensed residential program;
         (k)   Parks and public recreation areas;
         (l)   Campground;
         (m)   Convention center, exhibit hall;
         (n)   Flea market, auction site;
         (o)   Retail sales establishment;
         (p)   Agricultural direct market;
         (q)   Two-sided electronic message center advertising signs of 40
square feet or less per side; and
         (r)   Sober house.
      (2)   Conditional uses (see
Article 4 for accessory uses).
         (a)   Mineral extraction, mining;
         (b)   Natural resource manufacturing and processing;
         (c)   Temporary worker housing;
         (d)   Cemetery, memorial garden;
         (e)   Religious institution;
         (f)   Organized group camp;
         (g)   Riding academy, boarding stable;
         (h)    Manufacturing: limited, including light assembly and packing;
         (i)   Two-sided electronic message center advertising signs over 40
square feet per side;
         (j)   Home occupation, pursuant to §
6.11(C); and
         (k)   Agritourism.
   (D)   Permitted accessory uses. The following shall be permitted accessory
uses in the AIC Agricultural Interpretive District:
      (1)   Private garages;
      (2)   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
      (3)   The keeping of not more than two boarders or roomers by a resident
family;
      (4)   Private swimming pool when enclosed with a fence that extends from
the ground to a height of five feet; and
      (5)   Other accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted
in subsection (C) above.
   (E)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   Height:
         (a)   Agricultural buildings are exempt from height limitations and
lot size requirements unless they are located in a special airport zone; and
         (b)   Non-agricultural buildings hereafter erected or altered shall
not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is
greater.
      (2)   Lot area, residential dwellings:
         (a)    Agricultural buildings are exempt from height limitations and
lot size requirements unless they are located in a special airport zone; and
         (b)   Non-agricultural buildings hereafter erected or altered shall
not exceed a height of two and one-half stories or 35 feet, whichever is
greater.
      (3)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   Single-family dwelling: 100 feet; and
         (b)   Two-family dwelling: 300 feet.
      (4)   Minimum setback from centerline all federal, state, county, and
county-state aid highways, principal structure. Front yard: 150 feet;
      (5)   Minimum setback from the centerline of all other public rights-of-
way, principal structure. Front yard: 125 feet;
      (6)   Minimum setback from property lines, all structures.
         (a)   Side yard: 80 feet; and
         (b)   Rear yard: 60 feet.
      (7)   Minimum setback from accessory structures (less than 100 square
feet in area and less than 14 feet in height): accessory structures not allowed
in front yard:
         (a)   Side yard: ten feet; and
         (b)   Rear yard: ten feet.
      (8)   Minimum windbreak and tree setback from public right-of-way less
than 100 feet in width: 20 feet;
      (9)   Minimum windbreak and tree setback from public right-of-way greater
than 100 feet in width: 15 feet;
      (10)   Minimum shrub windbreak setback from parcel boundary line:
         (a)   Side boundary line: ten feet; and
         (b)   Rear boundary line: ten feet.
      (11)   Minimum tree windbreak setback from parcel boundary line:
         (a)   Side boundary line: 20 feet; and
         (b)   Rear boundary line: 20 feet.
      (12)   Rear and side line setbacks on a parcel of land for windbreaks and
trees may be eliminated or diminished by agreement of adjoining property owners
when their agreement is in writing and filed with the Zoning Administrator.
Such agreements may be on forms available from the Zoning Administrator.
   (F)   General regulations. Additional requirements for signs and other
regulations in the AIC Agricultural Interpretive Center District are set forth
in Articles
3 and
4 and the conditional use and specific development standards in Articles
3 and
6.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 117, passed 6-17-2014; Ord. 118, passed 8-19-
2014; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.26 SUMMARY OF ALLOWED AND CONDITIONAL USES.
Table 6.10 Summary of Allowed and Conditional Uses
Zoning District
Land Use A-1:         LR: Limited UE: Urban VMX: Village HC: Highway I: General
         Agricultural Residential Expansion Mixed Use    Commercial  Industrial
Table 6.10 Summary of Allowed and Conditional Uses
Zoning District
                                                                    VMX:    HC:
Land Use                         A-1:         LR: Limited UE: Urban Village Highway    I: General
                                 Agricultural Residential Expansion Mixed   Commercial Industrial
                                                                    Use
Accessory Uses and Structures
Family daycare                   P            P           P         P
Group family daycare             P            P           P         P
Keeping of animals other than    C
household pets (non-farm)
Kennels, commercial              C            C                     C                  P
Outdoor display                  C                        C         C       C          P
Parking facility                                                    P       P          P
Solar equipment Solar energy     P            P           P         P       P          P
systems (accessory)
Swimming pool, hot tub           P            P           P         P       P
Water-oriented accessory
structures (docks, lifts and the P            C           P         P       P
like)
Wind turbine, accessory          P            P           P         P       C          C
Other accessory uses and
structures that are incidental   P            P           P         P       P          P
to the principal use including
sheds and garages
Agricultural, Natural Resources
and Related
Agriculture                      P            P           P                            P
Agricultural chemicals,          C                                  C       P          P
fertilizer sales
Agriculturally-oriented business C                                  P       P          P
Agritourism                      C            C                             P          P
                                 C
                                 (>25 % produ
                                 cts produ
                                 ced off-
Agricultural direct-market       site)                                      P          P
                                 P
                                 (<25 %
                                 products
                                 produ ced
                                 off- site)
Agricultural equipment sale      C
Ethanol or biofuel production,   C                                                     P
commercial
Feed and seed sales              P                                          P          P
Feed lots                        P/C          C           C         C
Forestry, production of woodland P            P           P
products, nurseries, tree farms
Grain elevator, grain storage    C                                  C       P          P
and drying (commercial)
Livestock sales barn and         C                                  C
accessory facilities
Mineral extraction, mining       C                                                     C
Natural resource manufacturing   C                                          P          P
and processing
Seasonal produce stand           P            P           P         P       P          P
Wildlife area, fish hatchery and
forest preserve owned or         P            P           P
operated by governmental
agencies
Commercial Recreation
Campground                       C            C           C         C       C
Go-cart track, miniature golf,                                              P
skating rink (unenclosed)
Golf course, country club,       C            C           C                 C
driving range
Gun or archery range, indoor     C                        C                 P
Gun or archery range, outdoor    C                                          C
Hunting club (private), hunting  C            C
preserve
Organized group camp             C            C
Organized motor sports: ATVs,
trucks, tractors or motorcycle
tracks or trails (not including  C                        C                 C          C
auto or other vehicle racing,
tracks or events)
Paint ball course                C                        C                 C
Riding academy, boarding stable  C            C           C                 P
Skating rink (enclosed), dance
hall, game arcade, bowling                                C         C       P
alley, health club
Commercial Sales and Service
Adult uses                                                                  C          P
Airport, heliport, aircraft
rental, sale, servicing,         C                                                     P
manufacturing and related
services
Art, photography, crafts                                            P       P
gallery, pottery shop, studios
Automobile repair                                                   C       P          C
Automobile service station, car                                     C       P          C
wash
Automobile, trailer, marine,
recreational vehicle and farm                                               P          P
implement sales
Bakery, coffee shop                                                 P       P
Barber, beauty shop                           P                     P       P
Bed and breakfast                C            P                     P       P
Building material sales and
storage, lumberyard, garden                               C                 P          P
store, commercial greenhouse,
manufactured home sales
Cannabis cultivation             C                                          C          C
                                 C 
Cannabis delivery                (up to 5                                              C
                                 vehicles)
Cannabis manufacturer            C                                          C          C
Cannabis wholesale                                                          C          C
Cannabis retail                                           C         P
Cannabis transportation          C                                          C          C
Convenience gas and goods sales                                     P       P          C
Convention center, exhibit hall                                             P
Flea market, auction site                                 P                 P          P
Hemp manufacturer                C                                          C          C
Laundry, laundromat                                                         P
Motel, hotel                                                                P
Office- professional or medical                           C         C       P
Office, other than professional                           C         C       P
or medical
Office services                                           C                 P          P
Repair services 1                                         C         C       P          P
Restaurant (drive-in), theater
(drive-in), or similar uses that                          C                 P          C
provide goods and services to
patrons in automobiles
Restaurant                                                C         C       P
Retail sales establishment 2                              C         P       P
Shopping center                                                             P
Tavern, club                                                        C       P
Veterinary and animal clinic and
facilities for the care and/or   C                        C         C       P          C
breeding of animals including
kennel
Water-oriented commercial                                                   C
business
Industrial
Advertising sign (off-site)                                                 C          C
Cold storage plant, ice plant                                                          P
Contractor’s yard with outdoor                                                       P
storage
Fertilizer manufacture                                                                 C
Industrial sales establishment,                                                        P
including auction houses3
Landfill (sanitary), recycling   C                                                     C
facility
Manufacturing- limited,
including light assembly and                                                           P
packing4
Manufacturing, general5                                                                P
Salvage yard, recycling facility
with incinerator, other                                                                C
facilities with incinerators
Storage, bulk                    C                                                     C
Truck terminal, truck stop,                                                 C          P
freight terminal
Warehouse distribution facility                                             C          P
Institutional, Educational and
Civic
Cemetery, memorial garden        C            C           C         C
Daycare center                   C            C           P         P       P
Highway maintenance shops and    P                        C                            P
yard
Local governmental agency
building or facility, community  P            P           P         P       P          P
center
Parks and public recreation      P            P           P         P       P          P
areas
Religious institution            C            P           P         P       C
School, public or private                                 P         P       C
School, trade                                                                          P
Other Uses
Antennas for radio, television   C                                                     C
and communication facilities
Essential services, facilities   C            C           C         C       C          C
and structures
Railroad right-of-way, but not   P            P           P         P       P          P
including railroad yard
Wind farm                        C
Residential and Related
Accessory dwelling unit          P            P           C         P       P
Boarding house                                C           C         C
Home occupation                  P/C          P/C         P/C       P/C
Licensed residential program (up P            P           P         P       C
to 8 residents)
Manufactured home park                                    C         C
Multi-family dwelling                         C                     C
Single-family detached dwelling  P            P           P         P       C
Temporary worker housing         C            C           C
Two-family dwelling              C            C           C         C
Sober house                      P            P           P         P                  
1 Repair services include, but are not limited to, the repair of: appliances; furniture and
upholstery; jewelry; shoes; musical instruments; watches; and other articles generally found for
sale in retail sales establishments.
2 Retail sales establishments include, but are not limited to, establishments that offer the
following goods and/or service: antique and collectibles; bicycle sales and repair; books;
clothing; convenience food goods; drugs; groceries; guns and ammunition; hardware; jewelry;
music; musical instruments; newspapers and magazines; office furniture and supplies; picture
framing; recreation equipment sales and service; stationery; tobacco; tourist related sales and
service; video sales and rentals.
3 Industrial sales establishment includes: dental instruments and supplies; medical and surgical
instruments and supplies; precision instrument sales; sign contractor and welding supply.
4 Limited manufacturing includes: manufacture and assembly of cabinets and woodworking products;
camera and photographic products; clothing; computers and accessories; confectionary and related
products; footwear; film and video equipment; hand and edge tools; handbags and luggage;
laboratory instruments and associated equipment; medical equipment; sports equipment; temperature
controls; telecommunications equipment; bottling or distillation; printing; publishing; engraving
and reproduction; newspaper plant and office; design and manufacture of patterns.
5 General manufacturing includes the manufacturing and/or assembly of these products or
conducting these processes: electric lighting and wiring equipment; electrical products and
appliances; fabricated metal, plastic and rubber products (except tires and inner tubes); glass
and glass products; textiles and fabrics; optical instruments and lenses; gypsum, drywall,
plaster, and stone products; machinery and equipment such as engines and turbines, cooling and
refrigeration equipment, and machine tools; metal working such as stamping, welding, extruding,
engraving, plating, grinding, polishing, cleaning and heat-treating.
 
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
§ 6.27 CLOSED LANDFILL RESTRICTED (CLR) DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The Closed Landfill Restricted (CLR) District is intended to
apply to former landfills that are qualified to be under the Closed Landfill
Program of the State Pollution Control Agency (MPCA). The purpose of the
district is to limit uses of land within the closed landfill, both actively
filled and related lands, to minimal uses in order to protect the land from
human activity where response action systems are in place and, at the same
time, are protective of human health and safety. This district shall only apply
to the closed landfill’s land management area, the limits of which are defined
by the MPCA, and is legally described as shown on the zoning map amendment.
This district shall apply whether the landfill is in public (MPCA, county,
city, township), Indian tribal or private ownership.
   (B)   Permitted uses according to the closed landfill program land use plan
approved by State Pollution Control Agency on file at the County Planning and
Zoning office.
      (1)   Closed landfill management;
      (2)   Temporary waste tire storage;
      (3)   County storage and equipment maintenance; and
      (4)   Yard waste recycling.
   (C)   Accessory uses according to the closed landfill program land use plan
approved by State Pollution Control Agency on file at the County Planning and
Zoning office.
      (1)   Accessory uses allowed in this district include outdoor equipment
or small buildings used in concert with gas extraction systems, other response
action systems, monitoring wells or any other equipment designed to protect,
monitor or otherwise ensure the integrity of the landfill monitoring or
improvement systems. Fences and gates are permitted under these provisions.
      (2)   Accessory buildings for uses other than the landfill management
must be located outside of the methane gas area of concern.
   (D)   Conditional uses according to the closed landfill program land use
plan approved by State Pollution Control Agency on file at the Waseca County
Planning and Zoning office. Conditional uses shall be limited to uses that do
not damage the integrity of the land management area and that continue to
protect any person from hazards associated with the landfill. Any application
for a conditional use must be approved by the Commissioner of the MPCA and the
county. Detailed site plan and management plans shall be required with
conditional use permit applications.
      (1)   Such approved use shall not disturb or threaten to disturb, the
integrity of the landfill cover, liners, any other components of any
containment system, the function of any monitoring system that exists upon the
described property, or other areas of the land management area that the
Commissioner of the MPCA deems necessary for future response actions.
         (a)   Law enforcement firearms practice range conditioned on the
approval of a site plan and management plan by the MPCA Commissioner and the
county;
         (b)   Wildlife Management food plots and shelter belts;
         (c)   Solar energy conversion;
         (d)   Archery range/course; and
         (e)   Wind energy conversion.
      (2)   All conditional use permit uses must be approved by the
Commissioner of the MPCA and the county.
   (E)   Prohibited uses and structures. All other uses and structures not
specifically allowed as conditional uses, or that cannot be considered as
accessory uses, shall be prohibited in the CLR District.
   (F)   General regulations. Requirements for site design and other
regulations related to the uses of the property are included, but not limited
to, those specified in Article 4 General Regulations and Article 5 General
Environmental Regulations, within the County Unified Development Code.
   (G)   Amendments. Any amendment to this ordinance must be approved by the
Commissioner of the MPCA and the county.
(Ord. 106, passed 2-21-2012)
ARTICLE 7: ADMINISTRATION, FEES, VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
7.01   Zoning Administrator
   
7.02   Planning Commission
   
7.03   Board of Adjustment
   
7.04   Violations and penalties
   
7.05   Nuisance control
   
7.06   Enforcement
§ 7.01 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Position established. The office of County Zoning Administrator is
hereby established, for which the Board of County Commissioners may appoint an
Administrator and such other personnel necessary to discharge the duties of the
office.
   (B)   Duties. The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include the
following:
      (1)   To be in direct administration of this ordinance, the County
Subdivision Regulations and Feedlot Ordinance;
      (2)   Issue zoning permits and any other permits as required by the terms
of this ordinance;
      (3)   To receive and forward to the Board of County Commissioners, County
Planning Commission, Board of Adjustment and other appropriate agencies as
required or appropriate by state statutes all applications, documents and
actions;
      (4)   To keep or supervise the keeping of all necessary records, plats
and maps;
      (5)   To act as Secretary to the Board of Adjustment and County Planning
Commission;
      (6)   To act as advisor to the Board of Adjustment and County Planning
Commission;
      (7)   Provide information upon request relative to matters of this
ordinance, the County Subdivision Regulations, the County Planning Commission
and the Board of Adjustment; and
      (8)   Report on a regular basis to the County Board of Commissioners the
recommendations, findings and decisions of the County Planning Commission and
Board of Adjustment for final action where necessary.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 7.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment, organization and membership. The County Board of
Commissioners hereby establishes the County Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission shall consist of seven members appointed by the Chair of the Board.
The following membership requirements shall be met.
      (1)   At least two members shall be residents of the portion of the
county outside the corporate limits of municipalities.
      (2)   The term of each member shall begin January 1, and continue through
December 31. All appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed. Each member shall serve for a period of three years, except the term
of the officer or employee appointed by the Board shall be annually. The
beginning and ending terms of members shall be staggered as much as feasibly
possible to provide for proportional rotation of its members.
      (3)   Each member may be eligible at the discretion of the County Board
for reappointment.
      (4)   No more than one voting member of the Planning Commission shall
serve as an officer or employee of the county.
      (5)   No voting member of the Planning Commission shall receive, during
the two years prior to appointment, any substantial portion of his or her
income from business operations involving the development of land within Waseca
County for the development of land for urban and urban related purposes.
      (6)   Any question of whether a particular issue involves a conflict of
interest sufficient to disqualify a Planning Commission member from voting
thereon shall be decided by majority vote of all regular Commission members,
except the member who is being challenged.
      (7)   The County Board may designate by resolution any county officer or
employee or any other person as a non-voting, ex-officio member of the
Commission.
      (8)   The Commission may call for the removal of any member for non-
performance of duty or misconduct in office. Upon a second meeting absence in a
12-month period, the Secretary shall notify the member of such absence via
letter. If a member has three absences in any 12-month period, the Secretary
shall certify this fact to the Commission and the Commission shall notify the
County Board. The Board Chair shall appoint a replacement for the unexpired
term as if the member has resigned.
      (9)   Should any vacancy occur among the members of this Planning
Commission by reason of death, resignation, disability or otherwise, the
Secretary thereof shall give immediate notice to the Chair of the County Board.
The County Board Chair shall appoint a qualified person for the unexpired term
of the vacant seat.
      (10)   Should any vacancy occur among the Chair or Vice Chair of the
Planning Commission, the vacant office shall be filled in accordance with the
provisions of this subsection, such officer to serve the unexpired term of the
office in which such vacancy shall occur.
      (11)   The members of the Planning Commission, other than the member of
the Board of County Commissioners, may be compensated in an amount determined
by the County Board. All Commission members, including the County Commissioner,
may be paid their necessary expenses in attending meetings of the Commission
and in the conduct of the business of the Commission. Nothing in this paragraph
shall be construed to prohibit the payment of a per diem to the County
Commissioner as set by the County Board.
      (12)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chair and Vice Chair from
among its members at the beginning of each calendar year. The Commission shall
adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a public record
of its transactions, findings and determinations. The Zoning Administrator
shall act as Secretary of the Commission and shall be a non-voting, ex-officio
member.
      (13)   The meetings of the Planning Commission shall be held at the call
of the Chair and at such other times as the Commission may specify in its rules
of procedure.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the following
powers and duties.
      (1)   The Commission shall cooperate with the Zoning Administrator and
other employees of the County in preparing and recommending to the Board for
adoption of a Comprehensive Plan and recommendations for plan execution in the
form of official controls and other measures, and amendments thereto.
      (2)   The Commission shall review all applications for conditional use
permits and plans for subdivisions of land and report thereon to the Board.
      (3)   The Commission may be required by the Board to review any
Comprehensive Plans and official controls and any plans for public land
acquisition and development sent to the county for that purpose by any local
unit of government or any state or federal agency and shall report thereon in
writing to the Board.
      (4)   The Commission shall conduct at least one public hearing on any
Comprehensive Plan or amendments thereto, any official control or amendments
thereto, on any conditional use permit, and any proposal for a subdivision.
      (5)   The Commission shall perform any additional duties and
responsibilities that may be assigned by the Board.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 125, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 7.03 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   A Board of Adjustment shall be established and shall consist of
five members. One member shall be a member of the County Planning Commission.
No elected officer of the county, nor any employee of the Board of
Commissioners, shall serve as a member of the Board of Adjustment.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment members shall be appointed by resolution of
the County Board, each for a term of three years. Two appointments shall be
made at the beginning of each calendar year, except that every third year one
appointment shall be made. Each member shall be eligible for reappointment by
the County Board.
      (3)   The County Board may, by resolution, remove any Board of Adjustment
member for non-performance of duty or misconduct in office. Vacancies which
occur by reason of death, resignation, disability or otherwise, shall be filled
by an appointment by the County Board for the unexpired term of the vacant
seat.
      (4)   Any question of whether a particular issue involves a conflict of
interest sufficient to disqualify a Board of Adjustment member from voting
thereon shall be decided by majority vote of all regular Board members, except
the member who is being challenged.
      (5)   The members of the Board of Adjustment may be compensated, as
determined by the County Board, and may be paid their necessary expenses in
attending meetings of the Board and the conduct of the business of the Board.
      (6)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and Vice
Chairperson from among its members at the beginning of each calendar year. The
Board shall adopt rules for the transaction of its business and shall keep a
public record of its transactions, findings and determinations. The Zoning
Administrator shall act as Secretary of the Board.
      (7)   The meetings of the Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at such other times as the Board may specify in its
rules of procedures.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
powers and duties.
      (1)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals when
it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by the administrative official in the enforcement of this
ordinance.
      (2)   Variances. The Board shall order the issuance of variances from the
terms of this ordinance in accordance with M.S. Chapter 394, as it may be
amended from time to time, including restrictions placed on nonconformities,
according to the requirements and procedures found in §
3.08.
      (3)   Official map appeals. The Board shall have the exclusive authority
to hear and decide any appeals of a denial of a land use permit by the Board of
Commissioners due to the land’s location on any official map, as set forth in
and under the procedures of M.S. § 394.361, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Other duties. The Board of Adjustment shall order the issuance of
permits for buildings in areas designated for future public use on official
maps. The Board shall also perform such other duties as required by this
ordinance and any other official controls adopted pursuant to the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 394, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Appeals from the Board of Adjustment. All decisions by the Board of
Adjustment shall be final in the granting of variances and in hearing appeals
from any administrative order, requirement, decision or determination. Any
aggrieved person or persons, or any department, board or commission of the
jurisdiction or of the state shall have the right to make an appeal to the
District Court on questions of law and fact. Such appeal shall be made within
30 days after the receipt of the notice of the Board’s decision. Appeal
requirements and procedure are found in §
3.08.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 125, passed 7-18-2017)
§ 7.04 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions
hereof, or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof, or who
shall make any false statement in any document required to be submitted under
the provision hereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the state
maximum for misdemeanors or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days. Each day
that a violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 7.05 NUISANCE CONTROL.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to provide for and control those
nuisances, which will affect the public health and safety of the residents of
the county and further preserve the aesthetic values of the county and
individual neighborhoods.
   (B)   All refuse containing garbage shall be disposed of in such facilities
designated by the County Board in compliance with the county landfill
regulations. It shall be unlawful for any person to dispose of refuse in any
other manner unless prior approval is obtained from the County Board and such
disposal does not provide breeding grounds for rodents or produce noxious
effects on adjoining property.
   (C)   At any time when there is found to exist on any property rodents which
are detrimental or present an unnecessary health threat to adjoining
properties, the property owner of the property shall be given notice of the
nuisance and shall within 45 days correct the rodent problem found to exist.
The method of correction may be extermination utilizing means acceptable to the
county and the State Pollution Control Agency and/or may include the removal of
the source, i.e., debris piles, unprotected storage areas, lumber piles. If
within 45 days the nuisance is not corrected, the county may take corrective
action as provided elsewhere in this section.
   (D)   In all zoning districts, the growth of noxious weeds shall be
controlled to the greatest degree possible. Each property owner shall be
responsible to maintain the area adjacent to the dwelling unit or commercial
structure. In Agricultural Districts, noxious weeds shall be controlled on each
farm or dwelling site. Enforcement of this provision shall be coordinated by
the County Agricultural Inspector.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store materials such as brush
piles, used lumber, unlicensed and inoperable automobiles, unusable recreation
vehicles and appliances or scrap iron, unless such storage is allowed in the
specific zoning district where it is located, or when the storage of those
materials is adequately screened in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance and does not create rodent or other nuisance problems.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 7.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcing officer. This ordinance shall be administered and enforced
by the Zoning Administrator, who is hereby designated the enforcing officer.
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be
punished by a fine of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Duty of Zoning Administrator. It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to enforce this ordinance through the proper legal channels
including the notification and enforcement procedure contained in this section.
      (1)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator determines that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of any provision
of the ordinance, the Zoning Administrator shall give notice of such alleged
violation to the owner of record of the property, as hereinafter provided. Such
corrective action notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons for the issuance;
         (c)   Allow 45 days’ time for the performance of any act it requires
(if work cannot be completed in the 45-day period, extensions may be granted by
the Zoning Administrator if reasons for hardship do prevail and can be
verified); and
         (d)   Be served upon the owner or his or her agent as the case may
require; provided that such notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon such owner or agent when a copy thereof has been sent by
registered mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has been
served with such notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of
this state.
      (2)   Any person affected by any notice that has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provision of this ordinance may request
and shall be granted a hearing of the same before the Board of Adjustment.
      (3)   Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds that an emergency exists,
which requires immediate action to protect the public health, the Zoning
Administrator may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the
existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as he
may deem necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provisions
of this ordinance, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to
whom such an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but upon
petition to the Zoning Administrator shall be afforded a hearing as soon as
possible. The provision shall be applicable to such hearing and the order
issued thereafter.
      (4)   Should the necessary corrective action required not be taken within
45 days after notice by the Zoning Administrator or decision of the Board of
Adjustment or the time frame for any extension granted by the County Zoning
Administrator, the County Board shall be advised of the nuisance and may direct
the County Sheriff to perform such duties as may be necessary to enforce the
provisions of this chapter. In addition, the County Board may institute
appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such
violations or threatened violations, and it shall be the duty of the county
attorney to institute such action. The County Board may provide for the
nuisance correction and charge the property owner for any and all costs
incurred in the process.
      (5)   Shore impact zone for agricultural use violations: violations of
the provisions of the county buffer ordinance will use the notification and
enforcement provisions contained in §
5.05.
   (C)   Duty of the County Recorder. A copy of all recorded plats shall be
submitted by the County Recorder to the Zoning Administrator for review after
recording. The Zoning Administrator shall examine each such instrument to
determine whether the proposed conveyance complies with the subdivision and
platting regulations of the county. If the conveyance does not comply with
regulations, the Zoning Administrator shall give notice by mail of the
potential violation to the parties to the conveyance.
   (D)   County Board notification. Prior to initiating any civil court
proceedings against any violation of this ordinance, the Zoning Administrator
shall first inform the County Board of the alleged violation and notify them of
the required action after conferring with the County Attorney and other
necessary county staff persons.
   (E)   Duty of County Attorney. In the event of a violation or a threatened
violation of this ordinance, the Board of County Commissioners or any member
thereof, in addition to other remedies, may institute appropriate actions or
proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violations or
threatened violations, and it shall be the duty of the County Attorney to
institute such action.
   (F)   Taxpayer action. Any taxpayer or taxpayers of the county may institute
mandamus proceedings in the District Court to compel specific performance by
the proper official or officials, of any duty required by this ordinance.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 126, passed 10-17-2017)
ARTICLE 8: DEFINITIONS
Section
   
8.01   Introduction
   
8.02   Interpretation of certain terms
   
8.03   Definitions and acronyms
§ 8.01 INTRODUCTION.
   Definitions for certain terms and words used in this ordinance are defined
in §
8.03. If not defined in this article, words and terms shall be given the
meanings defined in M.S. Chapter 394, as it may be amended from time to time,
and if not defined there, they shall be given their common meaning.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 8.02 INTERPRETATION OF CERTAIN TERMS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following terms and words shall be
interpreted as follows, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   (A)   The words “shall”, “will” and “must” are mandatory, not discretionary,
and create an obligation or duty to comply with the particular provision.
   (B)   The word “may” is permissive.
   (C)   The word “person” shall include individuals, businesses, firms,
associations, organizations, partnerships, trusts, companies and corporations.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future.
   (E)   Words used in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural
the singular, unless otherwise indicated in the text.
   (F)   The word “and” used in conjunction with a series of items shall mean
all items must occur.
   (G)   The masculine gender shall include the feminine.
   (H)   The term “used for” shall include the terms “arranged for”, “designed
for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   (I)   Any word or term, which appears in this ordinance that, is not defined
herein shall be interpreted and defined by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009)
§ 8.03 DEFINITIONS AND ACRONYMS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A detached, subordinate structure, the use
of which is clearly incidental and related to that of the principal structure
or use of the land, and which is located on the same lot as that of the
principal structure or use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is subordinate in area, extent and purpose to the
principal use. It is clearly incidental and related to the principal structure,
building or use of land, and located on the same lot as that of the principal
structure, building or use.
   ADULT USE-BODY PAINTING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a person when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of “specified anatomical area”.
   ADULT USE-BOOKSTORE OR SEXUAL PARAPHERNALIA STORE. A building or portion of
a building used for the barter, rental, or sale of any one of the following:
      (1)   Printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape,
DVD or motion picture film if such building or portion of a building is not
open to the public generally but only to one or more classes of the public
excluding any minor by reason of age or if a substantial or significant portion
of such items are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas”; or
      (2)   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are design for use in
connection with specified sexual activities.
   ADULT USE-CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing
dancing or other live entertainment, if such building or portion of a building
excludes minors by virtue of age or if such dancing or live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment which
excludes minors by reason of age or which provides the service of listening to
or engaging in conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
   ADULT USE-CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that excludes
minors by reason of age or which provides the service of listening to or
engaging in conversation, talk or discussion, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-GOODS OR MATERIALS. Adult use goods or materials include, but are
not limited to goods, materials, items, articles, clothing or services in which
there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or descriptions of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sports club that excludes minors by
reason of age or if such club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-HOTEL/MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, or
describing or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club that
restricts minors by reason of age and which provides the service of massage if
such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building
with a capacity of less than 50 persons used for presenting material if such
building or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by
reason of age or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT USE-MODELING STUDIOS. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”
while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured,
photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
   ADULT USE-MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin-operated or slug-operated, or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motor picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
   ADULT USE-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material if such building or
portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by reason of age
or if such material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation
by patrons therein.
   ADULT USE-NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business that has as a principal activity the
sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices that are designed for
sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USE-SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age, or which
provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing,
relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or
reducing agent, if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USE-STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building
used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if such building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age or if the service provided by the steam room/
bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT USES. Adult uses include, but are not limited to, adult bookstores,
adult motion picture theaters, adult picture rental, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult steam room/bathhouse/sauna facilities,
adult companionship establishments, adult rap/conversation parlors, adult
health/sport clubs, adult cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion
picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body
painting studios and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or
places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or description of “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” which are capable of being
seen by members of the public.
   ADULT USES-ACCESSORY. An adult use, business or establishment having no more
than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in which it is located; or
having no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire business operation;
and not involving or including any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
   ADULT USES-PRINCIPAL. An adult use, business or establishment having more
than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in which it is located; or
having more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire business operation
derived from any adult use.
   AERIAL IRRIGATION (OF ANIMAL WASTE). The spreading of animal waste into the
air with the aid of pipes, hoses, pumps and/or spraying nozzles. The spreading
of liquid materials with the use of commercially produced manure spreaders is
not considered AERIAL IRRIGATION.
   AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA).
   AGGREGATED PROJECT. In reference to regulating wind energy conversion
systems, aggregated projects are those which are developed and operated in a
coordinated fashion, but which have multiple entities separately owning one or
more of the individual WECS within the larger project. Associated
infrastructure such as power lines and transformers that service the facility
may be owned by a separate entity but are also included as part of the
AGGREGATED PROJECT.
   AGRICULTURE. 
      (1)   The use of land for the production for commercial purposes and on
the farm use of livestock and livestock products, other animals and other
animal products, poultry and poultry products and all crops, including, but not
limited to, the following:
         (a)   Farm livestock and livestock products - domestic animals kept
for use on the farm or raised for sale or profit, including but not limited to
dairy and beef cattle, swine, sheep, goats, horses, bees, honey, milk, cheese,
butter and meat;
         (b)   Other animals, except farm livestock, for their pelt, pleasure
or sport, including, but not limited to, rabbits, mink, dogs, ponies, buffalo
and deer; the term shall not include wild, exotic or predatory-type animals
such as, but not limited to, tigers, panthers, wolves and the like;
         (c)   Domestically raised fowl for food and pleasure, including, but
not limited to, chickens, turkeys, ducks, geese and game birds;
         (d)   Field crops, including, but not limited to, corn, milo,
soybeans, sorghum, sunflowers, wheat, oats, rye, barley, hay, potatoes, beans
and peas;
         (e)   Fruit, including, but not limited to, apples, plums, apricots,
peaches, grapes, cherries and berries;
         (f)   Horticultural specialties, including, but not limited to,
ornamental shrubs, trees and flowers; and
         (g)   Vegetables, including, but not limited to, tomatoes, snap beans,
cabbage, carrots, beans, onions and sweet corn.
      (2)   The term shall include incidental retail selling by the producer of
products raised on the premises, provided that space necessary for parking of
vehicles of customers shall be furnished outside the public right-of-way.
      (3)   The term shall include the retail sale of seed and feed by the
owner or occupant of agricultural land where such sales are secondary to other
agricultural activities and there is no exterior evidence of such secondary use
except farm dwellings or agricultural buildings.
   AGRICULTURAL FEED, MIXING AND BLENDING, SEED AND FERTILIZER SALES. An
establishment engaged in retail sale of supplies directly related to the day-
to-day activities of agricultural production.
   AGRICULTURAL INTERPRETATION. Relating to, to act or concerning an instance
to interpret, (to explain) agriculture as defined in Article 8.
   AGRICULTURAL OPERATION. A facility consisting of real or personal property
used for the production of crops including fruit and vegetable production, tree
farming, livestock, poultry, dairy products or poultry products, but not a
facility primarily engaged in processing agricultural products. AGRICULTURAL
OPERATION shall also include certain farm activities and uses as follows:
chemical and fertilizer spraying, farm machinery noise, extended hours of
operation, manure collection, disposal, spreading or storing, open storage of
machinery, feedlots, odors produced from farm animals, crops or products used
in farming.
   AGRICULTURALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business primarily engaged in processing
and packaging of agricultural products; including farm equipment service and
repair, but not sales of farm equipment.
   AIRPORT or HELIPORT. Any land or structure which is used or intended for use
for the landing and take-off of aircraft for commercial purposes and any such
appurtenant land or structure used or intended for use for port buildings or
other port structures or rights-of-way. The Waseca Municipal Airport located in
the east half of Section 14, Township 107 North, Range 23, West of the 5th
Principal Meridian, Waseca, Minnesota.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area which elevation is established to be 1,126 feet above sea
level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport; and any use of land which is hazardous to
person or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   ALTERATIONS. Any enlargement; addition; relocation; change in a sign, by
painting or otherwise; or other change in a facility, but excluding painting,
except as provided above for signs; ordinary maintenance for which no building
permit is required; and demolition or removal.
   ANIMAL CLINIC. See VETERINARY CLINIC.
   ANIMAL FEEDLOT (FEEDLOT). A lot or building or combination of lots and
buildings intended for the confined feeding, breeding, raising or holding of
animals and specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may
accumulate, or where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative
cover cannot be maintained within the enclosure. For purposes of these parts,
open lots used for the feeding and rearing of poultry shall be considered to be
ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. Pastures, animal mortality composting facility and rendering
pick-up structures shall not be considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS under these parts.
   ANIMAL MANURE. Poultry, livestock or other animal excreta or mixture with
feed, bedding, water or other materials.
   ANIMAL UNIT (A.U.). A unit of measure used to compare differences in the
production of animal manure that employs as a standard the amount of manure
produced on a regular basis by a slaughter steer or heifer.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple family dwelling designed
for, intended for, or used as a residence for one family or individual and
equipped with cooking facilities.
   APO. The administrative penalty order issued pursuant to M.S. §§ 103F.48,
Subd. 7 and 103B.101, Subd. 12a, as they may be amended from time to time.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE (SUBSURFACE SANITARY TREATMENT SYSTEM OR SSTS). An
employee or agent of the County Public Health Services Department.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A retail place of business engaged primarily in
the sale of motor fuels but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services
generally associated with the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles.
These may include sale of petroleum products, sale and servicing of tires,
batteries, automobile accessories and replacement items, washing and
lubrication services and the performance of automotive maintenance and repair.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% change of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. BASE FLOOD is synonymous with the term “regional flood” used in
Minnesota Rules, Part 6120.5000.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood, regional flood,
or 1% annual chance flood. The term BASE FLOOD ELEVATION is used in the flood
insurance study.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level. A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story
if it has one-half or more of its height above the highest level of the
adjoining ground and/or if it is intended to be used for dwelling or business
purposes.
   BEDROOM. Any room or unfinished area within a dwelling that might reasonably
be used as a sleeping room.
   BILLBOARD (SIGN-ADVERTISING). A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, activity or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold
or offered upon the premises where such a sign is located.
   BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff or embankment meeting the
following criteria:
      (1)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
      (2)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody;
      (3)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level; and
      (4)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25 feet
or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater, except
that an area with an average slope of less than 18% over a distance of at least
50 feet shall not be considered part of the bluff.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top of a
bluff.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. A quasi-judicial body with powers and duties as defined
in the County Unified Development Code and M.S. § 394.27, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   BOARD OF COUNTY COMMISSIONERS. Waseca County Board of Commissioners.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building, other than a hotel or apartment building, where
for compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, lodging and/or
meals are provided for three or more persons, exclusive of the resident family
and is not subject to group care licensing requirements of the State Department
of Health.
   BOARDING STABLE. An establishment where horses are boarded and cared for,
and where horses may be hired for riding.
   BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats,
boating equipment and recreational equipment.
   BOND. Any form of security including cash deposit, surety bond, collateral,
property or instrument of credit in an amount and form satisfactory to the
County Board. All BONDS shall be approved by the County Board whenever the bond
is required by these regulations.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb or curb
line and the property line.
   BREWERY. A facility that produces for sale beer, ale or other beverages made
from malt by fermentation and containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume.
   BUFFER. Areas or strips of land maintained in permanent vegetation designed
for screening and/or to intercept pollutants from both surface and groundwater,
which includes trees, shrubs and/or grasses.
   BUFFER (IN BUFFER CODE). The meaning provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 1(c),
as it may be amended from time to time.
   BUFFER PROTECTION MAP. The meaning provided in M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 1(d),
as it may be amended from time to time and which are available on the
Department of Natural Resources website.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls for the
housing or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels. When any portion thereof
is completely separated from every other portion thereof by a division wall
without openings, then each such portion shall be deemed to be a separate
BUILDING.
   BUILDING, AGRICULTURAL. All buildings, other than dwellings, which are
incidental to a farming operation.
   BUILDING, “EARTH SHELTERED”. Any building constructed so that more than 50%
of the exterior surface area of the building, excluding garages or other
accessory buildings, is covered with earth and the local building code
standards are satisfied. Partially completed buildings shall not be considered
EARTH SHELTERED.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining ground
level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level, whichever is
lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height of the highest
gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
   BUILDING, LOCAL GOVERNMENTAL (also LOCAL GOVERNMENT FACILITY). A structure
owned and operated by a local governmental agency for the purpose of performing
a service of government or conducting a public service.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line nearest the street and parallel to property
boundary lines establishing the minimum open space to be provided between
buildings and specified structures, street lines, property lines or the
ordinary high water level and beyond which a structure may not extend.
   BUSBAR. The starting point of the electric transmission system.
   BUSINESS. A land use identified in the table of allowed and conditional uses
within the categories of commercial recreation; commercial sales and service;
other uses; and accessory uses and structures.
   BWSR. The Board of Water and Soil Resources.
   CAMPGROUND. Any area, whether privately or publicly owned, used on a daily,
nightly, weekly or longer basis, for the accommodation of five or more units,
consisting of tents, travel trailers, pick-up coaches, motor homes or camping
trailers and whether use of such accommodation is granted free of charge or for
compensation; provided, that nothing in this definition shall be construed to
include children’s camps, industrial camps, migrant labor camps, as defined in
the state statutes and State Board of Health regulations, and also shall not
include United States forest service camps, state wildlife management areas or
state owned public access areas which are restricted in use to picnicking and
boat landing.
   CAMP, ORGANIZED GROUP. Land or premises containing structures designed to be
used for organized camping. The structures include bunk houses, tent platforms,
mess halls and cooking facilities, and playfields.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant. Harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES. A retail location and the retail location(s) of
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   CEMETERY. Land used or dedicated to the burial of the human dead, including
mausoleums and maintenance facilities but excluding crematories.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE, FEEDLOT. A document from the Agency or the County
Feedlot Officer to the owner/operator of an animal feedlot stating that the
feedlot meets Agency requirements. Certificates of compliance or feedlot
permits shall be deemed county and state feedlot permits for the purposes of
this ordinance. The use of this document was discontinued on October 23, 2000
by the MPCA and is no longer valid.
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE, SSTS. A document from a licensed sewage treatment
inspector fully licensed by the state or a qualified employee, provided to the
owner of property on which a dwelling is located which is required to have an
individual sewage treatment system and to the Department of Public Health,
certifying that the individual sewage treatment system is not a failing system
nor an imminent threat to public health or safety, and, for new construction
and replacement, is constructed in compliance with Minnesota Rules, Chapter
7080, as amended.
   CHANGE IN (THE) OPERATION. An increase beyond the permitted maximum number
of animal units, an increase in the number of animal units which are confined
at an unpermitted animal feedlot requiring a construction investment, or a
change in the construction or operation of an animal feedlot that would affect
the storage, handling, utilization or disposal of animal manure.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
   CLASS V INJECTION WELL. A shallow well used to place a variety of fluids
directly below the land surface, which includes a domestic SSTS serving more
than 20 people. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and delegated state
groundwater programs permit these wells to inject wastes below the ground
surface provided they meet certain requirements and do not endanger underground
sources of drinking water. Class V motor vehicle waste disposal wells and
large-capacity cesspools are specifically prohibited (see 40 C.F.R. parts 144
and 146).
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those who are in need of medical or surgical
attention, but who are not provided with board or room nor kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues, and are organized for some common purpose, but not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
   CLUSTER SYSTEM. A SSTS under some form of common ownership that collects
wastewater from three or more dwellings or buildings and conveys it to a
treatment and dispersal system located on an acceptable site near the dwellings
or buildings.
   COFFEE SHOP. An informal restaurant primarily offering, coffee, tea and
other beverages, and where light refreshments and limited menu meals may also
be sold.
   COLD STORAGE PLANT. A building used for the refrigeration of food or other
perishable items for commercial purposes.
   CO-LOCATE COMMUNICATION or CELL TOWER. To place one or more communication or
cellular telephone towers on a single parcel of land or parcel of record.
   COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Speech advertising a business, profession, commodity,
service or entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental or trade of products, goods and services.
   COMMISSIONER.
      (1)   In reference to regulating feedlots, COMMISSIONER or “Director”
means the Commissioner of the State Pollution Control Agency;
      (2)   In reference to protecting natural resources, the State
Commissioner of Natural Resources; or
      (3)   In reference to the municipal airport, COMMISSIONER means the
Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Transportation.
   COMMUNICATION TOWER. A tower measuring 70 to 150 feet or less in height for
radio, television or telephone communications.
   COMMUNITY CENTER. A building to be used as a place of meeting, recreation or
social activity and not operated for profit unless as an accessory to a group
care facility.
   COMMUNITY WATER SYSTEM. A source of water and/or water distribution system
serving two or more building lots with the design and construction of such
systems as approved by the county and state.
   COMPLIANCE INSPECTION. Any evaluation, investigation, inspection or other
such process to make conclusions, recommendations or statements regarding an
individual sewage treatment system to reasonably assure an individual sewage
treatment system is in compliance as specified in Minnesota Rules, Chapter
7080.
   COMPOST (ANIMAL MORTALITY). A humus-like product derived from the control
microbial degradation of organic material. Only animal mortality that is being
processed in accordance with §
6.06(H)(2)(e) of this ordinance and Minnesota Rules, Part 1721.0740 is compost.
   COMPOST (MANURE). A humus-like product derived from the controlled microbial
degradation of organic material. Only manure that has completed composting
process as described in Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2150 subpart 2 is compost.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Unless otherwise stated, is the general plan for land
use, transportation, natural resources and community facilities prepared and
maintained by the Planning Commission.
   CONCENTRATED ANIMAL FEEDING OPERATION (CAFO). An animal feedlot meeting the
definition of a CAFO in 40 C.F.R. § 122.23.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development as defined by ordinance that
would not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate
restrictions as provided by official controls upon a finding that certain
conditions as detailed in this ordinance exist, the use or development conforms
to the comprehensive land use plan of the community and the use is compatible
with the existing neighborhood.
   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of single units in a multi-unit structure with
common areas and facilities.
   CONFORMING USE. In relation to the Airport Overlay District, CONFORMING USE
is any structure, tree, or object of natural growth, or use of land that
complies with all the applicable provisions of this ordinance or any amendment
to this ordinance.
   CONSERVATION EASEMENT. A voluntary agreement negotiated between a landowner
and a public agency or charitable conservation organization in which the
landowner agrees to place specific restrictions on the use and development of
his or her property.
   CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION. An approach to land subdivision which is
characterized by common open space and clustered lots.
   CONSTRUCTION SHORT FORM PERMIT. A permit issued for an animal feedlot or
manure storage area according to Minnesota Rules, Parts 7020.0505 and
7020.0535.
   CONTRACTOR. An individual or company employed in the building trade or
related businesses. CONTRACTORS include, but are not limited to, a general
contractor, excavation contractor, landscaping or lawn care contractor,
building contractor, to include electric, plumbing and heating contractor,
demolition contractor, subsurface sewer treatment system installer or similar.
   CONTRACTOR’S YARD. An establishment used for the outdoor repair, maintenance
or storage of a contractor’s vehicles, equipment or materials. A yard and/or
building used by a general contractor, excavation contractor, landscaping or
lawn care contractor, building contractor, to include electric, plumbing and
heating contractor, demolition contractor, subsurface sewer treatment system
installer or similar, where vehicles, equipment and materials are stored when
not being used on a job site or where a contractor performs maintenance and
repair on their own equipment. For the purposes of this definition, a
CONTRACTOR'S YARD does not include assembly or manufacturing of products, or
wholesale or retail sales or a temporary job construction site.
   CONVENTION CENTER. A facility designed to accommodate 300 or more persons
and used for conventions, conferences, seminars, product displays, social
functions, entertainment events and food and beverage preparation and service
for on-premise consumption.
   CONVENIENCE GAS AND GOODS SALES. A place where gasoline, motor oil,
lubricants or other minor accessories are retailed directly to the public on
the premises in combination with the retailing of items typically found in a
convenience market or supermarket.
   CORRECTIVE ACTION. Any action required by any Department to ensure
compliance or conformance with this ordinance and state regulations.
   CORRECTIVE OR PROTECTIVE MEASURE. A practice, structure, condition or
combination thereof, which prevents or reduces the discharge of pollutants from
an animal feedlot to a level in conformity with Agency rules.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A club with recreational facilities for members, their
families and invited guests.
   COUNTY. Waseca County.
   COUNTY BOARD. Includes the words “Board”, “County Commissioners”, the “Board
of County Commissioners” or any other word or words meaning the “Waseca County
Board of Commissioners”.
   COUNTY ENGINEER. The Waseca County Engineer.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A minor street or road with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   CULTIVATION FARMING. Farming practices that disturb root or soil structure
or that impair the viability of perennial vegetation to cutting or harvesting
near the soil surface.
   DANCE HALL. An establishment in which more than 10% of the total floor is
designed or used as a dance floor, or where an admission fee is directly
collected, or some other form of compensation is obtained for dancing.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services
to provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   DAYCARE CENTER. A facility that provides for non-medical care to children
under 18 years of age in need of personal services, supervision or assistance
on a less than 24-hour per day basis.
   DAYCARE, FAMILY. A single-family, owner-occupied dwelling or unit where less
than 24-hour per day, non-medical care and supervision is provided for six or
fewer unrelated individuals, which does not exceed the limitation of a single-
family unit.
   DAYCARE, GROUP FAMILY. A single-family, owner-occupied dwelling or unit
where less than 24-hour per day, non-medical care and supervision is provided
for seven to 12 unrelated individuals.
   DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principle use or site and at any point extending more than three feet above
ground.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units permitted per net acre of land.
   DESIGN FLOW. The daily volume of wastewater for which an SSTS is designed to
treat and discharge.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indication among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-
way, blocks, easements and lots.
   DEVELOPMENT. In the Floodplain Overlay District, DEVELOPMENT means any man-
made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including, but not limited
to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment and materials.
   DISCHARGE. The addition of a pollutant to waters of the state, including a
release of animal manure, manure-contaminated runoff or process wastewater from
an animal feedlot, a manure storage area or an animal manure land application
site by leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, dumping, escaping,
seeping, leaching or any other means. DISCHARGE includes both point and
nonpoint source discharges.
   DISTILLERY. A facility that produces ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl,
spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits,
including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, for nonindustrial use.
   DISTRICT. Refers to the zoning districts identified in the Waseca County
Unified Development Code.
   DITCH. An earthen structure used to convey water to another area.
   DOMESTIC FERTILIZER.
      (1)   Animal manure that is put on or injected into the soil to improve
the quality or quantity of plant growth; or
      (2)   Animal manure that is used as compost, soil conditioners, or
specialized plant beds.
   DRAINAGE AUTHORITY. The meaning provided in M.S. § 103E.005, Subd. 9, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   DRIVING RANGE. An area equipped with distance markers, clubs, balls and tees
for practicing golf drives and putting, but excludes miniature golf courses.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family
units, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms in a dwelling designed for occupancy by one
family for living purposes and having its own permanently installed cooking and
sanitary facilities and also includes rental or timeshare accommodations such
as motel, hotel and resort rooms and cabins.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A dwelling designed for or occupied by three or more
families living independently of each other; the term includes townhouses as
defined herein.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED. A dwelling containing accommodations for
and occupied by one family that does not share a common wall with another
dwelling.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A dwelling designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a specified part of the
property by the public, a corporation or persons for specific purposes such as
constructing and maintaining drives, utilities, including, but not limited to,
wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines,
telephone lines, storm sewers or storm drainageways and gas lines.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER SIGNS. Signs whose alphabetic, pictographic or
symbolic informational content can be changed or altered on a fixed display
surface composed of electrically illuminated or mechanically driven changeable
segments. ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTERS include two types:
      (1)   COMPUTER CONTROLLED VARIABLE MESSAGE CENTER SIGNS. Signs whose
informational content can be changed or altered by means of computer-driven
electronic impulses; and
      (2)   FIXED MESSAGE ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS. Signs whose basic
informational content has been pre-programmed to include only certain types of
information projection, such as time, temperature and date.
   ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT WORKSHEET (EAW). A brief document, which is
designed to set out the basic facts necessary to determine if an environmental
impact statement is required for a proposed project.
   ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT (EIS). A thorough study of a project with
potential for significant environmental impacts, including evaluation of
alternatives and mitigation.
   ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY BOARD (EQB). The Minnesota Environmental Quality Board
(EQB) is responsible for the EAW and EIS program. The EQB consists of the
commissioners from various state government units and several appointed citizen
members. The EQB is separate from the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
(MPCA).
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL PLAN (ESC). An ESC is a plan which includes a
set of best management practices or equivalent measures designed to control
surface runoff and erosion and to retain sediment on a particular site during
the period in which pre-construction and construction related land
disturbances, fills and soil storage occur, and before final improvements are
completed.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance,
by public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies, of
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipe, conduits, cables, fire
alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and other similar
equipment and accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or governmental
agencies or for the public health, safety, morals and general welfare, but not
including buildings.
   ESTABLISHED DATE OF OPERATION. For the purposes of this section, the
established date of operation shall be the date on which the agricultural
operation commenced.
   ESTABLISHED RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IN A BUILT UP URBAN AREA (ERN-BUUA). An
area which, if it existed on or before January 1, 1978, shall be considered a
conforming use that shall not be prohibited except as provided § 6.24(E)(2)(e),
Exemptions – Established Residential Neighborhoods.
   ETHYL ALCOHOL. A colorless, flammable liquid produced by fermentation of
sugars (CH3 CH 2 OH).
   EVENT. A company of persons gathered together at any location at any single
time for any purpose.
   EVENT CENTER/INDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. A facility located on land of five
acres or larger that provides for any type of social gathering and consisting
of multipurpose meeting and/or recreational facilities, typically consisting of
one or more meeting or multipurpose rooms and may include a warming kitchen,
that are available for use by various groups of less than 200 persons for such
activities as indoor sports, such as racket ball, tennis or basketball,
meetings, parties, weddings, receptions, and dances. Event center activities
include such activities as graduations, anniversary parties, and holiday
gatherings.
   EXCAVATIONS. Any artificial excavation of the earth, within the county, dug,
excavated or made by the removal from the natural surface of the earth of sod,
soil, sand, gravel, stone or other matter or made by tunneling or breaking or
undermining the surface of the earth.
   EXHIBIT HALL. A facility designed to accommodate 300 or more persons and
used for conventions, conferences, seminars, product displays, social functions
and entertainment events.
   EXPANSION. In reference to regulating feedlots, any change in a feedlot
operation that results in an increase in animal units, or enlargement or
addition of livestock buildings or manure storage structures.
   FACILITY. A building or structure, often with accessory buildings or
structures, that serve an expressed purpose.
   FAILURE TO PROTECT GROUNDWATER. At a minimum, a SSTS that does not protect
groundwater is considered to be a SSTS with less than the required vertical
separation distance, described in Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.1500 Subp. 4 D and
E; and a system not abandoned in accordance with part 7080.2500. The
determination of the threat to groundwater for other conditions must be made by
a qualified employee or an individual licensed pursuant to §
5.02(P) of this ordinance.
   FALL ZONE. The area, defined as the furthest distance from the tower base,
in which a guyed tower will collapse in the event of a structural failure. This
area is less than the total height of the structure.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage or adoption
living together as a single housekeeping unit or a group of not more than four
persons not so related maintaining a common household, as distinguished from a
group occupying a boarding house, group home, lodging house, hotel, motel,
club, fraternity or sorority house.
   FARM. A tract of land 35 acres or more in size, which is principally used
for agricultural activities such as the production for sale of livestock, dairy
animals, dairy products, poultry and poultry products, fur bearing animals,
nursery stock, fruit, vegetables, forage, grains and bees. Such FARM may
include farm dwellings and accessory buildings and structures necessary to the
operation of the FARM. Slough, wasteland and woodland contiguous to or
surrounded by agricultural land shall be considered agricultural in use if
under the same ownership and management.
   FARM ENTERPRISE. Commercial, educational, recreational or entertainment
activities that are accessory to and operated in conjunction with agricultural
uses. FARM ENTERPRISES include pick-your-own operations, processing and retail
sales of farm products, farm tours, petting zoos, corn mazes, farm stays,
retreat centers, horse shows and special events held in farm buildings or
outdoors. This definition is distinct from “seasonal produce stand”, which is a
more limited use.
   FARM WINERY. A winery operated by the owner of a state farm and producing
table, sparkling or fortified wines from grapes, grape juice, other fruit bases
or honey with a majority of the ingredients grown or produced in the state.
   FARMING. The business of cultivating land or employing it for the purposes
of husbandry; the cultivation and fertilization of the soil as well as caring
for and harvesting the crops.
   FARMLAND. Any land used in conjunction with a farming operation.
   FARMLAND, NON-PRODUCTIVE. Land that cannot be farmed due to, but not limited
to, the following conditions: excessive slope, wooded area, high water table,
adverse topographical conditions and the like.
   FARMLAND, PRODUCTIVE. Land on which a profitable crop can be grown and
having a slope, soil and water table suitable for crop production. Land which
is of soil classifications of Class I-II-III soils as rated in the “Soil
Survey-Waseca County” by the United States Department of Agriculture, Soil
Conservation Service shall be considered to be productive farmland.
   FARMSTEAD. The area which includes the farm dwelling and other buildings in
close proximity to the farm dwelling for management, storage, livestock and the
like for a farming operation.
   FEEDER LINE. Power lines that transport electrical power from one or more
wind turbines to the point of interconnection with a high voltage transmission
line.
   FEEDLOT (NEW). A feedlot constructed and operated at a site where no feedlot
existed previously or where a pre-existing feedlot has been abandoned or unused
for a period of five years.
   FEEDLOT OFFICER. The county employee who is knowledgeable in agriculture,
designated by the County Board to receive and process feedlot permits and
applications, and identified by the MPCA as the Feedlot Pollution Control
Officer.
   FEEDLOT OPERATOR. An individual, corporation, group of individuals,
partnership, joint venture, owner or any other business entity having charge or
control of one or more livestock feedlots, poultry lots or other animal lots.
   FEEDLOT RUNOFF. The movement of water from a feedlot, either in the form of
rainfall, snow, or as water from a waterway, ditch and the like, passing
through a feedlot, carrying particles of manure as well as soil into a body of
water and thereby constituting a potential pollution hazard.
   FISH HATCHERY. An establishment or premises used for the cultivation of fish
or other aquatic or marine life for commercial, recreational or educational
purposes.
   FLEA MARKET. An outdoor commercial activity, not including shopping centers
or individual retail operations, or sales conducted by a non-profit or
charitable organization, that is open to the general public and used for the
sale of merchandise by five vendors or more.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administrator has delineated both the special flood hazard areas and
the risk premium zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made
available digitally is called a “Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM)”.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY (FIS). The study referenced in Section 3.2, which is
an examination, evaluation, and determination of flood hazards, and if
appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an examination, evaluation,
and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or flood-related erosion
hazards.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
   FLOODPLAIN. The channel or beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland,
lake or watercourse, which have been, or hereafter may be covered by the
regional flood. FLOODPLAIN areas within the county shall encompass all areas
designated as Zone A on the flood insurance rate map.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural and non-structural additions,
changes, or adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding,
primarily for the reduction or elimination of flood damages.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building measured from the exterior walls, including basements and attached
accessory buildings.
   FOREST PRESERVE, NATURE PRESERVE. Areas intended to remain in a
predominately natural or undeveloped state to provide resource protection and
possible opportunities for passive recreation and environmental education for
present and future generations.
   FORESTRY. The use and management including logging, of a forest, woodland or
plantation and related research and educational activities, including the
construction, alteration or maintenance of wood roads, skidways, landings and
fences.
   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street between the
nearest intersecting street or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway or
other similar barrier.
   GAME ARCADE. Any commercial building in which there are more than three
amusement game machines on the premise which are available to the public. An
ARCADE may contain commercial recreational machines or games other than
amusement game machines.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed for or used for the storage
of motor driven vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to
which it is accessory, and in which no business service or industry is
conducted.
   GARAGE, REPAIR. A building or space for the maintenance of vehicles but not
including auto wrecking or junk yards.
   GARAGE, TRUCK. A building which is used or intended to be used for the
storage of motor trucks, truck trailers, tractors and commercial vehicles
exceeding one and one-half tons capacity.
   GIS. Geographic information systems; land use and natural resource mapping
technology.
   GO-CART TRACK. A course designed for the operation of open-wheeled motorized
vehicles with an engine displacement of no greater than 100cc.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land laid out with at least nine holes for playing a
game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways and hazards; may include
a clubhouse and shelters as accessory uses.
   GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE. A theme-oriented recreational facility, typically
comprised of nine or 18 putting greens, each with a cup or a hole where patrons
pay to play.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Waseca Board of County Commissioners.
   GOVERNMENTAL AGENCY, LOCAL. Any political subdivision, regional governmental
unit, district, municipal or public corporation, including cities, towns and
counties and their legislative bodies.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. A sign that is erected or maintained by a governmental
unit.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street or other public way, specified in
percentage terms.
   GRAIN ELEVATORS/STORAGE STRUCTURES. Any structure that is used for storage
and does not have a door or other entranceway into a dwelling unit and that
does not have water fixtures within its confines, the use of which is limited
solely to storage of inanimate objects.
   GREENHOUSE, NURSERY, TREE FARM. Land, buildings, structures or combinations
thereof for the storage, cultivation and transporting of live trees, shrubs or
plants, a portion of which are offered for retail sale on the premises, and
including products used for gardening and landscaping.
   GREENHOUSE (COMMERCIAL), GARDEN STORE. Land, buildings, structures or
combinations thereof for the storage, cultivation and transporting of live
trees, shrubs or plants, a portion of which are offered for retail sale on the
premises, and including products used for gardening and landscaping.
   GROUNDWATER. Water contained below the surface of the earth in a saturated
zone.
   GROUP CARE FACILITY. A home designed and licensed to provide care for
persons requiring or receiving personal care or custodial care complying with
the standards established by the State Board of Health.
   GROUP HOME. A home designed and licensed to provide care for persons
requiring or receiving personal care or custodial care complying with the
standards established by the State Board of Health.
   GUEST COTTAGE. A structure used as a dwelling unit that may contain sleeping
spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to those provided in the
primary dwelling unit on a lot.
   HARDSHIP. As used in connection with the granting of a variance means the
property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if used under the
conditions allowed by the official controls; the plight of the landowner is due
to circumstances unique to the property and not created by the landowner; and
the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the
locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a HARDSHIP if
reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of this ordinance. No
variance shall be granted that would allow any use that is prohibited in the
zoning district in which the subject property is located.
   HEALTH CLUB. A building or portion of a building designed and equipped for
the conduct of sports, exercise, leisure time activities or other customary
recreational activities.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in the Airport Overlay District standards and shown on the airport zoning
map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   HIGH-VOLTAGE TRANSMISSION LINE. A conductor of electric energy and
associated facilities designed for and capable of operation at a nominal
voltage of 100 kilovolts or more and is greater than 1,500 feet in length.
   HIGHWAY. Any public road, thoroughfare or vehicular right-of-way with a
federal, state or county numerical route designation.
   HIGHWAY MAINTENANCE SHOP. A government facility or temporary construction
area used for the storage of equipment and materials related to maintaining or
constructing public highways and rights-of-way.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation of a service character which is clearly
secondary to the main use of the premises as a dwelling place and which does
not change the character thereof or have any exterior evidence of such
secondary use.
   HOUSING, TEMPORARY WORKER. Any living quarters permanently maintained for
employees to occupy on a seasonal basis for not more than six months per year.
   HUNTING CLUB. Buildings and facilities owned and operated by a corporation,
association or persons dedicated to recreational hunting.
   HUNTING PRESERVE. Any commercial venture on private property where game
animals are hunted, both in and out of designated hunting seasons, but not
including the renting of land by its owner to a private person or party for the
exclusive use of the land for hunting during a designated hunting season. A
HUNTING PRESERVE does not include a hunting lodge or other residential use.
   HUNTING SHACK. A primitive structure with no utilities or indoor plumbing
utilized for short- term habitation and enjoyment of the natural environment.
   IMMINENT THREAT TO PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY. At a minimum a SSTS with a
discharge of sewage or sewage effluent to the ground surface, drainage systems,
ditches or stormwater drains or directly to surface water; SSTS that cause a
reoccurring sewage backup into a dwelling or other establishment; SSTS with
electrical hazards; a seepage pit, cesspool, drywell, leaching pit or other
pit; or sewage tanks with unsecured, damaged or weak maintenance access covers.
The determination of protectiveness for other conditions must be made by a
qualified employee or a SSTS inspection business licensed pursuant to Article 5
hereof.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any on-site sewage system, water system, drainage system,
streets, fence, gate, wall, landscaping or other facility which constitutes a
physical betterment to real property.
   INCORPORATED. In reference to regulating feedlots, when manure is surface
applied and mixed into the soil within 24 hours of application.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
   INDUSTRY. A land use identified in the Table of Allowed and Conditional Uses
within the categories of Agricultural, Natural Resources and Related and
Industrial.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Sewage containing waste from activities other than
sanitary waste from industrial activities including, but not limited to, the
following uses defined under the Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) Codes
established by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget.
SIC Code(s) Industry Category
SIC Code(s) Industry Category
753-7549    Automotive Repairs and Services
72,317,241  Beauty Shops, Barber Shops
7211-7219   Laundry Cleaning and Garment Services
4011-4581   Transportation (Maintenance only)
8062-8069   Hospitals
2000-3999   Manufacturing
2000-2099   Food Products
2100-2199   Tobacco Products
2400-2499   Lumber and Wood Products, except Furniture
2500-2599   Furniture and Fixtures
2600-2699   Paper and Allied Products
2700-2799   Printing, Publishing and Allied Industries
2800-2899   Chemicals and Allied Products
2900-2999   Petroleum Refining and Related Industries
3000-3099   Rubber and Miscellaneous Plastics
3100-3199   Leather Tanning and Finishing
3200-3299   Stone, Clay, Glass and Concrete Products
3300-3399   Primary Metal Industries
3400-3499   Fabricated Metal Products (except machinery, and transportation
            equipment)
3500-3599   Industrial and Commercial Machinery and Computer Equipment
3700-3799   Transportation Equipment
3800-3899   Measuring, Analyzing, and Controlling Instruments; Photographic,
            Medical and Optical Goods; Watches and Clocks
3900-3999   Miscellaneous Manufacturing Industries
 
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY. A facility, not located on the
same parcel where the wastewater is generated, which is used to remove from
industrial process wastewater, any harmful chemicals, compounds, nutrients,
organics, solids or other materials prior to being transported off-site for
reuse or discharged into a stream or into the soil.
   INJECTED. When manure is mechanically implanted or tilled into the soil
during the manure application.
   INSPECTOR, SSTS. An individual qualified to review proposed plans and
inspect SSTS and who meets the licensure and registration requirements of the
State Pollution Control Agency.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   INTERIM PERMIT. A permit issued for a feedlot by the Agency or the County
Feedlot Officer, which expires no longer than 24 months from the date of
issuance, that identifies the necessary corrective measures to abate potential
pollution hazards and is in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Parts 7020.0505
and 7020.0535.
   INTERMITTENT STREAMS. Intermittent streams are those runoff channels with
definable banks deep enough to restrict ordinary tillage practices from
crossing the channel. These channels provide for water flow to perennial
streams, lakes or wetlands during snowmelt or rainfall events.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premises where three or more dogs, cats or
combination of both over four months of age are boarded, bred or offered for
sale.
   LANDFILL, SANITARY. A state licensed site used for disposing of solid
wastes, including organic materials such as garbage in an excavation and
covered daily with earth in accordance with County Board of Health regulations
and applicable state regulations.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off or
taxiing of aircraft.
   LANDOWNER (IN BUFFER CODE). The holder of the fee title, the holder’s agents
or assigns, any lessee, licensee, or operator of the real property and includes
all land occupiers as defined by M.S. § 103F.401, Subd. 7, as it may be amended
from time to time or any other party conducting farming activities on or
exercising control over the real property.
   LAUNDRY. A business that provides a service to wash, dry or dry clean
clothing or other fabrics for patrons.
   LAUNDROMAT. A facility where patrons wash, dry or dry clean clothing or
other fabrics in machines operated by the patron.
   LIBRARY. A public facility for the use, but not the sale, of literary,
musical, artistic or reference materials.
   LICENSED RESIDENTIAL PROGRAM. Shall have the meaning given in M.S. §
245A.02, Subdivision 14, as it may be amended from time to time, or successor
statutes.
   LIQUOR LICENSE. Any of the following licenses issued or approved by the
county pursuant to M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   On-sale or off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license;
      (2)   On-sale or off-sale intoxicating liquor license;
      (3)   On-sale wine license; or
      (4)   Consumption and display permit (set-ups).
   LICENSED ENGINEER. A person licensed as a professional engineer by the
state.
   LIVESTOCK SALES BARN. A commercial establishment where livestock is
collected for sale or auctioning.
   LIVING CENTER, ASSISTED. A home designed and licensed to provide care for
the aged or infirmed persons requiring or receiving personal care or custodial
care complying with the standards established by the State Board of Health.
   LOCAL WATER MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY (IN BUFFER CODE). The meaning provided in
M.S. § 103F.48, Subd. 1(g), as it may be amended from time to time.
   LOT. A parcel, piece or portion of land abutting a private or public street,
designated by metes and bounds, registered land survey, auditor’s plat or other
means and separated from other parcels or portions by the description for the
purpose of sale, lease or separation thereof.
   LOT, AREA. The area located within the lot lines and not including that
portion of the platted lot which is presently being used as or dedicated for
street or public right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The total allowable amount of lot area, expressed as a
percentage, which may be covered by a principal building and its accessory
structures, excluding projecting roof eaves.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting streets
as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, FRONTAGE. See LOT LINE, FRONT.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot; including through lots.
   LOT LINE. The line bounding a lot except that where any portion of a lot
extends into the public right-of-way or a proposed public right-of-way, the
line of such public right-of-way shall be the lot line.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street and in the case of a corner lot it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street except that a corner lot in a nonresidential area
shall be deemed to have frontage on both sides.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line,
except that where the rear lot line is less than ten feet in length or
irregularly shaped, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to and most distant from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A platted lot or metes and bounds parcel which has been
recorded in the office of the County Register of Deeds prior to the effective
date of this ordinance.
   LOT, PANHANDLE. A lot that does not front on a street and has access through
a narrow strip of land or an easement. The handle or access of a PANHANDLE LOT
is defined as “that portion of a panhandle lot that is 50 feet or less in
width”.
   LOT, THROUGH. Any lot other than a corner lot which abuts more than one
street
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured parallel to the front line of the lot at the setback line.
   LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE. In the Airport Overlay District standard,
a single-family or two-family home.
   LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL LOT. In the Airport Overlay District standard, a
single lot located in an area which is zoned for single-family or two-family
residences and in which the predominant land use is such type of residences.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. As defined under M.S. § 342.01, Subd. 50.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 CFR § 60.3.
   LUMBER YARD. An area used for the storage, distribution and sale of finished
or rough-cut lumber and lumber products, but not the manufacture or processing
of lumber products.
   MALFUNCTION. The partial or complete loss of function of a SSTS component,
which requires a corrective action to restore its intended function.
   MALT LIQUOR. Any beer, ale or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume.
   MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan that describes necessary and recommended routine
operational and maintenance requirements, periodic examination, adjustment and
testing, and the frequency of each to ensure system performance meets the
treatment expectations, including a planned course of action to prevent an
illegal discharge.
   MANUFACTURE, FERTILIZER. A commercial operation for the processing or
production of chemicals or other manufactured additives for agricultural or
horticultural use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning and electrical systems contained therein. All MANUFACTURED HOMES
shall bear a state seal as verification of construction and inspection to ANSI
A119.1 standards during original construction (issued for manufactured homes
build between July 1, 1972 to June 14, 1976) or, for manufactured homes built
after that date a Federal Seal in accordance with HUD 24 C.F.R. part 3280,
Construction Standards. The term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include the term
“recreational vehicle.”
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which
three or more manufactured homes having a width of less than 20 feet are
harbored, either free of charge or for revenue purposes, and shall include any
building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or intended for use as
part of the equipment of such MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. The term MANUFACTURED
HOME PARK shall not be construed to include trailers, buildings, tents or other
structures temporarily maintained by any individual or company on premises
associated with a work project and used exclusively to house labor or other
personnel employed in such work project.
   MANUFACTURING, GENERAL. The processing and manufacturing of materials or
products predominantly from extracted or raw materials. These activities do not
necessitate the storage of large volumes of highly flammable, toxic matter or
explosive materials needed for the manufacturing process. These activities may
involve outdoor storage or processing and incidental storage, sales and
distribution of the products.
   MANUFACTURING, LIMITED. All uses which include the compounding, processing,
packaging, treatment, or assembly of predominantly previously prepared
materials and products into finished products. These uses will not generate
objectionable influences that extend beyond the lot on which the use is located
and include incidental storage, sales and distribution of the products.
   MANUFACTURING, NATURAL RESOURCE (ALSO: PROCESSING, NATURAL RESOURCE). All
uses that may be conducted in an enclosed area which include the compounding,
processing, packaging, treatment or assembly of predominantly natural
indigenous materials and products into products
   MANURE MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan which describes manure application and
utilization techniques.
   MANURE STORAGE AREA. An area associated with an animal feedlot where animal
manure or runoff containing animal manure is stored until it can be utilized as
domestic fertilizer or removed to a permitted animal manure disposal site.
Short-term and permanent stockpile sites and composting sites are MANURE
STORAGE AREAS. Animal manure packs or mounding within the animal feedlot that
are managed according to Minnesota Rules 7020.2000, subpart 3 shall not be
considered to be MANURE STORAGE AREAS.
   MANURE STORAGE STRUCTURE. A structure where feedlot runoff, manure effluent
or other diluted animal waste is stored or treated, including, but not limited
to, earthen manure storage basins, earthen lagoons and concrete or glass lined
storage.
   MANURE, LIQUID. Manure that contains less than 15% solid content.
   MANURE, SOLID. Manure which has at least a 15% solid content and contains
added fibrous material excluding mineral solids.
   MEMORIAL GARDEN. Land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including
mausoleums and maintenance facilities, but excluding crematories.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. In reference to regulating wind energy conversion
systems, meteorological towers are those towers which are erected primarily to
measure wind speed and directions plus other data relevant to siting WECS.
METEOROLOGICAL TOWERS do not include towers and equipment used by airports, the
State Department of Transportation, or other similar applications to monitor
weather conditions.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an easily identifiable point.
   MICRO-DISTILLERY. A facility that produces ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of
ethyl, spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin or other distilled spirits,
including all dilutions and mixtures thereof, for nonindustrial use not to
exceed 40,000 proof-gallons per calendar year.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat
not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to
time.
   MINING. The extraction of sand, gravel, rock, soil or other material from
the land in the amount of 500 cubic yards or more and the removal thereof from
the site without processing. It does not include:
      (1)   Excavations or extractions ancillary to the construction of any
permitted building, structure or within a road right-of-way; or
      (2)   Excavations for the sole purpose of impounding water for
agricultural, wildlife ponds, approved stormwater management ponds, erosion
control or public utility purposes.
   MINOR. Person(s) under 18 years of age.
   MINOR REPAIR. The repair or replacement of an existing damaged or faulty
component/part of an SSTS that will return the SSTS to its operable condition.
The repair shall not alter the original area, dimensions, design,
specifications or concept of the SSTS.
   MODIFICATION. Any changes in the feedlot operation that do not result in an
increase in animal numbers.
   MOTEL, HOTEL. A building or group of buildings used primarily for the
temporary residence of motorists or travelers.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by truck
is transferred and/or stored for movement.
   MOTORSPORTS, ORGANIZED. The operation of motorized vehicles on tracks or
trails (not including other vehicle racing, tracks or events).
   MUSEUM. An establishment for preserving or exhibiting artistic, historical,
scientific, natural or human-made objects of interest.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   MSTS. A “mid-sized subsurface sewage treatment system” under single
ownership that receives sewage from dwellings or other establishments having a
design flow of more than 5,000 gallons per day to a maximum of 10,000 gallons
per day.
   NAMEPLATE SIGN. A sign including postal identification numbers, whether
written or in number form, and, optionally, the name of the building or
building occupant.
   NATURAL RESOURCE MANUFACTURING, PROCESSING. All uses that may be conducted
in an enclosed area which include the compounding, processing, packaging,
treatment or assembly of predominantly natural indigenous materials and
products into products.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH. Dissemination of messages not classified as
commercial speech, which include, but are not limited to, messages concerning
political, religious, social, ideological, public service and informational
topics.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. Any lot which does not comply with the minimum lot size
requirements of the district in which it is located and which lawfully existed
on the effective date of this ordinance.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land or structures which does not conform to
the use restrictions for the district in which it is located and which lawfully
existed prior to the effective date of this ordinance or on the date the use
became nonconforming because of rezoning of the property or amendment to the
text of this ordinance. In the Airport Overlay District, a NONCONFORMING USE is
any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth or use of land which is
inconsistent with the provisions of the airport ordinance or an amendment
hereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned
straight in instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities
with only horizontal guidance, and for which no precision approach facilities
are planned or indicated on an approved planning document.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. Property not classified as residential property.
   NORMAL WATER LEVEL (IN BUFFER CODE). The level evidenced by the long-term
presence of surface water as indicated directly by hydrophytic plants or hydric
soils or indirectly determined via hydrological models or analysis.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED. Any notice from a governmental agency authorizing the
commencement of work or construction on a project.
   NOTICE OF NONCOMPLIANCE. A written document issued by the Public Health
Services or a business licensed by the MPCA for inspection notifying a system
owner that the owner’s on-site/cluster treatment system has been observed to be
noncompliant with the requirements of this ordinance.
   NOXIOUS MATTER. Material capable of causing injury to living organisms by
chemical reaction or capable of causing detrimental effects on the physical or
economic well being of individuals.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System/SDS State Disposal
System permit is a permit issued by the MPCA for the purpose of regulating the
discharge of pollutants from point sources, including concentrated animal
feedlot operations.
   NRCS. Natural Resources Conservation Service.
   NURSERY, TREE FARM. Land, buildings, structures or combinations thereof for
the storage, cultivation, sales and transporting of live trees, shrubs, or
plants.
   NURSING HOME. A home designed and licensed to provide care for the aged or
infirmed persons requiring or receiving personal care or custodial care
complying with the standards established by the State Board of Health.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, dredged spoil, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, stockpile of sand or gravel or
other material, or matter in, along, across or projecting into any channel,
watercourse, lakebed or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard or
change the direction of flow, either in itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by floodwater.
   OCCUPANCY. The placement into service or the authorization of the use of a
property or structure allowed under the Unified Development Code or authorized
by a county permit.
   OFFICE, PROFESSIONAL OR MEDICAL. Nonresidential space that is used primarily
by individuals and supporting staff involved in a recognized or certified
professional or medical occupational field.
   OFFICE, OTHER THAN PROFESSIONAL OR MEDICAL. Nonresidential space that is
used primarily for administrative, clerical or similar general office
activities.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management.
   OFFICE SERVICES. A retail establishment that provides materials and services
used to perform professional, medical and other office operations. These may
include duplicating services using photocopying, blueprint and offset printing
equipment, the collating and binding of booklets and reports and the sale of
office supplies.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the County Board, in accordance with
state statutes, showing streets, highways and parks and drainage, both existing
and proposed; the WASECA COUNTY ZONING MAP adopted by the County Board.
   OFF-SITE SIGN. A sign, including the supporting sign structure, that
contains commercial speech and advertises a business, commodity, or service
that is not necessarily located, offered, or performed on the premises on which
the sign is located; commonly known as a “billboard.”
   ON-SITE SIGN. A sign that contains commercial speech which pertains to the
use of the premises and/or property on which it is located.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease
or trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL (OHWL). The boundary of public waters and
wetlands, which shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level that
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL shall be the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   OTHER THAN UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to
be used by jet aircraft or aircraft of more than 12,500 pounds maximum gross
weight; or is 4,900 feet or more in length.
   OUTLOT. A “non-buildable” parcel or a parcel reserved for future development
or future subdivision.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, partnership, trust, corporation, company,
association, organization, syndicate or other legal entity having sufficient
property interest in a property to commence and maintain proceedings under this
ordinance, or the owner of record.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY. The placement of items in an exterior unenclosed place.
These items include, but are not limited to: merchandise for sale or rent;
materials awaiting servicing, processing or manufacturing; finished products of
a servicing, processing or manufacturing operation; equipment; portable storage
containers but excluding trash containers or garbage dumpsters that are
accessory to the main use; and automobiles, trucks, automobile trailers, semi-
trailers, intermodal cargo containers or other vehicles not used for more than
five days.
   PAINTBALL COURSE. An area that is designed and used for any game or event
that involves using guns or devices that shoot capsules of paint or dye.
   PARCEL. A piece of land having its own dimensions, as described by plat,
metes and bounds, or by reference to a section or partial section and recorded
with the County Recorder as the property of a person.
   PARKING SPACE. A surfaced and maintained area for the storage of one
standard automobile conforming to typical parking standards.
   PARKING FACILITY. All areas, spaces and structures designed, used, required
or intended to be used for the parking of more than three motor vehicles.
   PARK. Areas of land owned by a state, county, city or township and
designated for public recreational use.
   PARTIAL CONFINEMENT FEEDLOT BUILDING. Livestock inside a feedlot building
and outside a feedlot building in a feedlot confinement area.
   PASTURES. Areas where grass or other growing plants are used for grazing and
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative ground cover is
maintained during the growing season except in the immediate vicinity of
temporary supplemental feeding or water devices.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
   PERMANENT STOCKPILING SITE. A manure storage area where manure is stored or
processed that does not meet the requirements of Minnesota Rules, Part
7020.2125 subpart 2.
   PERMIT, (FEEDLOT) COUNTY. A document issued by the county animal feedlot
pollution control officer which may contain requirements, conditions or
schedules for achieving compliance with the discharge standards and
requirements for management of animal manure construction or operation of
animal holding areas or manure storage areas.
   PERMIT, (FEEDLOT) STATE. A document issued by the Agency which may contain
requirements, conditions or schedules for achieving compliance with the
discharge standards and requirements for management of animal manure
construction or operation of animal holding areas or manure storage areas.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, trust, corporation, company,
association, organization, joint stock association or political subdivision;
including any executor, administrator, trustee, receiver, assignee or other
similar representative thereof.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. In relation to adult-use cannabis, a
business, accommodation, refreshment, entertainment, recreation, or
transportation facility of any kind, whether licensed or not, whose goods,
services, facilities, privileges, advantages or accommodations are extended,
offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
   PLANNED. Only to those proposed future airport developments that are so
indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal Aviation
Administration, Minnesota Department of Transportation Office of Aeronautics
and the City of Waseca.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The County Planning Commission duly appointed by the
County Board with powers and duties as defined in the County Unified
Development Code.
   PLAT, FINAL. A drawing in final form, showing a proposed subdivision or site
plan containing all information and details required by state statute and by
County Board, and which if approved, may be duly filed with the County
Recorder.
   PLAT, PRELIMINARY. A drawing clearly marked “preliminary plat” showing the
salient features of a proposed subdivision.
   POLICE RELATED SERVICE CALLS. Requests for assistance made to any public law
enforcement agency from a neighboring resident, a victim of crime, a patron of
the establishment or the management of the adult use. Such calls may include
but are not limited to: assaults; disorderly conduct; indecent exposure;
prostitution; and trespassing.
   POTENTIAL POLLUTION HAZARD. An animal feedlot or manure storage area that:
      (1)   Does not comply with the requirements of Minnesota Rules, Parts
7020.2000 to 7020.2225 and has not been issued an SDS or NPDES permit
establishing an alternative construction or operating method; or
      (2)   Presents a potential or immediate source of pollution to waters of
the state as determined by inspection by the County Feedlot Officer, taking
into consideration the following:
         (a)   The size of the animal feedlot or manure storage area;
         (b)   The amount of pollutants reaching or that may reach waters of
the state;
         (c)   The location of the animal feedlot or manure storage area
relative to waters of the state;
         (d)   The means of conveyance of animal manure or process wastewater
into waters of the state; and
         (e)   The slope, vegetation, rainfall and other factors affecting the
likelihood or frequency of discharge of animal manure or process wastewater
into waters of the state.
   POWER PURCHASE AGREEMENT. A legally enforceable agreement between two or
more persons where one or more of the signatories agrees to provide electrical
power and one or more of the signatories agrees to purchase the power.
   PRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an Instrument Landing System (ILS), a Microwave Landing
System (MLS), or a Precision Approach Radar (PAR), a Transponder Landing System
(TLS), or a satellite-based system capable of operating to the same level of
precision guidance provided by the other included systems. Also, a runway for
which a precision instrument approach system is planned and is so indicated on
an approved planning document.
   PREMISES SAMPLING ROOM. An area in a micro-distillery or farm winery that is
used for the sampling of ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, spirits of
wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or other distilled spirits, including all
dilutions and mixtures thereof, that are produced for nonindustrial use.
Current state statute permits the sampling of up to individual 15 mL samples,
and no more than a total of 45 mL, or approximately 1.52 ounce of samples per
person in one day.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used.
   PUBLIC DRAINAGE SYSTEM. The meaning given to “drainage system” in M.S. §
103E.005, Subd. 12, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned and/or operated by a governmental unit.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals;
nursing homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Those lakes, streams and wetlands within the definition of
“public waters” as defined by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 6120, as amended.
   PUBLIC WELL. As regulated by Minnesota Rules, Chapter 4720, and as
administered by the State Department of Health.
   QUALIFIED EMPLOYEE. An employee of the state or a local unit of government,
who performs site evaluations or designs, installs, maintains, pumps or
inspects SSTS as part of the individual’s employment duties and is registered
on the SSTS professional register verifying specialty area endorsements
applicable to the work being conducted.
   QUARRY. Any pit or excavation made for the purpose of searching for or
removing any soil, earth, clay, sand, gravel, limestone or other non-metallic
minerals.
   RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY (NOT INCLUDING RAILROAD YARD). An area owned or leased
by a railroad company, but not including railroad stations, sidings, team
tracks, loading facilities, docks, yard or maintenance areas
   RECORD DRAWINGS. A set of drawings which to the fullest extent possible
document the final in-place location, size and type of all SSTS components
including the results of any materials testing performed and a description of
conditions during construction of the system, along with a certified statement
from the licensed representative which state that the system was installed in
accordance with all rules and regulations, including this section.
   RECREATION, WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL. The principal use of land or
buildings in a Shoreland District for the sale, lease, rental or trade of
products, goods and services that relate to a nearby body of water and could
not be effective if operated away from a body of water. Examples include:
fishing and bait shops; and boat and canoe rentals.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA. Any area, whether privately or publicly owned,
used on a daily, nightly, weekly or longer basis, for the accommodation of less
than five units, consisting of tents, travel trailers, pick-up coaches, motor
homes or camping trailers and whether use of such accommodation is granted free
of charge or for compensation; provided, that nothing in this definition  shall
be construed to include children's camps, industrial camps, migrant labor
camps, as defined in the state statutes and State Board of Health regulations,
and also shall not include United States forest service camps, state wildlife
management areas or state owned public access areas which are restricted in use
to picnicking and boat landing.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is 400
square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection, is
designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck and
is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary
living quarters for recreation, camping, travel, or seasonal use. Those
vehicles not meeting this definition shall be considered a structure for the
purposes of this ordinance. For the purpose of the floodplain ordinance, the
term RECREATIONAL VEHICLE is synonymous with the term “travel trailer/travel
vehicle.”
   RECYCLING FACILITY. A site in which waste or materials which otherwise
become waste are collected, separated, or processed and reused or returned to
use in the form of raw materials or products. Recycling includes, but is not
limited to, the composting of yard waste which has been previously separated
from other waste and collected by a sanitary facility, but does not include any
form of energy recovery.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in the flood insurance rate map.
   REPAIR SERVICES. Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of repair
services to individuals and households, rather than businesses, but excluding
automotive and equipment repair use types. Typical uses include appliance
repair shops, shoe repair, watch or jewelry repair shops, or repair of musical
instruments.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. An elevation no lower than one foot
above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation
caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a
floodway. These increases in water surface elevations are typically identified
in the floodway data tables, found in the flood insurance study.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A church or place of worship or religious assembly
with related facilities such as a rectory, convent, private school, meeting
hall, administrative offices, licensed adult or child daycare and the like.
   RESIDENCE. Any permanently located building or part thereof designed and
primarily used for human habitation. Unless actually being lived in, an
unoccupied structure would have to be a structure that could reasonably be
presumed to be a place capable of being lived in, in present condition.
Consideration will be given to the presence of an operational septic system,
water, electricity or other accessory utilities in the determination of a
RESIDENCE.
   RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY. A parcel containing a dwelling or residence, as those
terms are defined in this section. When a parcel qualifying as RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY includes farmland or land used for agriculture that surrounds the
dwelling or residence, the portion of the parcel considered to be RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY shall be one acre surrounding the dwelling.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, Subd. 23.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment serving food to be consumed primarily while
seated at tables or booths within a building or outdoor patio and which has no
on-sale liquor service.
   RESTAURANT (DRIVE-IN). A building and adjoining parking are used for the
purpose of furnishing food, soft drinks and ice cream to the public normally
for consumption outside the confines of the principal building, or in vehicles
parked upon the premises.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the county to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business.
   RETAIL SALES ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial enterprise that provides goods and/
or services directly to the consumer, where such goods are available for
immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser.
   RETREAT CENTER. A grouping of structures that are rented along with a
separate cooking facility to the public for compensation and catering primarily
to provide a location for group meetings, educational gatherings and social
events up to 50 people within both existing residential units or commercial
structures.
   RETREAT HOUSE. A single-family dwelling occupied in such a manner that
certain rooms in excess of those that may be used by members of the family and
occupied as a home or family unit, are rented along with cooking facilities, to
the public for compensation and catering primarily to provide a location for
small group meetings, educational gatherings and events with fewer than 20
people within an existing residential unit.
   RIDING ACADEMY. An establishment where horses are boarded and cared for, and
where instruction, riding, jumping and showing is offered, and where horses may
be hired for riding.
   RIPARIAN. Land contiguous to the bank of a steam, the shore of a lake or the
edge of a wetland.
   ROAD. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designed as a street, highway,
parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, service road, place or however
otherwise designed. Acceptance of a road for maintenance purposes by a unit of
government is not necessary for designation as a ROAD.
   ROAD, PRIVATE. An unplatted access to more than one lot or parcel, including
leased or rental properties where public access is limited.
   (ROAD) RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any United States, county, municipal or township
highway or road including any shoulder and drainage alongside the road.
   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
   RUNWAY. Any existing or planned paved surface or turf-covered area of the
airport which is specifically designated and used or planned to be used for the
landing and/or taking off of aircraft. The existing and planned RUNWAYS at the
Waseca Municipal Airport define the land use and airspace surfaces protected
under this ordinance. The coordinates of the runway ends based on the updated
Airport Layout Plan are as follows:
 
Runway end   Latitude      Longitude
15           N44°04'39.60"W93°33'20.76"
33           N44°04'09.40"W93°33'00.44"
33 (planned) N44°04'04.07"W93°32'56.85"
2 (planned)  N44°04'13.03"W93°33'19.07"
20 (planned) N44°04'34.01"W93°33'01.22"
Note: Coordinates are NAD83
 
   SALVAGE YARD. A lot or portion thereof where waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, baled, stored, packed, disassembled or
handled, including auto wrecking activities, building wrecking activities, used
lumber places and places for storage of salvaged building materials and
equipment, but not including such places where such uses are conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building.
   SATURATED SOIL. The highest elevation in the soil where all voids were
filled with water, as evidenced by the presence of soil mottling or other
information.
   SCHOOL. 
      (1)   An institution other than a trade school that provides educational
instruction to students; or
      (2)   In relation to adult-use cannabis, a public school as defined under
M.S. § 120A.05 or a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting requirements
under M.S. § 120A.24.
   SCHOOL, TRADE. A non-parochial and non-public school for teaching industrial
skills in which machinery is employed as a means of instruction.
   SEASONAL PRODUCE STAND. Seasonal sales of agricultural and other farm-
related products, the majority of which are locally produced.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure or a sewage
treatment system and the nearest specified lot line, sewage treatment system,
road centerline, abutting property, ordinary high water level of a lake or
stream, top of bluff or other entity.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing and roof
drainage, chemically treated hot tub or pool water, and water softener
discharge, from any industrial, agricultural or commercial establishment, or
any dwelling or any other structure. DOMESTIC WASTE includes liquid waste
produced by toilets, bathing, laundry, culinary operations and the floor drains
associated with these sources, including household cleaners and other
constituents in amounts normally used for domestic purposes. Animal waste,
commercial and industrial waste is not considered DOMESTIC WASTE.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in §§
5.02 and
5.03.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations and force main, and
all other construction, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHOOTING RANGE. An outdoor or indoor facility that may include buildings or
structures used for target practice with firearms.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments planned, constructed
and managed as a total entity with off-street parking.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
   SHORELAND. 
      (1)   Land located within the following distances from public waters:
1,000 feet from the normal high water level of a lake, pond or flowage; and 300
feet from a river or stream, or the landward extension of a floodplain
designated by ordinance on such a river or stream, whichever is greater.
      (2)   The practical limits of SHORELANDS may be less than the statutory
limits whenever the waters involved are bounded by natural topographic divides
which extend landward from the waters for lesser distances and when approved by
the Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   SHORT-TERM STOCKPILING SITE. A manure storage area where manure is stored or
processed according Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2000, subpart 3.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, illustration or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to
a product, place, activity, person, institution or business. Warning signs or
public identification signs such as street signs shall be exempt from these
regulations when under two square feet in size.
   SIGN (IN SIGN REGULATION). Any device, structure, fixture, or placard using
graphic symbols, and/or written copy displayed for communicative or
informational purposes and visible to members of the public who are not on the
premises on which the device is located, including any structure erected
primarily for use in connection with the display on such device and all
lighting or other attachments used in connection.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. See BILLBOARD.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign that directs attention to a business or profession or
a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises where
such a sign is located.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign on which such illumination is not kept
stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times where such sign is
in use.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The area within the frame shall be used to calculate
the gross area except that the width of the frame in excess of 12 inches shall
be added thereto. When letters or graphics are mounted without a frame, the
GROSS AREA shall be bounded by straight lines six inches beyond the periphery
of the letters or graphics. Each surface utilized to display a message or to
attract attention shall be measured as a separate sign.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as part of the
sign.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. Any sign affixed to any hood, marquee or canopy over the
entrance to a building.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any sign that indicates the name and address of a building
or the name of the occupant thereof and the practice of a permitted occupation
therein.
   SIGN, PYLON. A freestanding sign erected upon a single pylon or post which
is in excess of ten feet in height with the sign mounted on the top thereof.
   SIGN, ROTATING. A sign which revolves or rotates on its axis by mechanical
means.
   SKATING RINK. An establishment that provides facilities for participant
skating.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a8d2a538cd52becde1f1ec76eab022cd4167567d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-395.png]
   SOIL, HIGHLY ERODIBLE. A soil type with a Kw factor in excess of .34.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
      (1)   ACCESSORY. A solar panel or array mounted on a building, pole or
rack that is secondary to the primary use of the parcel on which it is located
and which is directly connected to or designed to serve the majority of the
energy needs of the primary use.
      (2)   SOLAR FARMS. A solar array composed of multiple solar panels on
ground-mounted rack or poles which is the primary land use for the parcel on
which it is located and that are connected to the electric grid.
   SMALL BREWERY. A brewery that produces no more than 20,000 barrels of malt
liquor in a calendar year.
   SPECIAL PROTECTION AREA. Land within 300 feet of all:
      (1)   Protected waters and protected wetlands as identified on Department
of Natural Resources protected waters and wetland maps; and
      (2)   Intermittent streams and ditches identified on United States
Geological Survey quadrangle maps, excluding drainage ditches with berms and
segments of intermittent streams, which are, grassed waterways.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Human genitals, pubic region, buttock, anus or female breast(s),
below a point immediately above the top of the areola, unless completely and
opaquely covered; and
      (2)   Erect penis, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. 
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
analingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation or ejaculate, sodomy, oral
copulation, coitus or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast(s);
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments, or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged
in activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical constraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and
      (7)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   SSTS. Sub-surface Sewage Treatment System including an ISTS, MSTS or LSTS.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT or SDS PERMIT. A state permit that may be
processed in accordance with Minnesota Rules, Parts 7001.0040; 7001.0050;
7001.0100, subparts 4 and 5; and 7001.0110.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota’s Office
of Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business.
   STEEP SLOPE. Lands having average slopes of over 12%, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more, which are not bluffs.
   STORY. The portion of a building between the surface of a floor and the
surface of the floor above it; or if there is no floor above, the space between
the floor and ceiling above.
   STORAGE, BULK. The storage of chemicals, petroleum products or hazardous
materials in above ground or below ground storage container designed for
wholesale distribution or mass consumption.
   STORAGE, OUTDOOR. The storage of materials, merchandise, equipment and
products outside, but not fully enclosed by, the principal or accessory
buildings on a property for more than 96 hours. OUTSIDE STORAGE does not
involve any product representation or signage except for emergency or safety-
related signs.
   STREET. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrian or
vehicles, or both, to abutting properties whether such right-of-way is
designated as a street, highway, thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue or
boulevard.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street which serves, or is designated to serve, as a
traffic-way for a neighborhood or as a feeder to a major street.
   STREET, CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
   STREET, MAJOR OR THOROUGHFARE. A street which serves, or is designed to
serve, heavy flows of traffic, and which is used primarily as a route for
traffic between communities and/or other heavy traffic generating areas.
   STREET, MAJOR TOWNSHIP. A street under township jurisdiction which is
generally considered a major traffic carrier.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve primarily as an access to abutting
properties.
   STREET, PRIVATE. A street which is not dedicated to the community for public
use.
   STREET, SERVICE. A marginal access street which is generally parallel and
adjacent to a major street.
   STREET, WIDTH. The width of the right-of-way measured at right angles to the
centerline of the street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having location on
the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, factories, sheds,
detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes and other similar items, including
advertising devices or other construction or erection with special function or
form and not including fences or walks.
      (1)   In the Airport Overlay District, an object constructed or installed
by humans, including, but without limitations, buildings, towers, smokestacks
and overhead transmission lines.
      (2)   In the Floodplain Overlay District, a roofed building, including a
gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground, as well as a
manufactured home. Recreational vehicles not considered travel-ready, as
detailed in §
6.23(D)(16) shall also be considered a STRUCTURE for the purposes of enforcing
the Floodplain Overlay District standards.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership or association who
shall lay out any subdivision or part thereof as defined herein, either for
himself or herself or for others.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of land into parcels smaller than a quarter-
quarter section (40 acres) when the split creates or leaves more than two
parcels and when any parcel, created or left, is less than five acres in size
exclusive of rights-of-way, or when the division requires a new public or
private street or access is required to serve one or more parcels.
   SUBSTATIONS. Any electrical facility designed to convert electricity
produced by wind turbines to a voltage for interconnection with transmission
lines.
   SUB-SURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM (SSTS). A sewage treatment system, or
part thereof, serving a dwelling, or other establishment, or group thereof, and
using sewage tanks followed by soil treatment and disposal or using advanced
treatment devices that discharge below final grade. A SUB-SURFACE SEWAGE
TREATMENT SYSTEM includes holding tanks and privies.
   SURFACE WATERS. Waters, which include, but are not limited to, rivers,
streams, creeks, ponds, intermittent streams and wetlands of Type Ell - Type
VII as defined in Minnesota Department of Natural Resources Circular 39.
   SURVEYOR. A person duly registered as a land surveyor by the State of
Minnesota.
   SWCD. Waseca County Soil and Water Conservation District.
   SWECS. Small Wind Energy Conversion System. See WIND TURBINE, ACCESSORY.
   TANGENT. A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a curve
where a tangent meets a curve.
   TAPROOM. An area for the on-sale consumption of malt liquor produced by the
brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one brewery location
owned by the brewer. A TAPROOM may also include sales for off-premises
consumption of malt liquor produced at the brewery location or adjacent to the
taproom and owned by the brewer for off-premises consumption, packaged subject
to M.S. § 340A.301, Subdivision 10, as it may be amended from time to time, or
its successor.
   TAVERN. Any place in which fermented malt beverages or intoxicating liquors
are sold for consumption upon the premises.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign that is not permanently installed and is displayed
concurrent with a specific event or occurrence for a limited duration, after
which the sign must be removed.
   TEMPORARY WORKER HOUSING. Any living quarters permanently maintained for
employees to occupy on a seasonal basis for not more than six months per year.
   TERMINAL, FREIGHT. An area or building where cargo and freight is stored,
where loading and unloading is carried on regularly, and where minor
maintenance of vehicles is performed.
   TERMINAL, TRUCK. An area or building where trucks and cargo are stored,
where loading and unloading is carried on regularly, and where minor
maintenance of vehicles is performed.
   THEATER (DRIVE-IN). A commercial establishment offering facilities for
viewing movies outdoors.
   TOE OF THE BLUFF (SLOPE). The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an
average slope exceeding 18% or the ordinary high water level, whichever is
higher.
   TOP OF THE BLUFF (SLOPE). For the purposes of measuring setbacks, bluff
impact zone, and administering vegetation management standards, the higher
point of a 50-foot segment with an average slope exceeding 18%.
   TOTAL CONFINEMENT FEEDLOT BUILDING. Livestock contained in the feedlot
building at all times.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. In reference to wind towers, the highest point, above ground
level, reached by a rotor tip or any other part of the WECS.
   TOWER. In reference to WECS, towers include vertical structures that support
the electrical generator, rotor blades, meteorological equipment,
communications or telephone equipment.
   TOWNHOUSE. A multiple-family dwelling which maintains private ingress and
egress, attached to its own foundation, contains no independent dwellings above
or below it and is attached to other similar dwellings by a common wall.
   TRACT. An area of land.
   TRANSFER OF PROPERTY. The act of a party by which the title to property is
conveyed from one person to another. The sale and every other method, direct or
indirect, of disposing or parting with property, or with an interest therein,
or with the possession thereof, absolutely or conditionally, voluntarily or
involuntarily, by or without judicial proceedings, as a conveyance, sale,
mortgage, gifts or otherwise.
   TRAVERSE WAYS. For the purpose of determining height limits as set forth in
the Airport Overlay District, shall be increased in height by 17 feet for
interstate highways; 15 feet for all other public roadways; ten feet or the
height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road,
whichever is greater, for private roads; 23 feet for railroads; and for
waterways and all other traverse ways not previously mentioned, an amount equal
to the height of the highest mobile object that would normally traverse it.
   TREATMENT LEVEL. Treatment system performance levels defined in Minnesota
Rules, Chapter 7083.4030, Table III for testing of proprietary treatment
products, which include the following.
      (1)   Level A: cBOD5 < 15 mg/L; TSS < 15 mg/L; fecal coliforms < 1,000/
100 mL.
      (2)   Level B: cBOD5 < 25 mg/L; TSS < 30 mg/L; fecal coliforms < 10,000/
100 mL.
      (3)   Level C: cBOD5 < 125 mg/L; TSS < 80 mg/L; fecal coliforms N/A.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   TRUCK STOP. A facility intended to provide services to the trucking
industry, including but not limited to the following activities: dispensing of
fuel; repair shops; automated washes; restaurants and motels; all as part of
the facility.
   TYPE I SYSTEM. An ISTS that follows a standard trench, bed, at-grade, mound,
or graywater system design in accordance with MPCA rules, Minnesota Rules,
Parts 7080.2200 through 7080.2240.
   TYPE II SYSTEM. An ISTS with acceptable modifications or sewage containment
system that may be permitted for use on a site not meeting the conditions
acceptable for a standard Type I system. These include systems on lots with
rapidly permeable soils or lots in floodplains and privies or holding tanks.
   TYPE III SYSTEM. An ISTS that uses soil to treat sewage but does not meet
the tank, size or distribution requirements for a Type I system. TYPE III
SYSTEMS are designed for use on a lot that cannot accommodate a standard Type I
soil treatment and dispersal system.
   TYPE IV SYSTEM. An ISTS, having an approved pretreatment device and
incorporating pressure distribution and dosing.
   TYPE V SYSTEM. An ISTS designed by a professional engineer that does not
meet the prescriptive designs for Types I-IV. TYPE V SYSTEMS must meet the
Public Health and Safety Standards of Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.1500.
   UNINCORPORATED AREA. The area outside a city.
   UNPERMITTED OR NONCERTIFIED LIQUID MANURE STORAGE AREA. A liquid manure
storage area that is in operation and:
      (1)   The owner/operator does not have an agency or delegated county
feedlot permit for the manure storage area and was required to apply for and
obtain feedlot permit prior to the construction or operation of the manure
storage area; or
      (2)   The owner/operator has not complied with pre-operational
requirements of Minnesota Rules, Part 7020.2100 or permit requirements if
applicable.
   USDA. United States Department of Agriculture.
   USE. The purpose, for which land, premises, or a building thereon is
designated, arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. See NONCONFORMING USE.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which is permitted outright in the zoning district in
which it is located, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards of such district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The primary use of the land or structures as distinguished
from accessory uses.
   USE, SUBSTANDARD. Any use of land or structures which is permitted within
the applicable zoning district but does not meet the minimum lot area,
frontage, setbacks or other dimensional requirements of this ordinance and
which lawfully existed on the effective date of this ordinance or on the date
the use became substandard because of rezoning of the property or amendment to
the text of this ordinance.
   USED FOR. To include the phrases: “arranged for”, “designed for”, “intended
for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less; and
is less than 4,900 feet in length.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation of the provisions of this ordinance
where it is determined that, by reason of exceptional circumstances, the strict
enforcement of any provision of this ordinance would cause unnecessary hardship
or that strict conformity with the provisions of this ordinance would be
unreasonable, impractical or not feasible under the circumstances. No VARIANCE
may be granted that would allow a use that is prohibited in the zoning district
in which the subject property is located. VARIANCES shall be limited to height,
bulk, density and yard requirements.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a road or highway centerline
located between lines of different percentage of grade.
   VETERINARY CLINIC. A place where animals are given medical care and the
boarding of animals is limited to short-term care incidental to the hospital
use.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no straight in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning document.
   WAREHOUSE DISTRIBUTION FACILITY. A use where goods are received and/or
stored for delivery to the ultimate customer at remote locations.
   WATERCOURSE. For the purposes of enforcing the Floodplain Overlay District
standards, a channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously or
intermittently in a definitive direction. The term applies to either natural or
artificially constructed channels.
   WATER ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small, aboveground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses, patios and
detached decks.
   WATER ORIENTED COMMERCIAL BUSINESS. The use of land for commercial purposes
where access to and use of a surface water feature are an integral part of the
normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants with transient
docking facilities are examples of such use.
   WATER SURFACES. In the Airport Overlay District, has the same meaning as
land for the establishment of protected zones.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the state or any portions thereof.
   WETLANDS. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. For the purpose of this ordinance, WETLANDS must:
      (1)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Be inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation; and
      (3)   Under normal (undisturbed) circumstances support a prevalence of
hydrophytic vegetation.
   WILDLIFE AREA. An area set aside for the preservation of natural vegetation
or wildlife.
   WIND FARM. One or more wind turbines on a single parcel of land that
collectively have above 100kw in total name plate generating capacity, under a
contiguous easement, or interconnected upstream of a busbar and that are
intended to produce power for sale to an off-site energy user other than the
owner of the turbines or for sale to a regulated electric utility, municipal
utility or electric cooperative.
   WIND TURBINE, ACCESSORY. A wind energy conversion system with under 100kw
name plate generating capacity that is accessory to the principal use of the
lot or parcel, consisting of a wind turbine, a tower and associated control or
conversion electronics that is intended to primarily reduce on-site consumption
of utility power.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
a structure from its lowest level to the sky except as permitted in this
ordinance. The YARD extends along the lot line at right angles to such lot line
to a depth or width specified in the setback regulations for the zoning
district in which such lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting street right-of-way line
to depth required in the setback regulations for the zoning district in which
such lot is located.
   YARD, REAR. An open space unoccupied except for accessory buildings on the
same lot with a building between the rear lines of the building and the rear
line of the lot for the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open unoccupied space extending along the side lot line
between the front and rear yards to a depth or width required by setback
regulations for the zoning district in which such lot is located.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The person duly appointed by the County Board and
charged with the enforcement of this ordinance or his or her authorized
representative.
   ZONING AMENDMENT. A change in this ordinance authorized by the County Board
which can take three forms:
      (1)   A comprehensive revision or modification of the zoning text and
map;
      (2)   A text change in zone requirements; or
      (3)   A change in the map, i.e., the zoning designation of a particular
parcel or parcels.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the zoning
jurisdiction for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot and
bulk of structures and premises are uniform.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this ordinance as a part
hereof designating the zoning districts.
   ZONING PERMIT. A document issued by the Zoning Administrator authorizing
buildings, structures or uses consistent with the terms of this ordinance and
issued for the purpose of carrying out and enforcing its provisions.
(Ord. 97, passed 7-21-2009; Ord. 108, passed 3-5-2013; Ord. 112, passed 1-7-
2014; Ord. 113, passed 4-15-2014; Ord. 117, passed 6-17-2014; Ord. 118, passed
8-19-2014; Ord. 143, passed 9-15-2020; Ord. 146, passed 4-20-2021; Ord. 148,
passed - -2021; Ord. 152, passed 10-18-2022; Ord. 156, passed 3-19-2024; Ord.
158, passed 10-1-2024; Ord. 159, passed 12-3-2024; Ord. 160, passed 2-4-2025)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                  Code Section
Chapter 14                    6.24
84.415                        6.23
Chapter 87A                   6.16
93.44 to 93.51                8.03
103B.101, Subdivision 12a     8.03
Chapter 103E                  5.05
103E.005, Subdivision 9       8.03
103E.005, Subdivision 12      8.03
103E.021, Subdivision 6       5.05
                              1.03,
Chapter 103F                  2.07,
                              6.23
                              1.09,
103F.48                       2.01,
                              5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 1(c)     8.03
103F.48, Subdivision 1(d)     8.03
103F.48, Subdivision 1(g)     8.03
103F.48, Subdivision 3        5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 3(b)     5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 3(c)     5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 5        5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 7        8.03
103F.48, Subdivision 7(b)     5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 7(c)     5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 7(d)     5.05
103F.48, Subdivision 9        5.05
103F.201 to 103F.227          5.05
103F.401, Subdivision 7       8.03
103G.245                      6.22,
                              6.23
Chapter 115                   6.06
115.01                        6.23
115.55                        5.02
115.56, Subdivision 3(b)(3)   5.02
Chapter 116                   6.06
120A.05                       8.03
120A.24                       8.03
152.0263, Subdivision 5    6.16
169.88                        6.06
211B.045                      4.12
Chapter 216                   6.16
245.462, Subdivision 23       8.03
245A.02, Subdivision 14       8.03
272.115                       5.02
Chapter 327                   3.09,
                              4.04
Chapter 340A                  6.16,
                              8.03
340A.301                      6.16
340A.301, Subdivision 10      8.03
340A.315                      6.16
Chapter 342                   6.16
342.01, Subdivision 50        8.03
342.13                        6.16
342.22, Subdivision 4(b)      6.16
342.24                        6.16
360.063                       6.24
360.063, Subdivision 6a       6.24
360.068, Subdivision 2        6.24
360.073                       6.24
                              1.03,
                              1.09,
                              2.01,
394                           5.05,
                              6.23,
                              7.03,
                              8.01
394.25, Subdivision 8         6.06
394.27                        6.06,
                              8.03
394.361                       7.03
429.081                       5.04
                              1.09,
462                           2.01,
                              5.05
462.358                       3.06
462.358, Subdivision 1a       3.06
462.367, Subdivision 14394.36 6.16
515B.1-106                    3.06
541.07                        5.05
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     1.01 -
                     1.12,
                     2.01 -
                     2.07,
                     3.01 -
                     3.09,
                     4.01 -
97       7-21-2009   4.13,
                     5.01 -
                     5.04,
                     6.01 -
                     6.26,
                     7.01 -
                     7.06,
                     8.01 -
                     8.03
98       1-5-2010    5.02
                     6.04,
104.1    6-21-2011   6.08,
                     6.14
                     6.05,
105      8-2-2011    6.06,
                     6.18
106      2-21-2012   6.27
107      11-6-2012   3.08
108      3-5-2013    6.16,
                     8.03
111      10-1-2013   6.08,
                     6.16
112      1-7-2014    6.16,
                     8.03
114      4-15-2014   6.08
                     6.16,
113      4-15-2014   6.17,
                     6.19,
                     8.03
115      6-17-2014   6.19
116      6-17-2014   6.04
                     6.08,
                     6.16,
117      6-17-2014   6.17,
                     6.25,
                     8.03
                     4.12,
118      8-19-2014   6.25,
                     8.03
120      10-7-2014   4.09
121      6-16-2015   6.07
                     3.06,
123      9-20-2016   3.08,
                     3.09,
                     6.08
                     6.07,
125      7-18-2017   6.08,
                     7.02,
                     7.03
                     1.09,
                     2.01,
126      10-17-2017  5.05,
                     6.22,
                     7.06
127      11-7-2017   6.16
--       --          6.19
128      3-20-2018   6.09
129      7-17-2018   4.12
131      7-2-2019    4.12
                     6.03,
138      9-3-2019    6.14,
                     6.16
139      10-15-2019  6.22
141      5-5-2020    6.16
142      7-21-2020   6.19
                     6.07,
143      9-15-2020   6.14,
                     8.03
144      11-17-2020  6.24
145      4-6-2021    5.02
146      4-20-2021   6.08,
                     8.03
                     3.02,
147      8-3-2021    4.02,
                     6.05,
                     6.06
148      - -2021     2.04,
                     8.03
149      2-1-2022    6.11
150      5-3-2022    6.03
152      10-18-2022  6.16,
                     8.03
153      6-6-2023    3.06
156      3-19-2024   6.23,
                     8.03
157      7-2-2024    6.21
158      10-1-2024   6.16,
                     8.03
159      12-3-2024   6.23,
                     8.03
                     2.07,
                     3.02 -
                     3.09,
                     4.01,
                     4.02,
                     4.12,
                     4.13,
                     5.01,
                     5.04,
                     5.05,
                     6.01 -
160      2-4-2025    6.03,
                     6.06 -
                     6.09,
                     6.13,
                     6.14,
                     6.16,
                     6.17,
                     6.19 -
                     6.22,
                     6.24 -
                     6.26,
                     8.03
161      3-18-2025   6.06
162      5-5-2025    5.02
                    
 
