CODE OF ORDINANCES
WAVERLY, MN
2023 S-18 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 23-01, passed 11-14-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
ORDINANCE NO. 02-13
CITY OF WAVERLY
COUNTY OF WRIGHT
STATE OF MINNESOTA
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF WAVERLY, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to
cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Waverly, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Waverly.” This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
GENERAL PROVISIONS, ADMINISTRATION, PUBLIC WORKS, TRAFFIC CODE, GENERAL
REGULATIONS, BUSINESS REGULATIONS, GENERAL OFFENSES, LAND USAGE, TABLE OF
SPECIAL ORDINANCES, PARALLEL REFERENCES
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any offense
committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective
date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions of
ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code shall remain in
effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance adopting a fee
schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
City’s official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this
Code of Ordinances shall marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City’s official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF WAVERLY, MINNESOTA THIS 10TH DAY OF
JUNE, 2003.
APPROVED:
Charles Bush /s/  
MAYOR
ATTEST:
Deborah Ryks /s/  
CITY CLERK
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Waverly City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   (1)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to
the components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may
be referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may
be referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as
“§ 10.01.”
      (2)   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title,
chapter and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall
not be deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or other legal actions at a
future time. The term CITY, when used in this code, may also be used to refer
to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code, as modified
by amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The county or counties in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties incurred
or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The liabilities,
proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or forfeitures
shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted. In
particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-way,
contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance, establishment or
vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate officers shall remain
valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk/Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk/Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
31.   CITY COUNCIL
      
32.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
33.   COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
34.   CITY POLICIES
      
35.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
30.01   Purpose
   
30.02   Interpretation and effect
   
30.03   Definitions
   
30.04   Establishment of Emergency Management Organization
   
30.05   Powers and duties of Director
   
30.06   Local emergencies
   
30.07   Emergency regulations
   
30.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
§ 30.01 PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, from sabotage or hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which require that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 30.02 INTERPRETATION AND EFFECT.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he or she would
otherwise be entitled under this chapter, the workers’ compensation law, or any
pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 30.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT.
      (1)   The preparation for and the carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which military forces are primarily
responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage resulting from
disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of nature, or from
sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material mishaps.
      (2)   These functions include, without limitation firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions.
      (3)   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred
to as “civil defense” functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES.
      (1)   The total personnel resources engaged in city-level emergency
management functions in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or any
rule or order thereunder.
      (2)   This includes personnel from city departments, authorized
volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and  coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 30.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government, the Emergency Management
Organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite term and may be removed at any time.
The Director shall serve with a salary and shall be paid necessary expenses.
The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
§ 30.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the state emergency plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions,
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   (1)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for
the emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the
Council for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be
the duty of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city
to perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan
may be modified in like manner from time to time.
      (2)   The Director shall coordinate the emergency management activities
of the city to the end that they shall be consistent and fully integrated with
the emergency plans of the federal government and the state and correlated with
emergency plans of the county and political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with state and city emergency plans, the Director shall
institute training programs and public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the city emergency plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   (1)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city’s Emergency Management Organization
and to the Governor upon request.
      (2)   The head of each department or agency in cooperation with the
Director shall be responsible for the planning and programming of emergency
activities as will involve the utilization of the facilities of the department
or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 30.06 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
§ 30.07 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may, by resolution, promulgate regulations
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulations respecting the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies, the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing, shall
be dated, shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the Office of the Clerk/Treasurer. A copy shall
be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Clerk/Treasurer’s Office shall be conspicuously posted
at the front of the City Hall, other headquarters of the city or at other
places in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution.
By resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 30.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The Emergency Management Organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
CHAPTER 31: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
31.01   Regular meetings
   
31.02   Special meetings
   
31.03   Initial meeting
   
31.04   Order of business
   
31.05   Claims
   
31.06   Public meetings
Cross-reference:
   Elections, see §
34.01
   Prerequisite for city action, see §
34.02
§ 31.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the second Tuesday of
each month at 7:30 p.m. All meetings, including special meetings, shall be held
in the Council Chambers.
(Ord. 2.01, passed - -)
§ 31.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call a special meeting
of the Council, but notice of the meeting shall be given to all members of the
Council and no other business than specified in the notice shall be transacted
at the special meeting.
   (B)   The notice calling a special meeting of the Council shall be read at
the meeting and entered in full upon the minutes by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   At least three days before the meeting, written notice shall be posted
on the bulletin board of the city and shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to
each person who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings. As
an alternative to mailing or otherwise delivering notice to persons who have
requested notice, notice may be published once at least three days before the
meeting in the official newspaper.
(Ord. 2.01, passed - -)
§ 31.03 INITIAL MEETING.
   At the first regular Council meeting in January of each year the Council
shall:
   (A)   Designate the official newspaper;
   (B)   Choose one of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualified; and
   (C)   Appoint the officers and employees and the members of boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary.
(Ord. 2.01, passed - -)
§ 31.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   The order of business at the regular meetings of the City Council shall be
conducted in the following manner:
   (A)   Call to order;
   (B)   Roll call;
   (C)   Approval of minutes;
   (D)   Public hearings;
   (E)   Petitions, claims and requests;
   (F)   Ordinances and resolutions;
   (G)   Reports of committees;
   (H)   Unfinished business;
   (I)   New business; and
   (J)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 2.01, passed - -)
§ 31.05 CLAIMS.
   All claims against the city shall be in writing and every claim shall be
filed with the Clerk/Treasurer at least two days before the regular meeting at
which the claim is to be acted upon by the Council.
(Ord. 2.01, passed - -)
§ 31.06 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All Council meetings, including special meetings and meetings of Council
committees, shall be open to the public unless the Minnesota Open Meeting Law,
M.S. Ch. 13D, as it may be amended from time to time, authorizes a meeting to
be closed. The process for closing a meeting shall comply with that chapter.
(Ord. 2.01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
32.01   Mayor
   
32.02   Clerk/Treasurer
   
32.03   Other officers
   
32.04   Salaries
Code of Conduct
   
32.15   Policy and purpose
   
32.16   Council conduct with city staff
   
32.17   Scope of persons covered
   
32.18   Definitions
   
32.19   Employee conflict resolution
   
32.20   Complaints regarding Council or appointive board conduct
   
32.21   Discipline (corrective action); in general
   
32.22   Written disciplinary form
   
32.23   Suspension from duties
   
32.24   Investigations of misconduct
   
32.25   Disciplinary review procedures
   
32.26   Appeal process
§ 32.01 MAYOR.
   The Mayor of the city shall, by virtue of his or her office, preside over
the meetings of the Council, but in his or her absence, the Acting Mayor as
provided by
§ 31.03(B) or in the absence of the Acting Mayor another Council member
selected by the Council shall preside and he or she shall have and exercise all
the powers of a presiding officer. He or she shall be the general custodian of
all public property of the city; he or she shall see to it that all officers
perform their duties and that the ordinances of the city are enforced.
(Ord. 2.02, passed - -)
§ 32.02 CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer shall be combined and be
known as the “City Clerk/Treasurer.”
   (B)   The duties of the Treasurer, as prescribed by the statutes, shall be
performed by the incumbent of the Office of Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall make provision for an annual audit of the
city’s financial affairs by a certified public accountant in accordance with
the minimum procedures prescribed by law.
(Ord. 2.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 3.03, passed 9-21-93)
§ 32.03 OTHER OFFICERS.
   At the first regular meeting in the month of January, the Council shall
appoint the Building Inspector and the Fire Marshal. The officers shall hold
their offices for the term of one year and until their successors have been
appointed and shall have qualified. The Council shall fix the salary or
compensation of the officers and may change the same at any time during the
year.
(Ord. 2.02, passed - -)
§ 32.04 SALARIES.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 415.11, as it may be amended
from time to time, salaries of the Mayor and members of the City Council shall
be set by ordinance. No change in salary shall take effect until after the next
succeeding municipal election.
CODE OF CONDUCT
§ 32.15 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the City of Waverly to provide a safe, secure and
healthy environment for employees, public officials and citizens when engaged
in city business. The city is committed to working to maintain a work
environment free from acts or threats of violence, harassment, intimidation and
other disruptive behavior.
   (B)   Acts of violence, threats, harassment, intimidation and other
disruptive behavior in the workplace will not be tolerated. All reports of such
conduct will be taken seriously and will be dealt with in a timely and
appropriate manner. The behavior described above can include oral or written
statements, gestures, or expressions that communicate either a direct or
indirect threat. Individuals who commit such acts may be removed from city
property and may be subject to disciplinary action, criminal penalties, or
both.
   (C)   The cooperation of all persons subject to this code of conduct is
needed to implement this policy effectively. They should not ignore violent,
threatening, harassing, intimidating or other disruptive behavior. If they
observe or experience any behavior prohibited by this code of conduct, by
anyone engaged in city business or acting on behalf of the city in any way, it
should be reported immediately to any city employee or city official who will
initiate the appropriate action.
   (D)   Council members’ statutory duties are performed primarily by the
Council as a whole. The Council, and not individual members, supervises
administrative officers and employees. Individuals do not give orders or
otherwise supervise city employees, unless directed to do so by the Council.
The Council as a unit, however, has complete authority over all administrative
affairs in the city; this authority is primarily implemented through the City
Clerk/Treasurer. It is the policy of the Council that each Councilperson will
respect the abilities, experience, and dignity of each city employee.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.16 COUNCIL CONDUCT WITH CITY STAFF.
   (A)   The Council adopts the following policies regarding Council conduct
with city staff:
      (1)   Questions of city staff and/or requests for information shall be
directed to the City Clerk, Maintenance Supervisor or department heads.
Materials supplied to a Council member in response to a request will be made
available to all members of the Council.
      (2)   Except as part of an official Council employee evaluation or
disciplinary proceedings, Council members shall never express concerns about
the performance of a city employee in public. Council members do not criticize
the conduct or performance of employees to the employee directly, or to the
employee's supervisor. Comments about staff performance shall be made to the
City Clerk/Treasurer in accord with personnel procedures.
      (3)   Individual Council members may not attempt to influence staff on
the making of appointments, awarding of contracts, selecting of consultants,
processing of development applications, or granting of city licenses and
permits.
      (4)   Routine secretarial support will be provided to all Council members
incident to their official duties. Requests for additional staff support, even
in high priority or emergency situations, shall be made to the City Clerk/
Treasurer who is responsible for allocating city resources in order to maintain
a professional, well-run city government.
   (B)   The Council adopts the following policies regarding Council conduct
with the public:
      (1)   The Council and its members will endeavor to conduct proceedings
without signs of partiality, prejudice, or disrespect toward individuals
participating in a public forum.
      (2)   The Mayor (or Acting Mayor in the Mayor's absence) will determine
and announce limits on speakers at the start of the public meeting. Generally,
each speaker will be allocated ten minutes. If many speakers are anticipated,
the Mayor may shorten the time limit and/or ask speakers to limit themselves to
new information and points of view not already covered by previous speakers.
Subject to reasonable rules set by the Council, no speaker will be turned away
unless exhibiting inappropriate behavior. The Mayor's rulings made pursuant to
this section (B)(2) are subject to reversal by a majority vote of the Council.
      (3)   Only the Mayor (or Acting Mayor), and not individual Council
members, can interrupt a speaker during a presentation. Upon conclusion of a
presentation, consistent with any rules established for the hearing, Council
members may question speakers. The Council does not belligerently challenge or
belittle speakers.
       (4)   The City Attorney serves as advisory parliamentarian for the city
and is available to answer questions or interpret situations according to
parliamentary procedures. Final rulings on parliamentary procedure are made by
the Mayor, subject to the appeal of the full Council.
   (C)   The Council adopts the following policies regarding Council conduct in
unofficial settings:
      (1)   It is appropriate for Council members to give a brief overview of
city policy when asked about a specific issue by constituents and to refer to
city staff for further information. Councilpersons lack power to overtly or
implicitly promise Council action, or to promise that city staff will perform
or expedite a specific service or function (fix a pothole, rush a permit,
etc.).
      (2)   The Council endeavors to maintain an atmosphere that respects each
member. It is unacceptable to make derogatory personal comments about other
Council members.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.17 SCOPE OF PERSONS COVERED.
   The provisions of this code of conduct shall apply to all employees, elected
officials, department heads, other "exempt" employees, members of boards/
commissions/committees, and citizen volunteers engaged in city business or
representing the city in any way. Any employee included in a collective
bargaining agreement entered into in accordance with the Public Employment
Labor Relations Act of 1971, as amended, or who is subject to other statutory
requirements, shall be exempt from any provision of this code of conduct which
is inconsistent with or less restrictive than such agreement or statute.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.18 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENSURE. A written, official expression of disapproval for misconduct on the
part of an elected or appointed official.
   COMPLAINANT. The person who is making the complaint.
   COMPLAINT. A report of alleged misconduct delivered in person, via mail, or
electronic means.
   MISCONDUCT. Willful improper conduct which, by this code of conduct, is
subject to disciplinary sanctions.
   PUBLIC OFFICIAL. Includes any of the following:
      (1)   Members of the City Council;
      (2)   The Mayor;
      (3)   Members of boards/commissions/committees;
      (4)   The following individuals for as long as their titles are exempt or
unclassified:
         (a)   Clerk/Treasurer;
         (b)   Maintenance Supervisor;
         (c)   Municipal Liquor Store Manager;
         (d)   Municipal Liquor Store Employees;
         (e)   Municipal Liquor Store Bookkeeper;
         (f)   Building Official;
         (g)   City Assessor;
         (h)   Administrative Secretary;
         (i)   City Engineer;
         (j)   City Attorney;
         (k)   Clerical Office Support; and
         (l)   Maintenance employees.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.19 EMPLOYEE CONFLICT RESOLUTION.
   (A)   The fair and prompt resolution of an employee's job-related conflicts
and concerns is essential to the creation of a positive working environment.
The following employee conflict resolution guidelines are designed to help
employees and their supervisors work together to resolve job-related problems
and conflicts. Employees will follow these guidelines as soon as possible after
conflict or concern arises. The fact that a dispute is pending does not afford
an employee with an excuse for failing to attend to duties.
   (B)   The City Mayor or Clerk/Treasurer may intervene in, and alter, the
dispute resolution process as appropriate to protect employees from harassment,
discrimination, abuse or other inappropriate behavior, or may refer the matter
to the City Attorney or appropriate governmental authority.
   (C)   If a conflict, concern or problem arises, the employee will discuss it
with the person with whom there is a conflict or concern, unless the
circumstances and nature of the problem make the discussion inappropriate,
unsafe or counterproductive. The two individuals will discuss the problem and
decide on a mutually acceptable resolution. This applies to conflicts among
employees or with a supervisor.
   (D)   If a conflict or concern with another individual is not satisfactorily
resolved, and the concern does not involve the employee's supervisor, the
employee will discuss the problem with his or her supervisor. They will discuss
the conflict or concern and work on constructive steps to resolve the conflict
or concern together.
   (E)   If the problem is not satisfactorily resolved, the employee and
supervisor will discuss the problem with a department head, if applicable. They
will discuss the conflict or concern and work on constructive steps to resolve
the conflict or concern together.
   (F)   If the problem is not satisfactorily resolved, the employee,
supervisor and department head will discuss the problem with the Clerk/
Treasurer or the Mayor. They will discuss the conflict or concern and work on a
mutually acceptable resolution within five working days.
   (G)   The employee may submit a written statement to the Clerk/Treasurer or
the Mayor regarding the incident if the previous steps have not resolved the
conflict. The Clerk/Treasurer or the Mayor may include input from employees
with knowledge of the fact or concern. After any further discussion, and review
of the facts, the Clerk/Treasurer or the Mayor will attempt to work out a
mutually acceptable resolution within five working days after receiving the
written statement.
   (H)   In the event that a conflict or concern is not resolved, or the Clerk/
Treasurer or the Mayor does not respond, the employee may submit a written
statement to the Councilperson as the Council may designate to handle conflict
resolution matters who in his or her discretion may seek Council action on the
matter.
   (I)   In the event that the conflict or concern puts any employee’s safety
at risk, or there is an illegal activity taking place, the Clerk/Treasurer
should be contacted immediately. If the conflict or concern putting the
employee's safety at risk is caused by the Clerk/Treasurer, or the Clerk/
Treasurer is involved with an alleged illegal activity, the employee should
contact both the Mayor and Wright County Sheriff’s Department directly.
   (J)   Where a collective bargaining agreement provides conflict resolution
relief, initiation of the conflict resolution procedure herein does not stay or
delay the deadlines for notification under a collective bargaining agreement
unless the parties agree in writing to a delay.
   (K)   Where an employee has a conflict or concern involving a Councilperson,
the employee will raise that concern in the first instance with the Clerk/
Treasurer subject to review by the Council, the Clerk/Treasurer may initiate a
conflict resolution procedure involving that Councilperson, and may make such
modifications in the procedure as may be appropriate under the circumstances.
Where an employee alleges official misconduct, or other unlawful conduct by an
elected official, the Council shall assign responsibility for investigation and
shall determine the manner of review, with the advice of the City Attorney.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.20 COMPLAINTS REGARDING COUNCIL OR APPOINTIVE BOARD CONDUCT.
   (A)   The Council will appoint a committee of two of its members to
supervise the administration of complaints regarding the conduct of Council
members or members of appointed boards. Each member shall serve for a period of
two years with one of the members being initially appointed for a one-year
term. Thereafter, the membership of the committee will rotate, so that one new
member will be appointed each year. Whenever a complaint is directed to the
conduct of a Council member on the committee, the Council will replace that
Council member with an alternate on all proceedings on that matter.
   (B)   When a citizen (other than an employee) registers a complaint about
the conduct of a Councilperson, that complaint will be forwarded to the Clerk/
Treasurer, who will notify the committee and the party complained against of
the nature of the complaint. At the initial step, the Clerk/Treasurer will
contact the citizen and the party complained against and attempt to resolve the
matter informally. If the matter can be resolved informally, to the
satisfaction of the citizen, the Clerk/Treasurer will report to the committee
on the resolution of the complaint or concern.
   (C)   The Clerk/Treasurer’s conduct of conflict resolution under this
section will be subject to the review of the committee.
   (D)   If the Clerk/Treasurer is unable to resolve the complaint to the
satisfaction of the citizen, the Clerk/Treasurer will make a recommendation to
the committee as to whether further action by the committee may be appropriate.
The committee may meet with the person complained against, or jointly with the
complainant and person complained against, may designate an individual to
engage in mediation or conflict resolution, may recommend changes in behavior
or conduct, may determine that no action is appropriate, may refer the matter
to the City Attorney, may refer the matter to the entire Council for action or
may take such other action as may reasonably be appropriate.
   (E)   In all respects the actions of the committee are subject to the review
and direction of the full Council.
   (F)   In cases of repeated problems of a similar nature, where the committee
is unable voluntarily to obtain compliance with code of conduct standards, or
in extraordinary circumstances involving a single act of misconduct, the
committee may recommend that the Council publicly admonish or censure a Council
member.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.21 DISCIPLINE (CORRECTIVE ACTION); IN GENERAL.
   (A)   City employees covered by this code of conduct shall be subject to
disciplinary action for failing to fulfill their duties and responsibilities.
Certain city employees are employed at will; this subchapter does not alter the
at-will employment relationship of those employees. The city may terminate the
employment of an employee at will without resorting to disciplinary
proceedings. The conduct of disciplinary proceedings shall not waive or impair
the city's right to terminate an employee at will. This subchapter provides for
disciplinary action to redress violations of the provisions of this subchapter.
It does not limit the authority of the city as employer to discipline for other
reasons.
   (B)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall implement disciplinary and corrective action
in accordance with the city's personnel manual, or other disciplinary
procedures which may be adopted by the Clerk/Treasurer, subject to Council
review. The City Council reserves the right to amend, suspend or waive
provisions of the city's personnel manual and to adopt procedures appropriate
to a particular case.
   (C)   Evidence of the following acts are examples of cause that justify
disciplinary or corrective action under this subchapter:
      (1)   Negligence in the performance of duty;
      (2)   During the period of employment, a felony or gross misdemeanor
conviction, any conviction involving moral turpitude, or any conviction based
on abuse or misuse of employment powers, duties or responsibilities;
      (3)   Insubordination, including, but not limited to: refusal to obey a
lawful order which a superior is entitled to give and have obeyed; refusal to
do assigned work which thereby causes, or is likely to cause loss or injury to
the city or to the public; or, failure to observe legal or administrative
policies, standards, and procedures specifically including local, state and
federal safety and equal employment opportunities, duties and responsibilities;
      (4)   Inducing or attempting to induce an officer or any employee of the
city, including employees otherwise excluded from this code of conduct, to
commit an unlawful act, or to act in violation of any lawful and reasonable
administrative rule or order;
      (5)   Possession or use of intoxicating substances or narcotics while on
duty without a prescription from a licensed physician;
      (6)   Carelessness or negligence in the handling or control of city
property;
      (7)   Being habitually tardy or being absent from work without
permission;
      (8)   Dishonesty in the performance of employment duties and
responsibilities;
      (9)   Use of city time, equipment, or information for outside employment
or any other personal benefit, except to the extent authorized by the personnel
manual;
      (10)   Sexual harassment, discrimination, or engaging in verbal abuse or
violation of the city's personnel policy dealing with such matters;
      (11)   Violation of city policies, or other good and sufficient reasons
as determined by the Clerk/Treasurer;
      (12)   Making false or misleading or slanderous statements about city
employees or officers.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.22 WRITTEN DISCIPLINARY FORM.
   (A)   The personnel manual shall provide for a form upon which a supervisor
(including the Clerk/Treasurer) may initiate disciplinary action under this
subchapter. A supervisor may act upon the written complaint of another employee
or such other information as the supervisor believes may justify disciplinary
action.
   (B)   Supervisors will keep a record of all complaints or concerns in the
personnel file of the affected employee sufficient to show the nature of the
charge or concern and the manner in which the matter was handled and disposed
of. If the charge or concern is determined to be without merit, the file will
so reflect.
   (C)   An employee or citizen may file a formal written complaint alleging
misconduct by an employee covered under this code of conduct. The allegation
shall be handled under applicable law and procedures, including the Data
Practices Act.
   (D)   Where a formal written complaint is filed against an employee, within
72 hours of the date/time that the incident was initially reported, the
original complaint form will be forwarded to the department head that
supervises the accused employee. If the department head is the person being
accused or when accusations are made against appointed members of boards and
commissions, the completed complaint form shall be forwarded to the Clerk/
Treasurer. If the Clerk/Treasurer is the subject of the accusation, the
original complaint form shall be forwarded to the Council.
   (E)   Unless confidentiality is provided by law, the person specified in
division (D) above shall immediately forward a copy of the complaint form to
the accused employee/city official using Form 2 (Employee/Public Official
Notification).
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.23 SUSPENSION FROM DUTIES.
   (A)   City employees. The City Council may summarily suspend with or without
pay and relieve from duty an employee accused of misconduct pending an
investigation into the allegations. An employee normally shall be summarily
suspended when:
      (1)   He/she is under investigation for a felony crime when the proof is
great, or serious misconduct when the presumption is great.
      (2)   He/she is physically or mentally unable to perform duties
satisfactorily (as determined by his/her supervisor).
      (3)   No crime or misconduct is alleged, but activity resulting in death
or great bodily harm to a human being, due to its severe nature, requires
intense and prudent investigation.
   (B)   Members of boards and commissions. The City Council may suspend the
activities of appointed members of any board or commission pending an
investigation into alleged misconduct. Members of boards and commissions will
normally be suspended or censured for reasons found above.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.24 INVESTIGATIONS OF MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   Subject to direction by the Clerk/Treasurer, the department head, or
other person identified in §
32.20 (D), is responsible for the initial review and subsequent investigation
of a misconduct complaint. The Clerk/Treasurer may assign the investigation to
such other person as the Clerk/Treasurer deems appropriate under the
circumstances.
   (B)   If, during the course of the misconduct investigation, a possible
criminal violation is noted, a copy of the misconduct complaint and all
relevant information gathered to that point shall be forwarded to the police
department for appropriate action. Referral of the complaint for prosecution by
criminal authorities does not preclude the furtherance of disciplinary
sanctions imposed under this code of conduct.
   (C)   Any person who is subject to a misconduct investigation shall be
afforded all rights and protections provided by law, labor agreement, and
department/city policies.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.25 DISCIPLINARY REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Clerk/Treasurer may implement a progressive disciplinary process
designed to resolve disciplinary matters informally, at the supervisor level,
at the level of Clerk/Treasurer, or at the Council. All disciplinary actions
may be reviewed by the Council. No such process shall alter the at-will
employment status of employees at will.
   (B)   Notifications. When a department head or supervisor intends to
initiate disciplinary action, the department head will provide written notice
to the employee and will provide an informal opportunity to respond to the
proposed action.
   (C)   Whenever possible, the department head shall notify the employee of
the final disposition of the case no later than 30 business days after said
final disposition.
   (D)   If the employee agrees to a disciplinary action, the employee will
complete a written form acknowledging that agreement and waiving any right to a
hearing that may exist.
   (E)   If the employee disagrees with a disciplinary action, the employee may
seek review of the action under procedures established by the City Council. For
actions which do not involve termination, suspension without pay or other
discipline providing a direct financial loss to the employee, the employee has
the right to seek review by the City Council. For actions involving
termination, suspension without pay or other discipline providing a direct
financial loss to the employee, the employee may seek review by the City
Council.
   (F)   If an employee wishes to seek review at the next level, the employee
must file a written request for review within ten calendar days of the date of
the notice of discipline.
   (G)   The Clerk/Treasurer has authority to implement all forms of
discipline, subject to review by the Council, except termination. The Clerk/
Treasurer has authority to recommend termination, but implementation of a
termination decision requires Council action. If the Clerk/Treasurer recommends
a termination, the employee will be notified of the recommendation, and the
recommendation will also be conveyed to the Council. If an employee wishes to
appeal from a recommendation of disciplinary termination, the employee must
appeal within ten days of the date of the notice of termination. If the
employee fails to appeal, the Council may act summarily without further
proceedings, or it may conduct such further proceedings as it deems prudent. If
the employee does appeal a recommended termination for disciplinary reasons,
then the Council will proceed in accord with §
32.26. Nothing in this section limits the Council's authority to terminate
employees who are employed at will.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
§ 32.26 APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   For actions involving termination, suspension without pay or other
discipline providing a direct financial loss, the employee may appeal the
decision to the City Council by serving written notice to the Mayor within ten
business days after receipt by said individual of the written disposition form.
   (B)   The Mayor shall then arrange to have a confidential, initial personnel
hearing placed on the agenda for the next regularly scheduled Council meeting
or at a Special Council Meeting held solely for that purpose.
   (C)   The Council may proceed to resolve the dispute utilizing on the
written administrative record or by assigning the matter to a hearing officer
for recommended decision.
   (D)   Hearing officer procedure. Where the Council determines that the
taking of oral testimony or other evidence by a neutral examiner would aid the
Council, the Council may appoint a neutral examiner to take evidence and to
make a recommended decision. In its resolution appointing the neutral examiner,
the Council may establish the procedural requirements for the hearing. The
examiner's recommendation shall be presented to the Council, along with
whatever written record is maintained, for final determination by the Council.
   (E)   Hearing by Council on the record. The Council may determine to resolve
a dispute regarding discipline upon the written administrative record prepared
by the Clerk/Treasurer, and such written evidence including affidavits and
documentary evidence, as well as written argument submitted by the grieving
employee. If the Council adopts this procedure, the Council may establish the
procedural requirements, including time limits, for submission of information
to the Council. Unless the Council otherwise provides, the Council will not
receive oral presentations or argument.
(Ord. 09-02, passed 5-12-09)
CHAPTER 33: COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Establishment
   
33.02   Composition; membership terms
   
33.03   Organization and meetings
   
33.04   Powers and duties
Park Commission
   
33.35   Established
   
33.36   Membership
   
33.37   Meetings
   
33.38   Election of officers
   
33.39   Terms of office
   
33.40   Powers and duties
   
33.41   Salaries
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Planning Commission for the city is hereby established. The Commission
shall be the city’s planning agency.
(Ord. 302, passed - -; Am. Ord. 99-03, passed 12-14-99)
§ 33.02 COMPOSITION; MEMBERSHIP TERMS.
   (A)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members. Waverly
residency is a requirement of membership on the Commission. Five qualified
members shall be appointed by the City Council and may be removed by a majority
vote of the Council. One member of the Council shall be an ex-officio member.
The Council shall select alternate members of the Commission from among its own
members. The ex-officio member and alternate member(s) shall be appointed on an
annual basis at the first meeting of the City Council in January.
      (2)   The Council ex-officio member and alternate member of the Council
may act as voting commissioners when a quorum is not achieved due to the
absence of an appointed member or in the case of a tie vote.
   (B)   Of the members of the Commission first appointed, one shall be
appointed for the term of one year, one for the term of two years, one for the
term of three years and one for the term of four years. Additional members will
be appointed by the Council. Their successors shall be appointed for the term
of three years. The appointment will be made by the Council at the January
meeting following the expiration of the term of office. The terms of the ex-
officio members shall correspond with his or her official tenure. Vacancies
during the term shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired portion of the
term. Every appointed member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his
or her duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties
of his or her office. Members will serve with compensation of a rate per
meeting attended to be established and reviewed by the Council on an annual
basis and be recorded on the annual city fee schedule.
(Ord. 302, passed - -; Am. Ord. 99-03, passed 12-14-99; Am. Ord. 07-01, passed
1-9-07; Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 2-14-12)
§ 33.03 ORGANIZATION AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Commission shall elect the Chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of one year. The Commission may create and fill
other offices as it may determine. The Commission may appoint an Acting
Chairperson in the absence of the appointed Chairperson. A Planning and Zoning
Liaison will be reviewed annually as well as an annual appointment to the
position. The City Clerk/designee shall act as the Secretary of the Planning
Commission, but shall not be a member unless appointed by the Council to act in
the capacity of an alternate member of the Commission.
      (2)   Attendance at regularly scheduled meetings is mandatory. At least
75% of all scheduled meetings must be attended. If absences from meetings
exceed the requirement, and the absences are determined to be of an unnecessary
nature, the Commission may ask for the resignation of the member who has not
met the meeting attendance requirement.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. It
shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a record of
its resolutions, transactions and findings which record will be public record.
A monthly report will be made to the Council of all work, recommendations and
requests at the regular monthly Council meeting and will be given by a Planning
Commission representative/Chairperson or Acting Chairperson. The Clerk/
Treasurer will allocate funds to a budget for the Planning Commission.
Expenditures of the Commission shall be within the amounts appropriated for the
purpose by the City Council. A report of the expenditures will be included in
the monthly accounts payable list which is submitted for Council approval at
the regular Council meeting each month.
(Ord. 302, passed - -; Am. Ord. 99-03, passed 12-14-99; Am. Ord. 07-01, passed
1-9-07)
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall be the planning agency and shall have
the powers and duties given the agencies in M.S. §§ 462.351 through 462.365, as
it may be amended from time to time. It shall also exercise the duties
conferred upon it by this subchapter.
   (B)   No zoning ordinance or amendment thereto shall be adopted by the
Council until a public hearing has been held thereon by the Planning
Commission, upon notice as provided in M.S. §§ 462.351 through 462.365, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Any plat of land submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to
final approval, be referred to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation. Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission within 30 days, and failure of the Commission to report within the
period is deemed to have satisfied the requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 302, passed - -; Am. Ord. 99-03, passed 12-14-99)
PARK COMMISSION
§ 33.35 ESTABLISHED.
   A Park Commission is hereby created to plan, develop, and implement
improvements to the city parks system.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02)
§ 33.36 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Park Commission shall consist of a five-member board. Waverly residency
is a requirement of membership on the Commission. Five qualified members shall
be appointed by the City Council. The Maintenance Supervisor or designated
employee and one member of the City Council will serve as ex-officio members of
the Park Board. The Council member ex-officio will be appointed on an annual
basis at the first meeting of the City Council in January. The Deputy Clerk or
designated employee will serve as Secretary to the Board and shall have the
designation as alternate member. The Secretary/alternate member may serve as a
voting member if there is a lack of a quorum. The Council ex-officio member may
vote in the case of a tie or act as a voting member of the Board if there is a
lack of a quorum present at the meeting. Any City Council member may act as an
alternate member due to absence of regular Board members.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 1-8-08; Am. Ord. 12-01,
passed 2-14-12)
§ 33.37 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Attendance at regularly scheduled meetings in mandatory. At least 75%
of all scheduled meetings per calendar year must be attended. If absences from
meetings exceed the requirement and the absences are determined to be of an
unnecessary nature, the Commission may ask for the resignation of the member
who has not met the meeting requirement.
   (B)   The Park Commission shall meet on a monthly schedule. The monthly
meeting date will be determined at the first Council meeting in January on an
annual basis.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 04-02, passed 7-13-04)
§ 33.38 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Park Commission Board shall elect a Chairperson to serve a one-year term
of office. The Board shall also elect a recording Secretary to take minutes at
each meeting. The appointed Secretary shall also be designated as an alternate
member to the Board. When there is a lack of a quorum of voting members at a
regular monthly meeting, the Secretary shall be authorized to act as a member
of the Board with voting capacity. The Secretary shall be paid a salary which
will be paid with the quarterly salaries of the Commissioners.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 05-01, passed 2-8-05; Am. Ord. 07-01,
passed 1-9-07)
§ 33.39 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   During the first year of operation, the members shall serve the following
terms of office: one member for one year, one member for two years, one member
for three years, and one member for four years. The terms of office will run
for a three-year term thereafter. The term of office of the board member from
the Planning Commission will run concurrently with his or her Planning
Commission term. The Parks Superintendent and Council member will be appointed
on an annual basis by the City Council.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02)
§ 33.40 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Park Commission shall make formal recommendations for action to
the City Council.
   (B)   The Park Commissioners will be involved in planning for the
development of new park areas, specific upgrading of park facilities, and to
monitor and establish improvement programs for existing park facilities. The
Commission will be active in the implementation of planning for playground
equipment needs, building issues, and recreational uses. The Commission will
assess park facility needs, conduct research, and plan for improvements. The
Commission will work with developers to plan for the use of dedicated park land
and open space areas in new developments. As part of the overall planning for
park program implementation and park improvements, the Commissioners will
research funding options for park programs, construction projects, and
improvements.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02)
§ 33.41 SALARIES.
   The Park Commissioners will be paid for each meeting attended at a rate to
be set by the City Council and included on the fee schedule.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 1-8-02)
CHAPTER 34: CITY POLICIES
Section
   
34.01   Elections
   
34.02   Prerequisite for city action
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned Property, see
Ch. 91
   Code of conduct, see §§
32.15 et seq.
§ 34.01 ELECTIONS.
   The regular city election shall be held biennially on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November in every even-numbered year.
(Ord. 2.03, passed - -76)
§ 34.02 PREREQUISITE FOR CITY ACTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      REQUEST or OBLIGATIONS. All obligations, duties, debts and sums due by
the person requesting action including, but not exclusively, fees, utility
bills, special assessments, taxes, interest and penalties and other obligations
established by the city or promises made by the requestor to the city.
      REQUEST FOR CITY ACTION. Any request by any person or entity for the city
to take any action, including specifically, but not exclusively, the following:
conditional use permit, rezoning, plat approval, zoning amendment, variance,
building permit, business license, liquor license, charitable gambling license,
certificate of occupancy or utility connection or disconnection.
   (B)   The City Council shall not grant any request for city action until all
requestor obligations have been met by the person requesting city action.
   (C)   Before the City Council grants any request for city action, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall research the city records and shall determine whether the
person requesting city action has any requestor obligations which are not
current. The Clerk/Treasurer shall certify the results of the search to the
City Council at the same time the Council considers the request for city
action.
(Ord. 97-23, passed - -97)
CHAPTER 35: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
35.01   Fee schedule
§ 35.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
      (A)   A schedule of fees for city services, permits, and general fees is
hereby adopted as follows:
Fee Schedule
Services, permits, or general fees Fee
Fee Schedule
Services, permits, or general fees                                            Fee
Amusement centers and devices with four or more machines (annual)             $100
Ball park field lights—monthly rental:
   1 time per week                                                         $75
   2 times per week                                                        $125
   Special event                                                           $25
Bulk water users per fill per 1,000 gallons                                   $5.22
   Hydrant fees: Cost per day                                              $75
   Metered if long term
Charitable gambling permit                                                    $100
City staff time charge—hourly rate per person                               $25
Consultants (not at city’s request)                                         At their hourly rate
Demolition permits:
   Building inspectors fee                                                 $25.50
   Water/sewer inspection                                                  $30
   Hydrant fee for dust control—daily cost                               $75
   Water disconnection fee                                                 $25
   Water reconnection fee                                                  $25
   Administrative fee                                                      $19.50
   City staff time—hourly rate                                           $25
* Fees not used will be refunded if applicable.                                
Disconnection of water service                                                $25
Dog ordinance fees:
   License tags: 2 year term                                               $10
   Violation fines:
      Unlicensed animal                                                 $20
      Impound/transport 1st offense                                     $30
      Impound/transport following offenses                              $50
EDA Commissioner salaries—per meeting compensation (Quarterly payroll)      $25
Excavation permits/grading/filling over 10 cubic yards                        $75
Fax machine use—sending only                                                $2
Garbage collection fee (per quarter)                                           
   Weekly volume:                                                          Quarterly rate:
      30-gallon container                                               $30.60
                                                                              $15.30—Summer Res.
      90-gallon container                                               $45.90
                                                                              $22.95—Summer Res.
      Recycling                                                         $3 per quarter
Junk yard or junk business license (annual)                                   $300
Late payment penalty (utilities)                                              1.5% unpaid balance
Liquor license fees:
   Set up license (annual)                                                 $150
   Wine license (annual)                                                   $50
   Non intoxicating off sale (annual)                                      $10
   Non intoxicating on sale (annual)                                       $50
   Special one day event                                                   $10
   Intoxicating liquor license (annual)                                    $3,100-Feb. 2001
   (split liquor) for restaurants and hotels
Mayor/Council salaries—per meeting compensation as follows:
   Mayor (regular meeting)                                                 $60
   Council (regular meeting)                                               $50
   Mayor/Council (special meeting and all committee meetings)              (Monthly payroll)
Meter replacement (other than malfunction)                                    time and materials
Mileage reimbursement (at Federal rate)                                       36¢/mile
Non-sufficient funds check penalty                                            $20
Notary public: non-resident                                                   $1
Park Commissioner salaries—per meeting compensation (Quarterly payroll)     $25
Park dedication fee (subdivisions)                                            $1,200 per lot
Photocopies                                                                   $.10

(Per page for personal copies, does not include requests for city information
not exceeding 10 pages)
City Code/Land Use Plan/Housing Study/Zoning and Subdivision Ord or any city
booklet: per page fee                                                         $.25
Planning and zoning fees:
   Special meeting by request: Cost of meeting (Salaries of Commissioners,
Clerk/Treasurer, and the like)
   Rezoning base                                                           $75
   Conditional use (all districts)                                         $75
   Renewal or reconsideration of expired cond use permit: To be determined
   Variance: Single-family dwelling                                        $75
   Multiple-family/commercial                                              $75
   Appeals                                                                 $75
   Subdivision fees: Base fee, preliminary plat                            $100
   Each lot on the final plat (Not to exceed $500)                         $5
   Trunk watermain fee per acre calculated on total acreage in development $500
   Trunk sanitary sewer fee per acre calculated on total acreage in        $2,250
development
* Planning and zoning fees are non-refundable. Denial of any permit does not   
require the city of Waverly to return application fees.
Planning and zoning liaison salary—monthly (Quarterly payroll)              $50
Planning Commissioner salaries—per meeting compensation (Quarterly payroll) $25
Reconnection of water service                                                 $25
Sewer hook up                                                                 $2,500
Sewer rates: User fee per quarter:                                            $14.17
   Full time metered                                                       $2.66/1,000 (all
                                                                              gallons used)
                                                                              $56.70 flat fee
   Full time flat (Lake)                                                   (non-metered private
                                                                              water)
                                                                              $29.40 flat fee
   Part time flat (Lake)                                                   (non-metered private
                                                                              water)
                                                                              $1,232.65 flat fee
   Charter behav                                                           (non-metered private
                                                                              water)
                                                                              $49.59, $9.31/1,000
   Township (User fee per quarter)                                         (all gal used) (3.5
                                                                              times Res Rate)
                                                                              $29.40 first 10,615
   Part time metered                                                       gal then $2.66/1,000
                                                                              thereafter
                                                                              $56.70 first 10,615
   Full time metered (Lake)                                                gal then $2.66/1,000
                                                                              thereafter
   Commercial                                                              $2.66/1,000 (all
                                                                              gallons used)
Signs                                                                         $25
(The erection of business signs does not apply to billboards)
Billboard permit fee
                                                                              $150
Snow removal: minimum charge of $50 per occurrence, including sidewalks. If a $50
fee is not paid, it will be assessed.
Special Council meeting requested for a particular purpose not consistent
with the city’s schedule of meetings and not called for by the Mayor/City   $300
Council
Village Hall rental fees:
   Damage deposit                                                          $100
   Rental fee                                                              $200
   Funeral lunch                                                           $75
Water hook up                                                                 $2,500
Water meter fee (new construction)                                            $225
Water rates: (Quarterly)
   Commercial/residential                                                  $16 flat and $3.60/
                                                                              1,000
   Township                                                                $56 flat and $12.60/
                                                                              1,000
Waterfront park building rent                                                 $75
Damage deposit                                                                $75
Waverly flags                                                                 $55
Weed elimination:    City personnel (minimum of one hour)                  $75
Contractor
                                                                              At their hourly rate
 
   (B)   The fee schedule will be reviewed annually and amended by Council
action at the first meeting in January each year.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 1-8-02)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   URBAN STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
      
54.   STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
      
55.   PUBLIC UTILITY ACCOUNTS AND BILLING
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Purpose
   
50.03   Restricted deposit of refuse
   
50.04   Storage of garbage or refuse
   
50.05   Collection; contract
   
50.06   Service charge
   
50.07   Compost site
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All decomposable and putrescible solid wastes, including materials
resulting from the handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food, but
excluding human excrement, sewage and other water-carried wastes.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. All organic and inorganic wastes except garbage, resulting
from any manufacturing, building, repairing, demolition, construction,
processing, grain cleaning, the operation of garages and service stations and
other similar activities.
   PERSON. A natural person of either sex, co-partnerships, corporations and
associates of persons and the agent or manager of any of the aforesaid. The
singular number includes the plural and the masculine includes the feminine and
neuter.
   REFUSE. All noncombustible wastes including ashes, crockery, glass,
household rubbish, tin cans and all combustible wastes including grass, leaves,
paper, boxes, rags and old clothes; but does not include any material such as
earth, sand, brick, stone, plaster or other similar substances that may
accumulate as a result of construction operations. It also does not include
appliances, automobiles and automobile parts, tree limbs or flammable material
including gasoline and motor oil.
   RESIDENCE. A dwelling connected with the city water system and does not
include trailer courts, business firms, churches, schools or farms.
(Ord. 5.01, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-89)
§ 50.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain and protect the health, safety,
comfort and repose of the public by regulation of sanitation, storage,
collection, disposal and transportation of waste materials in and around the
city.
(Ord. 5.01, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-89)
§ 50.03 RESTRICTED DEPOSIT OF REFUSE.
   (A)   No person shall deposit, cause to be deposited or situate garbage,
refuse or containers for garbage or refuse upon any street, alley, vacated lot
or upon any ground appurtenant to any building in the city, except upon the
premises wherein the garbage or refuse originated.
   (B)   No person except as authorized shall transport garbage or refuse over
any street or alley in the city or shall disturb, collect or in any manner
interfere with garbage or refuse placed in containers for collection, or
interfere in any manner with containers for garbage or refuse.
(Ord. 5.01, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-89)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04 STORAGE OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   (A)   (1)   Except as otherwise provided, all garbage and refuse shall be
kept in rust resistant metal, water tight, nonabsorbent and easily washable
containers which are equipped with a bail or handles and covered with close
fitting lids.
      (2)   Insofar as practicable, all garbage shall be drained of liquids and
wrapped in paper.
   (B)   (1)   Containers shall have capacity of not less than ten nor more
than 32 gallons, nor exceeding 100 pounds in weight, unless otherwise approved,
and shall be provided in sufficient number to hold all garbage and refuse
accumulating between collections.
      (2)   All containers shall be washed and treated with disinfectant as
often as necessary to prevent a nuisance.
      (3)   All special containers must meet with the approval of the collector
herein based on sanitation, safety, weight limitations and ease of handling.
   (C)   The property owner or occupant shall control the garbage and refuse on
the premises so as to keep the premises in a clean and sanitary condition and
shall have the garbage and refuse removed at regular intervals, being at least
once each week.
(Ord. 5.01, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-89)
§ 50.05 COLLECTION; CONTRACT.
   (A)   (1)   The city shall provide for curbside collections of all garbage
and refuse from all city residences connected with the city water system,
apartment houses with three or less units and city trash containers on streets,
parks and swimming beach, once each week from November through April, and twice
each week from May through October.
      (2)   Containers shall be made easily accessible to the collector for
pickup on the days designated for collection by placing containers at the
street curb on the boulevard.
      (3)   All garbage and refuse shall be collected at least five times each
week from restaurants, hotels, taverns and other commercial establishments
except where the Building Inspector certified that less frequent collection
would not create a health menace or other nuisance.
      (4)   All garbage and refuse shall be transported on the streets and
alleys in the city only in leakproof packer trucks.
      (5)   Vehicles shall be so operated that contents do not spill or drip
upon streets or alleys or otherwise create a nuisance.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council shall contract, after receiving bids for such
purposes, for collection of all garbage and refuse from all residences,
businesses, churches, schools and multi-family housing units in the city on
terms and for periods as the Council may determine.
      (2)   The contract with the collector shall be based on a monthly payment
for a 36-month period.
      (3)   The collector shall keep accurate records of all his or her
collections.
      (4)   The collector shall furnish his or her own equipment and personnel
for the collection of garbage and refuse.
      (5)   The collector shall have at all times a registered office and
notify the City Clerk/Treasurer of any change in address of the office.
      (6)   The collector shall be the only authorized individual to collect
the garbage and refuse from all residences and multi-family housing units
within the city.
      (7)   The garbage and refuse so collected by the collector shall be
disposed of in a manner as provided by Minnesota Statutes and regulations, as
promulgated from time to time.
      (8)   The collector shall furnish a performance bond in an amount of the
annual payment under the contract, conditioned upon the satisfactory
performance of his or her contract.
      (9)   The independent contractor shall hold the city harmless and shall
defend and indemnify the city, and the city’s employees and agents, for any
claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to the work under the license.
The city shall be named as an additional insured under that insurance for the
services provided under the permit. The independent contractor’s contract of
insurance shall be the primary insurance for the city and the independent
contractor or insurance company shall provide a certificate of insurance which
verifies the existence of the insurance required, including provisions to hold
the city harmless and defend and indemnify the city. The insurance shall
provide coverage up to $300,000 for any single claim and $1,000,000 for any
number of claims in a single occurrence.
(Ord. 5.01, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-89; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 1-13-
04)
§ 50.06 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The city shall charge each dwelling served on the basis of service
rendered. The charge shall be determined by the Council, and the bill for the
charges shall be sent to the persons served on a quarterly basis with their
water bills or at other intervals as the Council shall determine.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to default in the payment of the
garbage or refuse collection fee. The City Council shall collect a fee thereon
from the person or the owner of the real estate by civil action or by assessing
of the same against the property.
   (C)   All income from the operation of the refuse and garbage collection
system and the record of expense and operation, shall be kept and maintained in
a separate city fund and account thereby designated as the Refuse Disposal
Fund.
(Ord. 5.01, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 1-10-89)
§ 50.07 COMPOST SITE.
   (A)   The city operates and maintains a compost site for the disposal of
leaves and small brush items by residents of the city.
   (B)   The following regulations govern the use of the facility:
      (1)   The compost site is available for use by city residents only.
Surrounding city/township residents are not authorized to use the facility.
      (2)   Commercial use is prohibited.
      (3)   Only leaves, grass clippings, and small brush three inches in
diameter or smaller are allowed. All other items are prohibited.
      (4)   Materials must be disposed of in an orderly manner in accordance
with signage at the facility as follows: Grass, leaves, and garden plants only
and placement of brush in the area indicated by signage; the city will chip. No
stumps allowed.
      (5)   The hours of operation are as follows: 5:00 a.m.- 10:00 p.m. daily.
      (6)   A security camera may be used to monitor suspicious activity and
identify unauthorized and inappropriate use of the facility.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 12-13-11) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine and/or
imprisonment as set forth in M.S. § 609.03, as it may be amended. Additionally,
the city may seek restitution for actual damages for staff time and other
actual costs incurred in remediating the unlawful use of the compost facility.
(Ord. 11-06, passed 12-13-11)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Restricted use
   
51.02   Application for service
   
51.03   Service connection; charges
   
51.04   Accounting, billing and collecting
   
51.05   Discontinuance of service
   
51.06   Supply from one service
   
51.07   Turning on water; tapping mains
   
51.08   Repair of leaks
   
51.09   Use of fire hydrants
   
51.10   Private water supplies
   
51.11   Water rates
§ 51.01 RESTRICTED USE.
   (A)   No person shall make or use any water service installation connected
to the city water system except pursuant to application and permit as provided
in this chapter. No person shall make or use any installation contrary to the
regulatory provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of water supply
threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and hours during
which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air
conditioning or other specified uses. After publication of the resolution or
two days after the mailing of the resolution to each customer, no person shall
use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and any customer
who does so shall be charged $3 for each day of violation and the charge shall
be added to his or her next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate
compliance with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the
delivery of a copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any
customer who has received the notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be
used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided
above. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
   (C)   No person shall permit city water to be used for any purpose except
upon his or her own premises except in an emergency and then only if written
permission is first obtained from the Utilities Superintendent. Anyone wishing
to obtain water from a hydrant for construction purposes shall make application
to the City Clerk/Treasurer for services.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.02 APPLICATION FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Application for a water service installation and for water service
shall be made to the Utilities Superintendent on forms prescribed by the City
Council and furnished by the city. The applicant, by his or her signature,
shall agree to conform to this chapter and to rules and regulations that may be
established by the city as conditions for the use of water.
   (B)   Application for a service installation shall be made by the owner of
the property to be served or by his or her agent. The applicant shall, at the
time of making application, pay to the city the amount of the fees or deposit
required for the installation of the service connection as provided in this
chapter. When a water service connection has been installed, application for
water service may be made either by the owner, his or her agent or by the
tenant or occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
§ 51.03 SERVICE CONNECTION; CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection required. The owner(s) of all houses, buildings, or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes
from which water is consumed, which is situated within the city and has
reasonable access to city water service shall be required at the owner(s)
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public water supply in
accordance with the provisions of this code. Said connection must be made
within ten days of the date said public water is operational. A lot has
reasonable access to water service if the lot is within 150 feet of the city
water system.
   (B)   No connection shall be made to the city water system without
authorization received from the Utilities Superintendent. The application shall
be in writing and shall contain an exact description of the property to be
served. The connection fee shall be as set forth in the city's fee schedule.
This fee shall be in addition to any fees required under division (C).
   (C)   When a connection requires installation of a service line from the
main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall assume all costs of
tapping the main, piping to the nearest curb and the installation of a curb
box. All service or other pipes to be laid in the streets, alleys or public
grounds shall be laid by or under the supervision of the Utilities
Superintendent. Any water user who has previously been connected with the water
system may be required by the City Council to apply for a new permit and to
assume all subsequent costs if extensions to the water system shall come closer
to the property served than the tap now serving the property or if the City
Council shall serve notice that the water pipe now serving the property has
become unsafe for use. When the new connection is needed or required, a credit
may be allowed the water user from the cost incurred at the discretion of the
Council. Should any application for connection to the city water system be
allowed for any lot, building or premises adjacent to the city water system,
the property owner shall be wholly responsible for the repair and costs of
repair of any improved streets which are affected by the grant of the
connection permit all repairs being subject to the approval of the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 4-11-17) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 51.04 ACCOUNTING, BILLING AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   The owner shall be liable for the water supplied to his or her
property, whether he or she is occupying the property or not, and any charges
unpaid shall be a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Water and sewer service charges shall be billed together. Bills shall
be mailed to the customers quarterly on or about the first day of each calendar
quarter and shall specify the water charges in accordance with the rates
established in this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   The amount of money listed on the city utility and garbage
statement shall be paid on or before the due date stated on the statement. The
City Council shall, by resolution, establish the amount of the penalty to be
paid by each owner, lessee or occupant of any premises provided with the
services if the payment for the services is delinquent more than 30 days.
      (2)   Delinquent accounts shall be certified to the City Clerk/Treasurer
who shall prepare an assessment roll each year providing for assessment of the
delinquent amounts against the respective properties.
      (3)   The assessment roll shall be delivered to the City Council for
adoption on or before October 1 of each year for certification to the County
Auditor for collection along with taxes.
   (D)   (1)   Delinquent utility customers who have utility bills which are 90
days past due shall be sent written notice of the city’s intent to disconnect
water service. The notice will provide a ten-day time frame in which the
customer may pay the delinquent amount to make the utility account current.
Failure to make the payment in the specified time frame, will authorize the
city to discontinue service to the delinquent customer by shutting off the
water at the stop box.
      (2)   No service of a residential customer shall be discontinued if the
disconnection affects the primary heat source for the residential unit when the
disconnection would occur during the period between October 15 and April 15,
the customer has declared inability to pay on forms provided by the city, the
household income of the customer is less than 185% of the federal poverty level
as documented by the customer to the city, and the customer’s account is
current for the billing period immediately prior to October 15 or the customer
has entered into a payment schedule and is reasonably current with payments
under the schedule. The city shall, between August 15 and October 15, of each
year, notify all residential customers of these provisions.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
§ 51.05 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The city may discontinue service to any water consumer without notice for
necessary repairs or upon notice, as provided in § 51.04 (D), for nonpayment of
charges or for violation of rules and regulations affecting utility service.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
§ 51.06 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one house or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by special permission of the Council.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.07 TURNING ON WATER; TAPPING MAINS.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on any water
supply at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply
system or insert a stop cock or other appurtenance therein without a city
permit.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.08 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   (A)   (1)   The consumer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the
service pipe from the curb box into the building served. If he or she fails to
repair any leak in the service pipe within 24 hours after notice by the city,
the city may turn the water off.
      (2)   The water shall not then be turned on again until the sum of $3 has
been paid to the city.
   (B)   When the waste of water is great or damage is likely to result from
the leak, the city shall turn the water off immediately upon the giving of
notice if repair is not commenced immediately.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
§ 51.09 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than an authorized city employee shall operate a fire
hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system without first
obtaining authority to do so from the Utilities Superintendent.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 51.10 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install a new private well,
regardless of the amount of water intended to be withdrawn from such well, on
any lot within city limits that has reasonable access to city water service.
New private wells are allowed on lots without reasonable access to city water
upon proof that approval for such well has been issued by the Minnesota
Department of Health. For such purposes, a lot within 150 feet of the city
water system shall be deemed to have reasonable access to water service.
   (B)   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected with
any pump, well, or tank that is connected with any other source of water
supply. When any such connection is found, the Maintenance Supervisor shall
notify the owner to sever the connection and if this is not done immediately,
the city shall turn off the water supply forthwith.
   (C)   Before any new connection to the city system is permitted, the
Department shall ascertain that no cross connection will exist when the new
connection is made.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98; Am. Ord. 17-04, passed 4-11-17; Am. Ord. 19-
02, passed 7-15-19)
§ 51.11 WATER RATES.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, establish the amount of the charge to
be paid by each owner, lessee or occupant of each premises connected with the
city water system. The cost of water meters shall also be established by
resolution by the City Council.
(Ord. 10.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. 1986-01, passed 9-8-86; Leg. No. passed 2-12-
91; Am. Ord. 98-04, passed 6-9-98)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
Use Regulations
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Utilities Superintendent; control
   
52.03   Connection required; regulations
   
52.04   Private wastewater disposal
   
52.05   Prohibited discharges
   
52.06   Maintenance
   
52.07   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.08   Control manholes
   
52.09   Measurements, sampling and reports
   
52.10   Power and authority of inspectors
   
52.11   Excess infiltration and inflow; discharge into sanitary sewers
prohibited
   
52.12   Point-of-sale certification of sanitary sewer service compliance
Rates and Charges
   
52.25   Definitions
   
52.26   Establishment of charge system
   
52.27   Determination of charges
   
52.28   Sewer Service Fund
   
52.29   Administration
USE REGULATIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC §§ 1251 et seq.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. The city or its duly authorized representative.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C. in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or COD. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
chemical oxidation of organic matter as determined by standard laboratory
procedures, and as expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY.
      (1)   The area within the corporate boundaries of the city, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
      (2)   The term CITY, when used herein, may also be used to refer to the
City Council and its authorized representative.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES/SDS
permit, which the treatment facilities are designed to treat to a degree which
complies with effluent concentration limits imposed by the permit.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FECAL COLIFORM. Any number of organisms common to the intestinal tract of
man and animals whose presence in sanitary sewage is an indicator of pollution.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state, such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not defined as a compatible
pollutant, including non-biodegradable dissolved solids.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any nongovernmental or nonresidential user of a publicly-owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through such means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW or I/I. The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water, other than wastewater, that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city’s wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city’s NPDES and/or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act or any
regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Clean Air
Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act or more stringent state criteria
applicable to the method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by the treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of the treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. A
permit issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may
legally discharge into navigable waters of the United States, pursuant to
Sections 402 and 405 of the Act.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration or during which the only pollutant added
is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 265 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 310 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter or solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than one-half inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is “wastewater.”
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewater from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   FORCE MAIN. A pipe in which wastewater is carried under pressure.
      (3)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (4)   PRIVATE SEWER. A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (5)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (6)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (7)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the wastewater treatment
facility which has a discharge flow:
      (1)   In excess of 25,000 gallons per average work day;
      (2)   That has exceeded 5% of the total flow received at the treatment
facility;
      (3)   Whose waste contains a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts pursuant to
Section 307(a) of the Act; and/or
      (4)   Whose discharge has a significant effect, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the wastewater disposal
system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent quality or emissions
generated by the treatment system.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration of any
given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes, more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely affect the collection
and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM PERMIT or SDS PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA, pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system, as
defined by M.S. § 115.01(8), as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Utilities Superintendent or a deputy, agent or
representative thereof.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering, as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects, as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges, causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city’s wastewater disposal system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances, extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
   WATERCOURSE. A natural or artificial channel for the passage of water,
either continuously or intermittently.
   WPCF. The Water Pollution Control Federation.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.02 UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; CONTROL.
   The Utilities Superintendent shall have control and general supervision of
all public sewers and service connections in the city and shall be responsible
for administering the provisions of this subchapter to the end that a proper
and efficient public sewer is maintained.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.03 CONNECTION REQUIRED; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit
to be deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within
the city, or in any area under its jurisdiction, any human or animal excrement,
garbage or objectionable waste. All houses, buildings or other properties used
for human habitation, employment or recreation shall have suitable sanitary
(toilet and sink) facilities.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any
wastewater or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been
provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the
city’s NPDES/SDS permit.
      (3)   Except as provided in §
52.04, it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater.
      (4)   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is
discharged, and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street,
alley or right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be
located, a public sanitary sewer of the city, shall be required at the owner’s
expense to install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in
accordance with provisions of this chapter, within six months of the date the
public sewer is operational, providing the public sewer is within 150 feet of
the boundary of the property generating the wastewater.
      (5)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer
within 30 days of notice given under
§ 52.03(D), the city may undertake to have toilet and sink facilities
installed, and the city shall assess the cost against the benefitted property.
The assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the rate determined by the
City Council and shall be certified to the County Auditor and shall be
collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for local
improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition to any remedial or
enforcement provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any new connection(s) to the sanitary sewer system shall be
prohibited unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities
including, but not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as
determined by the Superintendent.
      (2)   No unauthorized person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with
or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
      (3)   Applications for permits shall be made in writing by the owner or
authorized agent and the person employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street address of the building to be connected and how
occupied. The permit application shall be accompanied by an application fee as
set by the City Council. No person shall extend any private building drain
beyond the limits of the building or property for which the service connection
permit has been given.
      (4)   Any person desiring a permit to make a service connection with
public sewers shall furnish in writing to the City Council satisfactory
evidence that the applicant or person employed to do the work is trained or
skilled in the business of sewer installation. All applications shall be
referred to the Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If approved
by the Council, the permit shall be issued by the City Clerk/Treasurer upon the
filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
      (5)   (a)   No permit shall be issued to any person until a $500 bond to
the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. The
bond shall be conditioned that the permittee will indemnify and save harmless
the city from all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any
opening in any street, alley or public ground, made by the permittee or by
those in the permittee’s employment; and that the permittee will replace and
restore the street and alley over the opening to the condition existing prior
to installation, adequately guard excavations with barricades and lights, and
shall conform in all respects to the rules and regulations of the Council.
         (b)   In lieu of the bond, a certified check payable to the city may
be furnished to be held by the city, provided the necessary indemnification is
also provided.
         (c)   The bond or certified check will be returned to the permittee
upon approval of all work by the Superintendent.
      (6)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits; one for
residential and commercial service and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
      (7)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and
connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s)
shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may be directly or
indirectly occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (8)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for
every building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection aforementioned.
      (9)   Old building sewers may not be used in connection with new
buildings, except when they are found, on examination and test by the
Superintendent or his or her representative, to meet all requirements of this
chapter.
      (10)   The size, slopes, alignment and materials of construction of a
building sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the
requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code, the Uniform Plumbing Code
and applicable rules and regulations of the city.
      (11)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
sanitary sewage carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved
means and discharged to the building sewer.
      (12)   No person(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
      (13)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code, the
Uniform Plumbing Code and applicable rules and regulations of the city. All
connections shall be made gastight and watertight, and verified by proper
testing to prevent the inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the
prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the city prior to
installation.
      (14)   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the city
when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public
sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made under the supervision of the
Superintendent or his or her authorized representative thereof.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.04 PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of
§ 52.03 (A)(4), the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater
disposal system complying with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Prior to commencement of construction of a private wastewater disposal
system, the owner(s) shall first obtain a written permit signed by the city.
   (C)   The application for the permit shall be made in writing by the owner,
authorized agent or person employed to do the work. The application shall state
the name of owner, street address of the building to be connected and how
occupied. The application shall be accompanied by a sketch showing property
lines, location of all structures, private wells and existing sewer systems.
The sketch shall be to scale, show applicable dimensions and distances, and be
supplement by any plans, specifications and other information as are deemed
necessary to the city. The permit application shall be accompanied by an
application fee as set by the City Council.
   (D)   Any person desiring a permit to install a private wastewater disposal
system shall furnish in writing to the City Council satisfactory evidence that
the applicant or person employed to do the work is trained or skilled in the
business of sewer installation.
   (E)   A permit for a private wastewater disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city
or its authorized representative. The city or its representative shall be
allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction, and, in any event,
the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when work is ready for final
inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The inspection
shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice.
   (F)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater
disposal system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Ch. 7080, as
it may be amended from time to time, entitled, “Individual Sewage Treatment
System Program.” No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to
any natural outlet.
   (G)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property serviced
by a private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to
the public sewer within six months in compliance with this chapter. Within
seven days thereafter any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
wastewater disposal systems shall be cleaned of sludge, the bottom shall be
broken to permit drainage, and the tank or pit filled with suitable material.
   (H)   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater
disposal facilities in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the
city.
   (I)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Department of Health of the state.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.05 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted
water such as storm water, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or
noncontact cooling water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
the sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural outlet
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling water or
unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or natural outlet
on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a discharge
permit by the MPCA.
   (C)   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the
following described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include, but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater
treatment facilities such as, but not limited to grease, garbage with particles
greater than one-half inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, manure,
bones, hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes,
cinders, sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings,
grass clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic,
asphalt residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating
oil, mud or glass griding or polishing wastes.
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act.
   (D)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The Superintendent may set
limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below if, in
his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet the above
objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of wastes,
the Superintendent will give consideration to the factors as the quantity of
subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials of
construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, the city’s
NPDES and/or SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant, degree of
treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant and other pertinent
factors. The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Superintendent are as follows:
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150° F., or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104° F. (40°
C.), or having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the
wastewater treatment works resulting in interference therein;
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° F. and 150° F. (0° C.
and 65° C.); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of
mineral origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not;
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a
“slug,” as defined herein;
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in
§ 52.01; (Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food on the
premises or when served by caterers.)
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair;
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions;
      (7)   Noncontact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water;
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or wastewater
containing dissolved solids (such as, but not limited to sodium chloride and
sodium sulfate) in quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater
disposal system;
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or
concentration as may exceed limits established by the Superintendent in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works in excess of the following limits for the materials:
         (a)   15.0 mg/l, aluminum;
         (b)   400.0 mg/l, ammonia;
         (c)   0.1 mg/l, arsenic;
         (d)   100.0 mg/l, borate;
         (e)   10.0 mg/l, cadmium;
         (f)   10.0 mg/l, chromium (total);
         (g)   1.0 mg/l, copper;
         (h)   5.0 mg/l, cyanide;
         (i)   0.1 mg/l, lead;
         (j)   5.0 mg/l, mercury;
         (k)   2.5 mg/l, nickel;
         (l)   10.0 mg/l, zinc; and
         (m)   200.0 mg/l, phenolic compounds.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency or state or federal regulatory body; and/or
      (12)   Any waters of wastes containing BOA5 or suspended solids of the
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions herein.
   (E)   (1)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in
§ 52.05(D), and/or which in the judgement of the Superintendent, may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes or
equipment, receiving waters and/or soil, vegetation and ground water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act and all addendums
thereof;
         (c)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
      (2)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment
shall be made at the owners’ expense, and shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
   (F)   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner,
attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in
§ 52.03, or contained in the national categorical pretreatment standards or any
state requirements.
   (G)   (1)   The owner of any property serviced by a sanitary sewer shall
provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited materials or
other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary, facilities to
prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s expense. Detailed plans showing facilities and
operating procedures to provide this protection shall be submitted to the
Superintendent for review and approval prior to construction of the facility.
      (2)   Review and approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not
relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as
necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users shall notify the
Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or accidental discharge of
substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter to enable countermeasures
to be taken to minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   The notification will not relieve any user of any liability for any
expense, loss or damage to the wastewater treatment system or treatment
process, or for any fines imposed on the city on account thereof under any
state and federal law. Employers shall insure that all employees who may cause
or discover a discharge are advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (H)   No person, having charge of any building or other premises which
drains into the public sewer, shall permit any substance or matter which may
form a deposit or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer.
   (I)   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or
out of order, detrimental to the use of the public sewer or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done as the
Superintendent may direct. Each day after ten days that a person neglects or
fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this section, and the
Superintendent may then cause the work to be done, and recover from the owner
or agent the expense thereof by an action in the name of the city.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 52.06 MAINTENANCE.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owners.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.07 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided at repair garages,
gasoline stations, car washes or other establishments where they are necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in
excessive amounts, as specified in
§ 52.05(D), any flammable wastes, as specified in
§ 52.05 (C), sand or other harmful ingredients. The interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be responsible for
the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.08 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control manhole, with
the necessary meters and other appurtenances to facilitate observation,
sampling and measurement of wastes. The structure shall be accessible and
safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The structure shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense
and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and accessible at all times.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.09 MEASUREMENTS, SAMPLING AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special condition for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that compliance with federal, state and local standards are being
met. The owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses
to the city at the times and in the manner as prescribed by the city. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by
the city. At the times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and samples for analysis by an independent laboratory.
   (B)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters
and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Superintendent.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.10 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observations, measurement, sampling
and testing pertinent to the discharges to the city’s sewer system in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are authorized
to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a direct
bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential. The
industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the information in
question might result in an advantage to competitors.
   (C)   While performing necessary work on private properties, the
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
   (D)   The Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purpose of, but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement, shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly
negotiated easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Ord. 10.04, passed 6-28-88; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 2-10-98)
§ 52.11 EXCESS INFILTRATION AND INFLOW; DISCHARGE INTO SANITARY SEWERS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. The Council finds that the discharge of water from roofs,
down spouts, eave troughs, rain spouts, yard drains, surfaces, groundwater,
sump pumps, footing tiles or swimming pools, foundation drains, yard fountains,
ponds, cistern overflow, areaway drains, and other means of transmitting
natural precipitation and surface waters, collectively referred to as excess
infiltration and inflow (I & I), into the sanitary sewer system will and has in
the past overloaded the sanitary sewer system. The Council, therefore, finds it
essential for orderly growth in the community, fiscal responsibility, and
compliance with city code requirements that the provisions of this section be
strictly enforced.
   (B)   Prohibition against discharges into sewer system. No water from any
roof, down spout, eave trough, rain spout, yard drain, surface, groundwater,
sump pump, footing tile or swimming pool, foundation drain, yard fountain,
pond, cistern overflow, areaway drain, or other natural precipitation shall be
discharged into the sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and structures
which require, because of infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces
and the like, a sump pump discharge system shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge into the sewer system,
except as provided herein. A PERMANENTLY INSTALLED DISCHARGE LINE must be
connected to the city's storm sewer drainage system if connection is available
at the property line. If connection to the city's storm sewer drainage system
is not available at the property line, a permanently installed discharge line
must provide for year-round discharge capacity to an appropriate drainage area
on the outside of the dwelling, building or structure (in no event shall such a
drainage area include property owned by others). If connection to the city's
storm sewer drainage system later becomes available, the line must be connected
within months of notice by the city. The permanently installed discharge line
shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or quick connections
for altering the path of discharge. It shall not be capable of connection or
reconnection to the sewer system.
   (C)   Disconnection. Within 90 days of notice from the city, any person
having a roof surface down spout, cave trough, rain spout, yard drain, surface,
groundwater, sump pump, footing tile or swimming pool, foundation drain, yard
fountain, pond, cistern overflow, areaway drain now connected and/or
discharging into the sewer system shall immediately disconnect and/or remove
same. Any disconnects or openings in the sewer system shall be closed in an
effective, workmanlike manner, as approved by the Director of Public Works. If
a city drain tile or storm sewer system is available to the property,
connection of said discharges to these systems shall be mandatory.
   (D)   Compliance and inspection. Every person owning improved real estate
that discharges into the city's sewer system shall comply with the requirements
of this section within 90 days of notice from the city. Within 30 days after
notice from the city, the property owner shall contact the City Maintenance
Department to schedule an inspection, at no cost to the property owner, of each
building and the utility service lines located on such property by an inspector
designated by the city. The purpose of this inspection shall be to confirm that
there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sewer system. In
lieu of having the city inspect such property, the property owner may, at the
property owner's expense, furnish a certificate from a licensed plumber, in a
form acceptable to the city, certifying that the property is in compliance with
this section.
   (E)   Additional inspections. The city may require any building be re-
inspected if a violation is suspected or the building is listed for sale.
Additionally, the city may perform random inspections in an amount and
frequency determined by the city to be appropriate. Any property found not to
be in compliance upon re-inspection, or any person refusing to allow their
property to be re-inspected within 30 days after receipt of written notice from
the city requiring re-inspection shall be subject to the nonrefundable charge
set forth in division (H).
   (F)   New building inspections. All new buildings will be required to have
their sump pump system inspected and be in compliance with this section and be
connected to the city storm sewer through the drain tile connection stub
provided prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. Refer to the
Subdivision Ordinance for the requirement of connecting sump pump systems to
the city storm sewer during construction.
   (G)   Waivers. The city shall have the power and duty of hearing and
deciding request for waivers from the applicability of the provisions of this
section where strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration or cause a
safety problem. This may also include cases where it would not be practical or
feasible to correct an otherwise prohibited discharge in the city's sewer
system.
      (1)   Application for waivers pursuant to this section shall be addressed
in writing to the Planning Commission. The applications shall at a minimum
identify the subject property, the name of the property owner/applicant, and
describe in detail what characteristics of the subject property create an undue
hardship. Within a reasonable time the Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation on the matter and refer the application to the Council for
determination.
      (2)   Upon approval of an application for a waiver, a property owner
shall be allowed to discharge directly into sewer system for a limited time
specified in the written decision and in accordance with other terms and
conditions specified. The applicant will be required to pay an additional fee
for the additional sewer service, along with the regular monthly charge. Fees
for this service will be based on estimated yearly average amounts discharged
into the sewer system. Other non-compliance waivers granted will be in effect
until the property is sold and the title is transferred. The written decision
will be recorded at the county and become part of the property title. The
approval will automatically expire upon sale or transfer of the property title.
The application fee will include recording fees that will be incurred as a part
of this process.
   (H)   Surcharge. A surcharge in the amount set forth in the city's fee
schedule shall be added to every sewer bill mailed to property owners who have
not demonstrated compliance with this section or have not obtained an
inspection required by this section within 90 days after notice by the city.
The surcharge shall be added every month thereafter for properties not
complying with this section until the property owner submits proof to the
Maintenance Supervisor that the property is brought into full compliance. The
full amount of the surcharge shall apply regardless of whether the non-
compliance has been for the entire month or a portion of it. If the surcharge
is not paid, the city may certify delinquent bills to the county pursuant to
the procedures set forth in the city code.
(Ord. 11-03, passed 10-11-11; Am. Ord. 17-01, passed 4-11-17)
§ 52.12 POINT-OF-SALE CERTIFICATION OF SANITARY SEWER SERVICE COMPLIANCE.
   The City Council of the city does ordain as follows:
   (A)   No property owner with a connection to the city sanitary sewer shall
sell, convey, advertise for sale, give or transact a change in title or
property ownership of real property without first obtaining a certificate from
the city indicating compliance with the city's statutory sewer regulations,
including regulations regarding the discharge of clear water.
   (B)   Unless the property owner already has a certificate of compliance for
a property, the owner or owner's representative is required to apply for a
certificate and complete an inspection thereof before such property is offered
for sale, gifted or transferred, and before the owner or owner's representative
enters into any purchase agreement, contract for deed or similar transaction.
If the property owner already has a certificate of compliance which is more
than three years old, a new sump pump inspection is required for all properties
containing sump pumps.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a properly executed application for Certificate of
Sanitary Sewer Compliance, the Public Works Supervisor shall determine whether
the private service line is in compliance with city guidelines. The sanitary
service shall be deemed to be in compliance with city guidelines for sanitary
services if the sanitary line is in proper working order, as demonstrated by
televising the sanitary service to the city's sanitary sewer line; also there
shall be no sump pumps, roof drains, foundation drains or other non-domestic
sewer connection to the sanitary line. The applicant shall be responsible for
the cost of and scheduling of the inspection. The entire property and all
buildings on the property shall be made available for inspection.
   (D)   The city shall maintain a list of contractors that are approved by the
Maintenance Supervisor to perform the Certificate of Sanitary Sewer Compliance
inspection.
   (E)   If an inspection discloses that use of a property is not in accordance
with city sanitary sewer regulations, a correction notice may be issued by the
city permitting the transfer of the property, providing:
      (1)   An agreement by the owner or owner's representative has been
executed with the city, whereby the owner or owner's representative agrees to
complete correction to the property necessary to bring it within compliance of
the city sanitary sewer regulations within 60 days of the transfer of property
or within corrective action dates approved at the discretion of the Maintenance
Supervisor.
      (2)   A financial security to ensure completion of any corrections to the
property must be posted with the closing agent in the form of an escrow, or
with the city when a closing agent is not involved, at the time of property
transfer of closing. The security shall be in an amount at least equal to 125%
of the estimated cost of the work necessary for compliance with this division.
The escrow must be fully maintained until a certificate of compliance is
issued. A correction notice shall not be issued for more than 180 days
following the first inspection of the property, but it may be extended for
additional periods up to 180 days each by the City Clerk/Treasurer for good
cause.
      (3)   The owner or transferor and any real estate agents involved in the
transaction are responsible for disclosing the correction notice to the
transferee and all other persons or entities involved in the transaction. The
responsibility for repairing any nonconformance with the sanitary sewer
regulations is a personal obligation of the owner and also runs with the land
and becomes a joint and several obligation of the owner and the transferee of
the property.
   (F)   A Certificate of Sanitary Sewer Compliance issued under this section
shall be effective for three years. Once a sewer line has been televised and
the line is deemed to be in good working order by the Maintenance Supervisor,
the line does not need to be re-televised for 10 years.
   (G)   For houses constructed in the past ten years, the Maintenance
Supervisor may, at his or her discretion, approve the Certificate of Sanitary
Sewer Compliance without requiring televising the service line. A walk-through
inspection will still be required.
   (H)   Property owners not in compliance with this section will be charged a
monthly surcharge.
   (I)   Penalty. A surcharge of $100 per month is hereby imposed and added to
every sewer billing to property owners who are not in compliance with this
section. The surcharge shall be levied monthly on properties not complying with
this section. This charge shall cease when the property has been inspected and
acceptable certification of compliance is submitted to the city.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 6-9-15)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 52.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (such as billing, associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND or BOD5. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20° C., expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city, as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein, the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
   COMMERCIAL WASTEWATER. Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of
business as district from industrial wastewater.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than
domestic waste, as defined herein, and not otherwise classified as an
incompatible waste.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Users which are units, agencies or instrumentalities of
federal, state or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   Entities that discharge into a publicly-owned wastewater treatment
works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industrial or
manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural resources.
These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972,
Office of Management and Budget, as amended and supplemented under one of the
following divisions:
         (a)   Division A, Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B, Mining;
         (c)   Division D, Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E, Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas and
Sanitary Sewers; and
         (e)   Division I, Services.
      (2)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics:
         (a)   BOD 5 less than 265 mg/l and suspended solids less than 310 mg/
l; and
         (b)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly-owned treatment works
which discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic
pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any
municipal systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment
process, or which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public
nuisance or creates a hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters
receiving any discharge from the treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade or business including but not limited to all
Standard Industrial Classification Manual Division A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Users other than commercial, governmental, industrial or
residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is primarily produced
by residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 265 mg/l and
total suspended solids (TSS) concentrations not greater than 310 mg/l.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM. A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or
building is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached and semi- detached housing, apartments and
mobile homes; and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary
wastes.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city’s wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24-hour concentration
of flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL. Office of Management and Budget,
1972.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS or SS or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS or TSS. The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants, as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the
Act, which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER.
      (1)   The spent water of a community, also referred to as “sewage.”
      (2)   From the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants and institutions together with any ground water, surface
water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
(Ord. 10.03, passed 6-28-88)
§ 52.26 ESTABLISHMENT OF CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the user’s proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   (1)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater
treatment facility shall be determined and fixed in a sewer service charge
system developed according to the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The sewer service charge system shall be adopted by resolution upon
enactment of this chapter, shall be published in the local newspaper, and shall
be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in the sewer service charge
system shall be adopted by Council resolution and shall be published in the
local newspaper.
   (E)   (1)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a
separate fund known as the Sewer Service Fund.
      (2)   Income from revenues collected will be expended to offset the cost
of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement for the facility and to
retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the Sewer Service Fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of
§ 52.29.
(Ord. 10.03, passed 6-28-88)
§ 52.27 DETERMINATION OF CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the wastewater treatment works shall be identified as
belonging to one of the following user classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Commercial;
         (c)   Industrial;
         (d)   Institutional; and
         (e)   Governmental.
      (2)   The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the City Clerk/Treasurer. Allocation of users to user classes shall be based on
the substantive intent of the definitions of these classes contained herein.
   (B)   (1)   The user shall pay operation, maintenance and replacement costs
in proportion to the user’s proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and
loadings to the treatment plant.
      (2)   The minimum rate for loadings of BOD and of TSS being the rate
established for normal domestic wastewater (such as concentrations of 265 mg/
l BOD and 310 mg/l TSS).
   (C)   (1)   Unit costs for treatment of flow, BOD and TSS shall be
determined and fixed annually in the sewer service charge system according to
the following procedure:
         (a)   Determine the annual OM&R budget;
         (b)   Allocate total annual OM&R costs to flow, BOD and TSS
proportionately, according to the costs of collection, and of the specific
treatment processes required to affect or reduce flow, BOD and TSS; and
         (c)   Divide the OM&R costs attributable to flow, BOD and TSS
respectively, by the total annual billable volume and loadings of flow, BOD and
TSS, to arrive at unit costs.
      (2)   For the purposes of determining user charges, the following
definitions of unit costs shall apply:
         (a)   UF equals the unit cost for treatment of flow in $/1,000
gallons.
         (b)   UBOD equals the unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
         (c)   UTSS equals the unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
   (D)   (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume
of metered water usage. For residential users, the per quarter billable flow
shall be equal to quarterly metered water usage as averaged between the first
and last quarters of the calendar year. For nonresidential users discharging
normal domestic strength wastewater, billable flow shall be equal, to quarterly
water usage averaged throughout the year.
         (b)   All residential sewer users served by the city water utility
shall have meters for measuring water usage. All nonresidential users shall
have meters for measuring flow. Residential sewer users not served by the water
utility shall have an estimated water usage assigned annually by City Council
resolution. Water usage shall be estimated as outlined in
§ 52.29.
         (c)   The billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated from the
volume of metered water usage, as determined above, where the billable
quantities will be those attributable to a wastewater concentration of 265 mg/
l BOD and 310 mg/l TSS (such as “normal domestic strength wastewater”).
      (2)   Calculating user charges.
   UC(NDS) = (UF X F) + (UBOD X KBOD X F) + (UTSS X KTSS X F )
         (a)   UC(NDS) equals the user charge for treatment of normal domestic
strength wastewater.
         (b)   UF equals the unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal.
         (c)   F equals the billable flow in Kgal.
         (d)   UBOD equals the unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb.
         (e)   KBOD equals the constant used to calculate the quantity of BOD
in lbs./Kgal. of normal domestic strength (NDS) waste (265 mg/l BOD) as
follows:
   KBOD = .00834 x 265 mg/l (BOD concentration of NDS waste)
         (f)   UTSS equals the unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
         (g)   KTSS equals constant used to calculate the quantity of TSS in
lbs./Kgal. of NDS waste (310 mg/l TSS) as follows:
   KTSS = .00834 x 310 mg/l (TSS concentration of NDS waste)
   (E)   (1)   Calculating billable flows and loadings.
         (a)   The billable amount of flow will be calculated from the volume
of metered water usage, or at the discretion of the city, from the measurement
of effluent flow at user’s point of discharge. Measurements shall be according
to a regular program prescribed by the city.
         (b)   The billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated by the
measurement of these wastes according to a program prescribed by the city in
keeping with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater and in accordance with other applicable ordinances and
regulations of the city.
      (2)   Calculating user charges.
   UC (GNDS) = (UF X F) + (UBOD X QBOD) + (UTSS X QTSS)
         (a)   UC(GNDS) equals the user charge for treatment of wastewater that
is greater than normal domestic strength.
         (b)   UF equals the unit cost for treatment of flow in $/Kgal.
         (c)   F equals billable flow in Kgal.
         (d)   UBOD equals the unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lbs.
         (e)   QBOD equals the quantity of BOD in lbs.
         (f)   UTSS equals the unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb.
         (g)   QTSS equals the quantity of TSS in lbs.
   (F)   The city may, at its discretion require nonresidential users to
install wastewater flow meters or additional water meters as may be necessary
to determine wastewater volume. The city may require residential connections to
install water meters for the purpose of determining wastewater volume. When so
required, the meters shall be of a type approved by the city equipped with
remote registering recorders, and located at an accessible site on the owner’s
property.
   (G)   (1)   Local construction cost for the wastewater treatment facility
will be recovered by ad valorum taxes and special assessment. The portion of
the local construction cost attributable to reserve capacity will be paid by
the “ad valorum” tax, and the remainder will be paid by special assessments of
users.
      (2)   As new users are added to the system, each new user will be
assessed the amount of this special assessment and the “ad valorum” tax will be
reduced a proportional amount. The amount of assessment shall be computed based
on equivalent residential units (ERUs). Each single-family residential user
shall be considered one ERU be assigned a number of ERUs based on water usage
(actual or estimated), and estimated wastewater strength. The assessment shall
be calculated as follows:
   AC = AT X ERU
      Total ERU's
         (a)   AC equals the amount of the assessment.
         (b)   AT equals the total amount to be specially assessed.
         (c)   ERU equals the number of ERUs for the unit.
         (d)   Total ERUs equals the total number of ERUs connected to the
treatment facility.
      (3)   The number of ERUs will be computed according to the following
formula:
ERUs = (0.50) Quarterly Flow + (0.25) Quarterly BOD Load + (0.25) Quarterly TSS
Load  
      20,500       45.3 lbs BOD          53.0 lbs. TSS
      (4)   Flows, BOD load and TSS load will be based on actual loadings for
the previous eight quarters if available. If data is not available, a best
estimate of loadings shall be used.
(Ord. 10.03, passed 6-28-88)
§ 52.28 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   (1)   The city hereby establishes the “Sewer Service Fund,” as an
income fund to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge
system, and all other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance,
replacement and construction of the wastewater treatment works, including
taxes, special charges, fees and assessments intended to retire construction
debt.
      (2)   The city also establishes the following accounts as income and
expenditure accounts within the Sewer Service Fund:
         (a)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
         (b)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
         (c)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   (1)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the Clerk/
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city.
      (2)   Funds received by the Sewer Service Fund shall be transferred to
the Operation and Maintenance Account, the Equipment Replacement Account and
the Debt Retirement Account in accordance with state and federal regulations
and the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
insure adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the
Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement Account shall remain in
the Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system for operation and
maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and Maintenance
Account.
(Ord. 10.03, passed 6-28-88)
§ 52.29 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts
suitable for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement
and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City
Council with a report of the costs annually.
      (2)   The City Council shall annually determine whether or not sufficient
revenue is being generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the treatment works, and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The Council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user in
accordance with
§ 52.26 and Section 204(b)(2)(A) of the Federal Water Pollution Control act, as
amended.
      (3)   The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end of the year,
reassess and as necessary revise the sewer service charge system then in use to
insure the proportionality of the user charges and to insure the sufficiency of
funds to maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were
constructed, and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to
document compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a quarterly basis
succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due 30
days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 30 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. At that time the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed as 12% of the original bill
on an annual basis.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
the premises and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only upon
the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the city.
   (F)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxic or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the
wastes, at no expense to the city.
   (G)   (1)   Annually the City Clerk/Treasurer will compute the average water
usage to all residential users of the water utility. This average shall be used
by the Council to assign the estimated water usage for residential users not
served by the water utility, which shall be used to compute the user charges
described in
§ 52.27(C).
      (2)   At least 30 days prior to the meeting at which the Council intends
to set estimated water usage for residential sewer users not served by the
water utility, all the users shall receive written notice of the meeting. The
notice shall advise each of these users the amount assigned as their estimated
usage and the average usage of the residential users served by the water
utility.
(Ord. 10.03, passed 6-28-88)
CHAPTER 53: URBAN STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Scope
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Storm water pollution control plan
   
53.05   Review
   
53.06   Modification of plan
   
53.07   Financial securities
   
53.08   Notification of failure of the storm water pollution control plan
   
53.09   Variance
   
53.10   Right of entry and inspection
   
53.11   Appeals
   
53.12   Area hydrologist offices
   
53.13   Regional fisheries offices
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to control or eliminate storm water pollution
along with soil erosion and sedimentation within the city. It establishes
standards and specifications for conservation practices and planning
activities, which minimize storm water pollution, soil erosion and
sedimentation.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.02 SCOPE.
   Except where a variance is granted, any person, firm, sole proprietorship,
partnership, corporation, state agency, or political subdivision proposing a
land disturbance activity within the city shall apply to the city for the
approval of the storm water pollution control plan. No land shall be disturbed
until the plan is approved by the city and conforms to the standards set forth
herein.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person or entity that applies for a building permit,
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land disturbing activities.
APPLICANT also means that person’s agents, employees, and others acting under
this person’s direction.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP’S).  Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing, and minimizing degradation of surface water,
including construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published by state or
designated area-wide planning agencies. (Examples of BMP’s can be found in the
current versions of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publications,
Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas, and, Storm-Water and Wetlands:
Planning and Evaluation Guidelines for Addressing Potential Impacts of Urban
Storm- Water and Snow-Melt Runoff on Wetlands, the United States Environmental
Protection Agency’s, Storm Water Management for Construction Activities:
Developing Pollution Prevention Plans and Best Management Practices, (as a
reference for BMP’s) and the Minnesota Department of Transportation’s, Erosion
Control Design Manual.)
   BUFFER. A protective vegetated zone located adjacent to a natural resource,
such as a water of the state, that is subject to direct or indirect human
alteration. The width of a buffer strip is the width along each bank of a
stream. Therefore a 30-foot wide stream with 100-foot buffer strips has a total
width of 230 feet. Acceptable buffer vegetation includes preserving existing
pre-development vegetation and/or planting locally distributed native Minnesota
trees, shrubs and grassy vegetation. Alteration of such areas is strictly
limited. Buffer areas are designated with permanent signs. (Commentary: As a
plant species selection guide of what species not to plant, the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources’ Minn. Rules Ch. 6216, as it may be amended
from time to time, contains a list of exotic prohibited, regulated, unlisted
and unregulated plant species.)
   DEVELOPER. A person, firm, corporation, sole proprietorship, partnership,
state agency, or political subdivision thereof engaged in a land disturbance
activity.
   DISCHARGE. The conveyance, channeling, runoff, or drainage, of storm water,
including snowmelt, from a construction site.
   ENERGY DISSIPATION. This refers to methods employed at pipe outlets to
prevent erosion. Examples include, but are not limited to; aprons, riprap,
splash pads, and gabions that are designed to prevent erosion.
   EROSION. Any process that wears away the surface of the land by the action
of water, wind, ice, or gravity. Erosion can be accelerated by the activities
of people and nature.
   EROSION CONTROL. Refers to methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples
include soil stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or
permanent cover, and construction phasing.
   EROSION AND SEDIMENT PRACTICE SPECIFICATIONS or PRACTICE. The management
procedures, techniques, and methods to control soil erosion and sedimentation
as officially adopted by either the city, county or local watershed group,
whichever is more stringent.
   EXPOSED SOIL AREAS. All areas of the construction site where the vegetation
(trees, shrubs, brush, and the like) has been removed. This includes topsoil
stockpile areas, borrow areas and disposal areas within the construction site.
It does not include stockpiles or surcharge areas of sand, gravel, concrete or
bituminous.
   FILTER STRIPS.  A vegetated section of land designed to treat runoff as
overland sheet flow. They may be designed in any natural vegetated form from a
grassy meadow to a small forest. Their dense vegetated cover facilitates
pollutant removal and infiltration.
   FINAL STABILIZATION. All soil disturbing activities at the site have been
completed, and that a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of 75%
of the cover for unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures
has been established or equivalent permanent stabilization measures have been
employed. (Examples of vegetative cover practices can be found in the current
version of the Minnesota Department of Transportation’s publication,
Supplemental Specifications to the (Year) Standard Specifications for
Construction. (Simply sowing grass seed is not considered stabilization.)
   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded, or ponded long enough
during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic (large enough to be observed by the
naked eye) plant life growing in water, soil or on a substrate that is at least
periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of excessive water content.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A constructed hard surface that either prevents or
retards the entry of water into the soil, and causes water to run off the
surface in greater quantities and at an increased rate of flow than existed
prior to development. Examples include rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways,
parking lots, storage areas, and concrete, asphalt, or gravel roads.
   LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any land change that may result in soil erosion
from water or wind and the movement of sediments into or upon waters or lands
within this government’s jurisdiction, including clearing and grubbing,
grading, excavating, transporting and filling of land. Within the context of
this rule, LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY does not mean:
      (1)   Minor land disturbance activities such as home gardens and an
individual’s home landscaping, repairs, and maintenance work.
      (2)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of electric, telephone,
and cable television, utility lines or individual service connection to these
utilities, which result in creating under 5,000 square feet of exposed soil.
      (3)   Tilling, planting, or harvesting of agricultural, horticultural, or
silvicultural crops.
      (4)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles which result in creating under 5,000 square feet
of exposed soil.
      (5)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property and emergency
repairs, unless the land disturbing activity would have otherwise required an
approved erosion and sediment control plan, except for the emergency. If such a
plan would have been required, then the disturbed land area shall be shaped and
stabilized in accordance with the city’s requirements as soon as possible.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK.  
      (1)   This is generally the boundary elevation where the vegetation
changes from predominately aquatic (where “aquatic” broadly means that the
vegetation can survive moist conditions) to terrestrial. This elevation
delineates the highest water level, which has been maintained for a sufficient
period of time to leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly that point where
the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. Water often reaches this elevation in spring. For rivers and
streams the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is usually the top of the bank. It is less
well defined for lakes and wetlands. The definition in M.S. § 103G.005,
Subdivision 14, as it may be amended from time to time, says that the “. . .
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL means the boundary of waterbasins, watercourses,
public waters, and public waters wetlands, and:
         (a)   The ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is an elevation delineating the
highest water level that has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to
leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly the point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial;
         (b)   For watercourses, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation
of the top of the bank of the channel; and
         (c)   For reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is
the operating elevation of the normal summer pool.”
      (2)   The term ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is further defined in Minn. Rules
6120.2500, Subpart 11, as it may be amended from time to time. ORDINARY HIGH
WATER MARKS are determined by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources’
area hydrologist.
   PAVED SURFACE. A constructed hard, smooth surface made of asphalt, concrete
or other pavement material. Examples include, but are not limited to, roads,
sidewalks, driveways and parking lots.
   PERMANENT COVER. Means FINAL STABILIZATION. Examples include grass, gravel,
asphalt, and concrete.
   RUNOFF COEFFICIENT. The average annual fraction of total precipitation that
is not infiltrated into or otherwise retained by the soil, concrete, asphalt or
other surface upon which it falls that will appear at the conveyance as runoff.
   SEDIMENT. The product of an erosion process; solid material both mineral and
organic, that is in suspension, is being transported, or has been moved by
water, air, or ice, and has come to rest on the earth’s surface either above or
below water level.
   SEDIMENT CONTROL. The methods employed to prevent sediment from leaving the
development site. SEDIMENT CONTROL practices include silt fences, sediment
traps, earth dikes, drainage swales, check dams, subsurface drains, pipe slope
drains, storm drain inlet protection, and temporary or permanent sedimentation
basins.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing sediment caused by
erosion.
   SOIL. The unconsolidated mineral and organic material on the immediate
surface of the earth. For the purposes of this document stockpiles of sand,
gravel, aggregate, concrete or bituminous materials are not considered SOIL
stockpiles.
   STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface after it has been covered by sod,
erosion control blanket, riprap, or other material that prevents erosion from
occurring. Simply sowing grass seed is not considered stabilization.
   STORM WATER. Under Minn. Rules 7077.0105, Subpart 41b, as it may be amended
from time to time, STORM WATER “means precipitation runoff, storm water runoff,
snow melt runoff, and any other surface runoff and drainage.” (According to the
Federal Code of Regulations under 40 CFR 122.26 [b][13], “Storm water means
storm water runoff, snow melt runoff and surface and drainage.”). STORM WATER
does not include construction site dewatering.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN. A joint storm water and erosion and
sediment control plan that is a document containing the requirements of
§ 53.04, that when implemented will decrease soil erosion on a parcel of land
and off-site nonpoint pollution.
   STRUCTURE. Anything manufactured, constructed or erected which is normally
attached to or positioned on land, including portable structures, earthen
structures, roads, parking lots, and paved storage areas.
   SUBDIVISION.  Any tract of land divided into building lots for private,
public, commercial, industrial, and the like development. Minn. Rules
6120.2500, Subpart 17, as it may be amended from time to time, defines
SUBDIVISION as, “. . . land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or
lease, including planned unit development.”
   TEMPORARY PROTECTION.  Short term methods employed to prevent erosion.
Examples of such protection include; straw, mulch, erosion control blankets,
wood chips, and erosion netting.
   URBAN.  Of, relating to, characteristic of, constituting a city.
   VEGETATED or GRASSED SWALES.  A vegetated earthen channel that conveys storm
water, while treating the storm water by biofiltration. Such swales remove
pollutants by both filtration and infiltration.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  As defined in M.S. § 115.01, Subdivision 22, as it may
be amended from time to time, the term “. . . WATERS OF THE STATE means all
streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses, waterways, wells, springs,
reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage systems and all other bodies
or accumulations of water, surface or underground, natural or artificial,
public or private, which are contained within, flow through, or border upon the
state or any portion thereof.” (Commentary: According to Minn. Rules 7050.0130,
Subpart A, as it may be amended from time to time, disposal systems or
treatment works operated under either a Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
permit or an agency certificate of compliance are not considered WATERS OF THE
STATE. Under Minn. Rules 7050.0130, Subpart F, as it may be amended from time
to time, constructed wetlands designed for wastewater treatment are not WATERS
OF THE STATE. Also see the definition of WETLANDS.)
   WET DETENTION FACILITY.  A permanent man-made structure for the temporary
storage of runoff that contains a permanent pool of water.
   WETLANDS.  As defined in Minn. Rules 7050.0130, Subpart F, as it may be
amended from time to time, “. . . WETLANDS are those areas that are inundated
or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a frequency and duration
sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances do support, a
prevalence of vegetation typically adapted for life in saturated soil
conditions. WETLANDS generally include swamps, marshes, bogs, and similar
areas. Constructed wetlands designed for wastewater treatment are not waters of
the state. WETLANDS must have the following attributes:
      (1)   A predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Inundated or saturated by surface water or groundwater at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic
vegetation typically adapted for life in a saturated soil condition; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such
vegetation.” (Commentary: Two quick references of what is an existing
identified wetland are the National Wetlands Inventory maps distributed by the
U.S. Department of the Interior’s Fish and Wildlife Service and the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources’ maps of protected waters and wetlands.)
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.04 STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. Every applicant for a building permit, subdivision
approval, or a permit to allow land disturbing activities must submit a storm
water pollution control plan to the City Engineer. No building permit,
subdivision approval, or permit to allow land disturbing activities shall be
issued until the city approves this plan. At a minimum these pollution
abatement control practices must conform to those in the current version of the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication, Protecting Water Quality in
Urban Areas.
   (B)   General policy on storm water runoff rates. For rivers and strains
storm water discharge rates must not increase over the pre-development two-
year, ten-year and 100-year peak storm discharge rates, based on the last ten
years of how that land was used. Also accelerated channel erosion must not
occur as a result of the proposed activity. For wetlands volume control is
generally more important.
   (C)   The storm water pollution control plan and the grading plan. The storm
water pollution control plan’s measures, the limit of disturbed surface and the
location of buffer areas shall be marked on the approved grading plan, and
identified with flags, stakes, signs and the like on the development site
before work begins.
   (D)   Inspections of the storm water pollution control plan measures. At a
minimum such inspections shall be done weekly and after every storm event that
is large enough to result in run off from the site by either the city,
developer or the developer’s designated representative
   (E)   Minimum requirements of the storm water pollution control plan.
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and the location of the
activity.
      (2)   Project description: the nature and purpose of the land disturbing
activity and the amount of grading, utilities, and building construction
involved.
      (3)   Phasing of construction: time frames and schedules for the
project’s various aspects.
      (4)   A map of the existing site conditions: existing topography,
property information, steep slopes, existing drainage systems/patterns, type of
soils, waterways, wetlands, vegetative cover, 100-year flood plain boundaries,
locations of existing and future buffer strips and labeling the portions of the
site that are within trout stream or outstanding resource value water
watersheds.
      (5)   A site construction plan that includes the location of the proposed
land disturbing activities, stockpile locations, erosion and sediment control
plan, construction schedule, and the plan for the maintenance and inspections
of the storm water pollution control measures.
      (6)   Adjacent areas: neighboring streams, lakes, residential areas,
roads, and the like, which might be affected by the land disturbing activity.
      (7)   Designate the site’s areas that have the potential for serious
erosion problems.
      (8)   Erosion and sediment control measures: the methods that will be
used to control erosion and sedimentation on the site, both during and after
the construction process.
      (9)   Permanent stabilization: how the site will be stabilized after
construction is completed, including specifications, time frames or schedules.
      (10)   Calculations: any that were made for the design of such items as
sediment basins, wet detention basins, diversions, waterways, infiltration
zones and other applicable practices.
   (F)   General storm water pollution control plan criteria. The plan shall
address the following:
      (1)   Stabilizing all exposed soils and soil stockpiles and the related
time frame or schedule.
      (2)   Establishing permanent vegetation and the related time frame or
schedule.
      (3)   Preventing sediment damage to adjacent properties and other
designated areas such as streams, wetlands, lakes and unique vegetation (such
as oak groves, rare and endangered species habitats.)
      (4)   Scheduling for erosion and sediment control practices.
      (5)   Where permanent and temporary sedimentation basins will be located.
      (6)   Engineering the construction and stabilization of steep slopes.
      (7)   Measures for controlling the quality and quantity of storm water
leaving a site.
      (8)   Stabilizing all waterways and outlets.
      (9)   Protecting storm sewers from the entrance of sediment.
      (10)   What precautions will be taken to contain sediment when working in
or crossing water bodies.
      (11)   Restabilizing utility construction areas as soon as possible.
      (12)   Protecting paved roads from sediment and mud brought in from
access routes.
      (13)   Disposing of temporary erosion and sediment control measures.
      (14)   How the temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control
practices will be maintained.
      (15)   How collected sediment and floating debris will be disposed of.
   (G)   Minimum storm water pollution control measures and related
inspections. These minimum control measures are required where bare soil is
exposed. Due to the diversity of individual construction sites, each site will
be individually evaluated. Where additional control measures are needed, they
will be specified at the discretion of the City Engineer. The city will
determine what action is necessary to prevent excessive erosion from occurring
on the site.
      (1)   All grading plans and building site surveys must be reviewed by the
city for effectiveness of erosion control measures in the context of the site
topography and drainage.
      (2)   Sediment control measures must be properly installed by the builder
before construction activity begins. Such structures may be adjusted during dry
weather to accommodate short term activities, such as those that require the
passage of very large vehicles. As soon as this activity is finished or before
rainfall, the erosion and sediment control structures must be returned to the
configuration specified by the city. A sediment control inspection must then be
scheduled, and passed before a footing inspection will be done.
      (3)   Diversion of channeled runoff around disturbed areas, if practical,
or the protection of the channel.
      (4)   If a storm water management plan involves directing some or all of
the site’s runoff, the applicant or his or her designated representative shall
obtain from adjacent property owners any necessary easements or other property
interests concerning the flowing of such water.
      (5)   The scheduling of the site’s activities to lessen their impact on
erosion and sediment creation, so as to minimize the amount of exposed soil.
      (6)   Control runoff as follows (Either (a) and (b) or (a) and (c)):
         (a)   Unless precluded by moderate or heavy snow cover (mulching can
take place if a light snow cover is present), stabilize all exposed inactive
disturbed soil areas within 100 feet of any water of the state, or with in 100
feet any conveyance (curb, gutter, storm sewer inlet, drainage ditch, and the
like) to a water of the state with sod, seed or weed free mulch. This must be
done, if the developer will not work the area for seven days on slopes greater
than three feet horizontal to one foot vertical (3:1), 14 days on slopes
ranging from 3:1 to 10:1 and 21 days for flatter slopes.
         (b)   For disturbed areas greater than five acres construct temporary
or permanent sedimentation basins. Sedimentation basins must have a minimum
surface area equal to at least 1% of the area draining to basin, and be
constructed in accordance with accepted design specifications including access
for operations and maintenance. Basin discharge rates must also be controlled
to prevent erosion in the discharge channel. (The applicant is required to
obtain a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System/State Disposal System
(NPDES/SDS) construction storm water permit from the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency for any project that disturbs five acres or more of land.)
         (c)   For disturbed areas less than five acres sedimentation basins
are encouraged, but not required, unless specifically required by the City
Engineer. The applicant shall install erosion and sediment controls at
locations directed by the city. Minimum requirements include silt fences, rock
check dams, or other equivalent control measures along slopes. Silt fences are
required along channel edges to reduce sediment reaching channel. Silt fences,
rock check dams, and the like must be regularly inspected and maintained.
      (7)   Sediment basins related to impervious surface area. Where a
project’s ultimate development replaces surface vegetation with one or more
acres of cumulative impervious surface, and all runoff has not been accounted
for in a local unit of government’s existing storm water management plan or
practice, the runoff must be discharged to a wet sedimentation basin prior to
entering waters of the state. (At a minimum the work must conform with the
current version of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication,
Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas, and the current requirements found in
the same agency’s NPDES/SDS permits for storm water associated with
construction activities.)
      (8)   Generally, sufficient silt fence will be required to hold all sheet
flow runoff generated at an individual site, until it can either infiltrate or
seep through silt fence’s pores.
      (9)   Temporary stockpiling of 50 or more cubic yards of excess soil on
any lot or other vacant area will not be allowed without issuance of a grading
permit for the earth moving activity in question.
      (10)   For soil stockpiles greater than ten cubic yards the toe of the
pile must be more than 25 feet from a road, drainage channel or storm water
inlet. If such stockpiles will be left for more than seven days, they must be
stabilized with mulch, vegetation, tarps or other means. If left for less than
seven days, erosion from stockpiles must be controlled with silt fences or rock
check dams. (If for any reason a soil stockpile of any size is located closer
than 25 feet from a road, drainage channel or storm water inlet, and will be
left for more than seven days, it must be covered with tarps or controlled in
some other manner.)
      (11)   All sand, gravel or other mining operations taking place on the
development site shall have a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
General Storm Water permit for industrial activities and all required Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources permits.
      (12)   Temporary rock construction entrances may be required wherever
vehicles enter and exit a site.
      (13)   Parking is prohibited on all bare lots and all temporary
construction entrances, except where street parking is not available. Gravel
entrances are to be used for deliveries only as per the development contract.
      (14)   Streets must be cleaned and swept whenever tracking of sediments
occurs and before sites are left idle for weekends and holidays. Establishment
of a regular sweeping schedule is encouraged.
      (15)   Water (impacted by the construction activity) removed from the
site by pumping must be treated by temporary sedimentation basins, geotextile
filters, grit chambers, sand filters, up-flow chambers, hydro-cyclones, swirl
concentrators, or other appropriate controls. Such water shall not be
discharged in a manner that causes erosion or flooding of the site, receiving
channels, adjacent property or a wetland.
      (16)   All storm drain inlets must be protected during construction until
control measures are in place with either silt fence or an equivalent barrier
that meets accepted design criteria, standards and specifications as contained
in the latest version of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication,
Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas.
      (17)   Catch basins. All newly installed and rehabilitated catch basins
must be provided with a sump area for collecting coarse-grained material. Such
basins must be cleaned when they are half-filled with material.
      (18)   Roof drain leaders. All newly constructed and reconstructed
buildings must route roof drain leaders to pervious areas (not natural
wetlands) where the runoff can infiltrate. The discharge rate shall be
controlled so that no erosion occurs in the pervious areas.
      (19)   Follow-up inspections must be performed by the city on a regular
basis to ensure that erosion and sediment control measures are properly
installed and maintained. In all cases the inspectors will attempt to work with
the developer and/or builder to maintain proper erosion and sediment control at
all sites. (In cases where cooperation is withheld, construction stop orders
may be issued by the city, until erosion and sediment control measures meet
specifications. A second erosion and sediment control/grading inspection must
then be scheduled and passed before the final inspection will be done.)
      (20)   Removal of more than one acre of topsoil shall not be done, unless
written permission is given by the City Engineer. Excessive removal of topsoil
can cause significant soil erosion problems.
      (21)   Inspection and maintenance. All storm water pollution control
management facilities must be designed to minimize the need of maintenance, to
provide easy vehicle and personnel access for maintenance purposes and be
structurally sound. These facilities must have a plan of operation and
maintenance that ensures continued effective removal of the pollutants carried
in storm water runoff. The city or its designated representative shall inspect
all storm water management facilities during construction, during the first
year of operation and at least once every five years thereafter. The city will
keep all inspection records on file for a period of six years. It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to obtain any necessary easements or other
property interests to allow access to the storm water management facilities for
inspection and maintenance purpose.
   (H)   Permanent storm water pollution controls.
      (1)   The applicant shall either install, construct, or pay the city fees
for all storm water management facilities necessary to manage increased runoff,
so that the discharge rates from storm water treatment basins so that the pre-
development two-year, ten-year, and 100-year peak storm discharge rates are not
increased. These pre-development rates shall be based on the last ten years of
how that land was used. Accelerated channel erosion must not occur as a result
of the proposed land disturbing or development activity. An applicant may also
make an in-kind or a monetary contribution to the development and maintenance
of community storm water management facilities designed to serve multiple land
disturbing and development activities undertaken by one or more persons,
including the applicant.
      (2)   All calculations and information used in determining these peak
storm discharge rates shall be submitted along with the storm water pollution
control plan.
      (3)   The applicant shall consider reducing the need for storm water
management facilities by incorporating the use of natural topography and land
cover such as natural swales and depressions as they exist before development
to the degree that they can accommodate the additional flow of treated (such as
settled) water without compromising the integrity or quality of the wetland or
pond. (Commentary: The sensitivity of a wetland to degradation varies with the
type of vegetation. Sedge meadows, open bogs and swamps, coniferous bogs,
calcareous fens, low prairies, lowland hardwood swamps, and seasonally flooded
basins are highly sensitive to degradation. Flood plain forests, reed canary
grass meadows, shallow (reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed or purple
loosestrife) marshes are only slightly sensitive to degradation. See the
current version of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication Storm-
Water and Wetlands: Planning and Evaluation Guidelines for Addressing Potential
Impacts of Urban Storm-Water and Snow-Melt Runoff on Wetlands for details.)
      (4)   The following storm water management practices must be investigated
in developing the storm water management part of the storm water pollution
control plan in the following descending order of preference:
         (a)   Protect and preserve as much natural or vegetated area on the
site as possible, minimizing impervious surfaces, and directing runoff to
vegetated areas rather than to adjoining streets, storm sewers and ditches.
         (b)   Flow attenuation of treated storm water by use of open vegetated
swales and natural depressions;
         (c)   Storm water wet detention facilities (including percolation
facilities); and
         (d)   A combination of successive practices may be used to achieve the
applicable minimum control requirements specified in division (H). The
applicant shall provide justification for the method selected.
   (I)   Minimum design standards for storm water wet detention facilities. At
a minimum these facilities must conform to the most current technology as
reflected in the current version of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s
publication, Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas and the current
requirements found in the same agency’s NPDES permits for storm water
associated with construction activities.
   (J)   Minimum protection for natural wetlands.
      (1)   Runoff must not be discharged directly into wetlands without
appropriate quality (such as treated) and quantity runoff control, depending on
the individual wetland’s vegetation sensitivity. See the current version of the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency’s publication, Storm-Water and Wetlands:
Planning and Evaluation Guidelines for Addressing Potential Impacts of Urban
Storm-Water and Snow- Melt Runoff on Wetlands for guidance. (Commentary: The
sensitivity of a wetland to degradation varies with vegetation type. Sedge
meadows, open bogs and swamps, coniferous bogs, calcareous fens, low prairies,
lowland hardwood swamps, and seasonally flooded basins are highly sensitive to
degradation, while flood plain forests, reed canary grass meadows, shallow
(reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed or purple loosestrife) marshes are only
slightly sensitive to degradation.)
      (2)   Wetlands must not be drained or filled, wholly or partially, unless
replaced by either restoring or creating wetland areas of at least equal public
value. Compensating for the impact by replacing or providing substitute wetland
resources or environments with those of at least equal public value.
Compensation, including the replacement ratio and quality of replacement should
be consistent with the requirements outlined in the rules adopted by the Board
of Water and Soil Resources to implement the Wetland Conservation Act of 1991
including any and all amendments to it.
      (3)   Work in and around wetlands must be guided by the following
principles in descending order of priority:
         (a)   Avoid both the direct and indirect impact of the activity that
may destroy or diminish the wetland.
         (b)   Minimize the impact by limiting the degree or magnitude of the
wetland related activity and its implementation.
         (c)   Rectify the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or restoring
the affected wetland environment with one of at least equal public value.
         (d)   Reduce or eliminate the adverse impact over time by preservation
and maintenance operations during the life of the activity.
   (K)   Vegetated buffer protection for rivers, streams and wetlands.
      (1)   At the minimum a 100-foot wide protective buffer strip (40 feet for
wetlands) of, if possible pre-development vegetation shall be left along each
bank, providing a tree canopy in the buffer zone closest to the channel. Buffer
width shall be increased at least two feet (four feet for wetlands) for every
one 1% of slope of the surrounding land. (Commentary: When new buffer
vegetation is planted, “native”Buffer Zones and Soil Bioengineering.)
         (a)   Detailed buffer design is usually site specific. Therefore the
City Engineer can require a larger buffer that the minimum.
         (b)   1.   For newly constructed buffer sites the design criteria
should follow common principles and the example of nearby natural areas. The
site should be examined for existing buffer zones and mimic the slope structure
and vegetation as much as possible. Buffer design and protection during
construction should do any or all of the following: slow water runoff, trap
sediment, enhance water infiltration, trap fertilizers, pesticides, pathogens,
heavy metals, trap blowing snow and soil, and act as corridors for wildlife.
How much stress is put on these functions will determine the buffer zone’s
final configuration. (Commentary: Native Minnesota plant species have root
systems and growth characteristics that are well suited to buffer functions.
root systems and growth characteristics that are well suited to buffer
functions. Byway of comparison, deep rooted native grasses have a root system
that is about ten times greater that soy beans or corn. Useful guides for
starting the species selection includes the Minnesota Department of
Transportation’s seeding manual, and their “Plant Selection Matrix” CD ROM.
Good plant species design stresses diversity and allows plant succession and
zoning of species from wet soil preference to drier upland species.) Useful
guides for starting the plant selection include Minnesota Department of
Transportation’s seeding manual and their “Plant Selection Matrix” CD ROM. Good
plant species design stresses diversity and allows plant succession and zoning
of the species from wet soil species to drier upland species.)
            2.   The Minnesota Department of Natural Resources requires permits
when vegetation is introduced downgrade of a water’s “ordinary high water
mark.” The Minnesota Department of Natural Resources’ area hydrologist defines
the ordinary high water mark. Planting permits are obtained from the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources regional fisheries office.
         (c)   The applicant and/or developer shall maintain the buffer strip
for the first year. After that the city, or a party designated by the city,
shall maintain the buffer strip. (Commentary: Even after a buffer strip is
established it will require periodic inspection and possibly maintenance to
ensure that it is functioning properly. Otherwise siltation and channeling may
short-circuit the strip’s function.)
         (d)   Drain tiles will short-circuit the benefits of vegetated buffer
strips. Therefore drain tiles on the development site should be identified and
rendered inoperable.
         (e)   Buffer strips can be made into perpetual conservation easements.
         (f)   Buffer strips shall be marked as such with permanent signs.
      (2)   Water courses used solely for drainage, such as road side ditches,
are exempt from this provision.
   (L)   Additional special trout stream and outstanding resource value water
requirements.
      (1)   For discharges directly to or to tributaries directly to Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources designated trout streams, and Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency designated Outstanding Resource Value Waters there
shall be no increase in either the volume or rate of discharge from any design
storm with a statistical recurrence interval of less than ten years (such as
for the two-year, five- year, and the like, storm events), unless diversion is
not practical and/or the soil is not suitable for storm water infiltration
techniques. This pertains to discharges directly to or upstream of such waters.
(Commentary: The intent is to encourage either storm water infiltration or
diversion, since urban trout streams are a unique resource and therefore
deserve special consideration. Residential development increases the total
volume of runoff resulting from a given storm. Since there is a larger volume
of water to deal with, limiting the rate of storm runoff to pre-development
rates means that high, flows (and therefore scouring velocities) will persist
for longer periods of time than during pre-development conditions. This
increases channel erosion. Infiltration or diversion deals with this increased
scouting problem by lessening the volume of runoff and therefore the duration
of the scouring velocities. In the case of trout streams, increasing the inputs
of warm storm water increases the impact of thermal shocks. Since trout are
temperature sensitive, increasing thermal shocks adversely impacts trout
habitat.)
         (a)   The phrase, “tributaries directly to,” refers to tributaries
within at least one Minnesota Department of Natural Resources Division of
Waters minor watershed of the designated water. At its discretion the city may
extend this area of protection.
         (b)   The phrase, “soil not suitable for storm water infiltration
techniques,” means soils with permeability values less that Group C soils (less
than 2.5 inches per hour) as defined by the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
Natural Resources Conservation Service and a high water table is not present.
      (2)   During construction temporary sedimentation basins are required for
disturbed areas over one acre.
      (3)   Storm water treatment devices that remove oil and floatable
material (such as basin outlets with submerged entrances) must be part of BMP
systems.
      (4)   Where feasible lightly used vehicle traffic areas such as overflow
parking lots should use pervious surfaces where feasible.
      (5)   If the proposed project site includes a tributary that currently
experiences erosion and/or sedimentation problems, the applicant shall work
with the city to include channel modifications in the project that will also
address the existing erosion and/or sedimentation problem.
      (6)   Permanent buildings erected on sites that border directly on and
all tributaries to a Minnesota Department of Natural Resources designated trout
stream and/or a Minnesota Pollution Control Agency designated Outstanding
Resource Value Water must not be occupied until the permanent vegetative cover
has been established. Such cover must meet this permit’s definition of “final
stabilization.”
      (7)   The applicant shall consider methods for reducing the amount of
impervious surface on the site. (Commentary: A useful publication is Better
Site Design: A Handbook for Changing Development Rules in Your Community
available from the Center for Watershed Protection in Ellicott City, Maryland.)
Suggestions include:
         (a)   Disking in compost or in some other manner increasing the
porosity of the soil that will be come covered by lawns. (Commentary: The
movement of heavy vehicles associated with construction activities compacts the
soil, and thus decreases its ability to absorb water. This is true even for
some types of sandy soils. The common grasses chosen for lawns do not have a
deep enough root system to overcome construction vehicle related soil
compaction problems.)
         (b)   Reduced road widths.
         (c)   Eliminating paving in the center of culs-de-sac.
         (d)   Reducing sidewalk widths.
         (e)   Allowing and providing for shared parking.
         (f)   Installing semipermeable/permeable or porous paving.
         (g)   Vegetated swales instead of curb and gutter.
         (h)   Filter strips
         (i)   “Green” (vegetated) roofs.
   (M)   Models/methodologies/computations. Hydrologic models and design
methodologies used for the determining runoff characteristics and analyzing
storm water management structures must be approved by the City Engineer. Plans,
specifications and computations for storm water management facilities submitted
for review must be sealed and signed by a registered professional engineer. All
computations must appear in the plans submitted for review, unless otherwise
approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.05 REVIEW.
   The City Engineer shall review the storm water pollution control plan. This
review must be completed within 14 days of receiving the plan from the
developer.
   (A)   Permit required. If the city determines that the storm water pollution
control plan meets the requirements of this chapter, the city shall issue a
permit valid for a specified period of time, that authorizes the land
disturbance activity contingent on the implementation and completion of this
plan.
   (B)   Denial.
      (1)   If the city determines that the storm water pollution control plan
does not meet the requirements of this chapter, the city shall not issue a
permit for the land disturbance activity.
      (2)   All land use and building permits for the site in question must be
suspended until the developer has an approved storm water pollution control
plan.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.06 MODIFICATION OF PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. An approved storm water pollution control plan may be
modified on submission of a written application for modification to the city,
and after written approval by the City Engineer. In reviewing such an
application, the City Engineer may require additional reports and data.
   (B)   Records retention. The city shall retain the written records of such
modifications for at least five years.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.07 FINANCIAL SECURITIES.
   (A)   Security amount and form.
      (1)   The applicant shall provide security for the performance of the
work described and delineated on the approved grading plan involving the storm
water pollution control plan and any storm water and pollution control plan
related remedial work in an amount of $3,000 per gross acre or $1,000 for each
single- or twin-family home, whichever is greater. This security must be
available prior to commencing the project.
      (2)   The form of the securities must be:
         (a)   The first $500 (in U.S. currency) or 15%, whichever is greater,
of this financial security must be by cash deposit to the city.
         (b)   Deposit, either with the city, a responsible escrow agent, or
trust company, at the option of the city, money, an irrevocable letter of
credit, negotiable bonds of the kind approved for securing deposits of public
money or other instruments of credit from one or more financial institutions,
subject to regulation by the state and federal government wherein the financial
institution pledges that the funds are on deposit and guaranteed for payment.
The type of security must be of a type acceptable by the city.
         (c)   The city may request a greater financial security, if the city
considers that the development site is especially prone to erosion or the
resource to be protected is especially valuable.
   (B)   Maintaining the financial security.
      (1)   If at anytime during the course of the work this amount falls below
50% of the required deposit, the developer shall make another deposit in the
amount necessary to restore the deposit to the required amount.
      (2)   If the developer does not bring the financial security back up to
the required amount within seven days after notification by the city that the
amount has fallen below 50% of the required amount the, city may:
         (a)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy.
         (b)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the
site in question and any other of the applicant’s sites within the city’s
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Proportional reduction of the financial security. When more than half
of the development’s maximum exposed soil area achieves final stabilization,
the city can reduce the total required amount of the financial security by
half, if recommended by the City Engineer.
   (D)   Action against the financial security. The city may act against the
financial security if any of the conditions listed below exist. The city shall
use funds from this security to finance any corrective or remedial work
undertaken by the city or a contractor under contract to the city and to
reimburse the city for all direct cost incurred in the process of remedial work
including, but not limited to, staff time and attorney’s fees.
      (1)   The developer ceases land disturbing activities and/or filling and
abandons the work site prior to completion of the grading plan.
      (2)   The developer fails to conform to any city approved grading plan
and/or the storm water pollution control plan as approved by the city.
      (3)   The techniques utilized under the storm water pollution control
plan fail within one year of installation.
      (4)   The developer fails to reimburse the city for corrective action
taken under
§ 53.08.
   (E)   Returning the financial security. Any unspent amount of the financial
security deposited with the city for faithful performance of the storm water
pollution control plan and any storm water and pollution control plan related
remedial work must be released one full year after the completion of the
installation of all such measures and the establishment of final stabilization.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.08 NOTIFICATION OF FAILURE OF THE STORM WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The city shall notify the developer, when the city is going
to act on the financial securities part of this chapter.
   (B)   Notification by the City of Waverly. The initial contact will be to a
party or parties listed on the application and/or the storm water pollution
control plan. Forty-eight hours after notification by the city or 72 hours
after the failure of erosion control measures, whichever is less the city, at
its discretion, may begin corrective work. Such notification should be in
writing, but if it is verbal, a written notification should follow as quickly
as practical.
   (C)   Erosion off-site. If erosion breaches the perimeter of the site, the
applicant shall immediately develop a cleanup and restoration plan, obtain the
right-of-entry from the adjoining property owner, and implement the cleanup and
restoration plan within 48 hours of obtaining the adjoining property owner’s
permission. In no case, unless written approval is received from the city,
shall more than seven calendar days go by without corrective action being
taken. If in the discretion of the city, the applicant does not repair the
damage caused by the erosion, the city may do the remedial work required and
charge the cost to the applicant.
   (D)   Erosion into streets, wetlands or water bodies. If eroded soils
(including tracked soils from construction activities) enter or appear likely
to enter streets, wetlands, or other water bodies, prevention strategies,
cleanup and repair must be immediate. The applicant shall provide all traffic
control and flagging required to protect the traveling public during the
cleanup operations.
   (E)   Failure to do corrective work. When an applicant fails to conform to
any provision of this policy within the time stipulated, the city may take the
following actions:
      (1)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
Certificate of Occupancy.
      (2)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the site
in question or any other of the applicant’s sites within the city’s
jurisdiction.
      (3)   Direct the correction of the deficiency by city forces or by a
separate contract. The issuance of a permit constitutes a right-of-entry for
the city or its contractor to enter upon the construction site for the purpose
of correcting deficiencies in erosion control.
      (4)   All costs incurred by the city in correcting storm water pollution
control deficiencies must be reimbursed by the applicant. If payment is not
made within 30 days after costs are incurred by the city, payment will be made
from the applicant’s financial securities as described in
§ 53.07.
      (5)   If there is an insufficient financial amount, in the applicant’s
financial securities as described in
§ 53.07, to cover the costs incurred by the city, then the city may assess the
remaining amount against the property. As a condition of the permit, the owner
shall waive notice of any assessment hearing to be conducted by the city,
concur that the benefit to the property exceeds the amount of the proposed
assessment, and waive all rights by virtue of M.S. § 429.081, as it may be
amended from time to time, to challenge the amount or validity of assessment.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.09 VARIANCE.
   (A)   Generally. In any case where, upon application of the responsible
person or persons, the city finds that by reason of exceptional circumstances,
strict conformity with this chapter would be unreasonable, impractical, or not
feasible under the circumstances; the city in its discretion may grant a
variance therefrom upon such conditions as it may prescribe for prevention,
control, or abatement of pollution in harmony with the general purposes of this
chapter.
   (B)   Variance request. The variance request must be in writing.
   (C)   Variance response. The variance response must be in writing, and
include the justification for either granting or denying the requested
variance.
   (D)   Time limit. The variance shall become void one year after being
granted, unless used.
   (E)   Revocation. If any of the variance’s conditions are violated, the city
may revoke the variance.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.10 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   The applicant shall allow the city and their authorized representatives,
upon presentation of credentials to:
   (A)   Enter upon the permitted site for the purpose of obtaining
information, examination of records, conducting investigations, surveys or
investigations.
   (B)   Bring such equipment upon the permitted development as is necessary to
conduct such surveys and investigations.
   (C)   Examine and copy any books, papers, records, or memoranda pertaining
to activities or records required to be kept under the terms and conditions of
this permitted site.
   (D)   Inspect the storm water pollution control measures required by the
city.
   (E)   Sample and monitor any items or activities pertaining to permits
issued by the city.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.11 APPEALS.
   According to M.S. § 429.081, as it may be amended from time to time, within
30 days after the adoption of the assessment, any person aggrieved, who is not
precluded by failure to object prior to or at the assessment hearing, or whose
failure to so object is due to a reasonable cause, may appeal to the district
court by serving a notice upon the Mayor or Clerk/Treasurer of the
municipality. The notice shall be filed with the Court Administrator of the
district court within ten days after its service. The municipal Clerk/Treasurer
shall furnish appellant a certified copy of objections filed in the assessment
proceedings, the assessment roll or part complained of, and all papers
necessary to present the appeal. The appeal shall be placed upon the calendar
of the next general term commencing more than five days after the date of
serving the notice and shall be tried as other appeals in such cases. The court
shall either affirm the assessment or set it aside and order a reassessment as
provided in M.S. § 429.071, Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to
time. If appellant does not prevail upon the appeal, the costs incurred shall
be taxed by the court and judgment entered therefor. All objections to the
assessment shall be deemed waived unless presented on such appeal. This section
provides the exclusive method of appeal from a special assessment levied
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.12 AREA HYDROLOGIST OFFICES.
   Following are the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources area hydrologist
offices:
   (A)   Bemidji (Region 1).
      (1)   Bemidji Area Counties: Beltrami and Lake of the Woods;
      (2)   Detroit Lakes Area Counties: Becker, Clay, Mahnomen and Norman;
      (3)   Douglas-Pope Area Counties (Office in Fergus Falls): Douglas and
Pope;
      (4)   Fergus Falls Area Counties: Grant, Otter Tail, Stevens, Traverse
and Wilkin;
      (5)   Hubbard Area Counties (Office in Bemidji): Cass (Western part),
Clearwater, and Hubbard;
      (6)   Thief River Falls Area Counties: Kittson, Marshall, Pennington,
Polk, Red Lake and Roseau.
   (B)   Grand Rapids (Region 2).
      (1)   Eveleth Area County: Saint Louis (Except the southern part);
      (2)   Grand Rapids Area Counties: Cass (Eastern part), Itasca and
Koochiching;
      (3)   Two Harbors Area Counties: Carlton, Cook, Lake and Saint Louis
(Cities of Duluth, Hermantown, Proctor and Midway Township).
   (C)   Brainerd (Region 3).
      (1)   Brainerd Area Counties: Cass (Eastern part) and Crow Wing;
      (2)   Cambridge Area Counties: Chisago, Isanti and Pine;
      (3)   Little Falls Area Counties: Morrison, Todd, Wadena;
      (4)   Mille Lacs Area Counties (Office in Brainerd): Aikin, Kanabec and
Mille Lacs;
      (5)   Sauk Rapids Area Counties: Steams and Benton;
      (6)   Sherburne-Wright Area Counties (Office in Saint Cloud): Sherburne,
Wright.
   (D)   New Ulm (Region 4).
      (1)   Hutchinson Area Counties: Brown, McLeod, Meeker, Nicollet and
Sibley;
      (2)   Mankato Area Counties: Blue Earth, Faribault, Le Sueur, Martin and
Waseca;
      (3)   Marshall Area Counties: Lac qui Parle, Lincoln, Lyon, Pipestone,
Redwood and Yellow Medicine;
      (4)   Spicer Area Counties: Big Stone, Chippewa, Kandiyohi, Renville and
Swift;
      (5)   Windom Area Counties: Cottonwood, Jackson, Murray, Nobles, Rock and
Watonwan.
   (E)   Rochester (Region 5).
      (1)   Rochester Area Counties: Dodge, Fillmore, Freeborn, Mower, Olmsted,
Rice and Steele;
      (2)   Lake City Area Counties: Goodhue, Houston, Wabasha, Winona.
   (F)   Saint Paul (Region 6). Counties: Anoka, Carver, Dakota, Hennepin,
Ramsey, Scott and Washington.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.13 REGIONAL FISHERIES OFFICES.
   Following are the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources regional
fisheries offices:
   (A)   Bemidji Regional Fisheries Office (Region 1). Counties: Becker,
Beltrami, Cass (Northwestern part), Clay, Clearwater, Douglas, Grant, Hubbard,
Kittson, Lake of the Woods, Mahnomen, Marshall, Norman, Otter Tail, Pennington,
Polk, Pope, Red Lake, Roseau, Stevens, Wadena (Northern half), and Wilkin.
   (B)   Grand Rapids Regional Fisheries Office (Region 2). Counties: Carlton,
Cass (Northeastern part), Cook, Itasca, Koochiching, Lake, Saint Louis.
   (C)   Brainerd Regional Fisheries Office (Region 3). Counties: Aitkin,
Benton, Cass (Southern part), Chisago, Crow Wing, Isanti, Kanabec, Mille Lacs,
Morrison, Pine, Sherburne, Todd, Steams, Wadena (Southern half) and Wright.
   (D)   New Ulm Regional Fisheries Office (Region 4). Counties: Big Stone,
Blue Earth, Brown, Chippewa, Cottonwood, Faribault, Jackson, Kandiyohi, Lac qui
Parle, Le Sueur, Lincoln, Lyon, Martin, McLeod, Meeker, Murray, Nicollet,
Nobles, Pipestone, Redwood, Renville, Rice, Rock, Sibley, Swift, Traverse,
Watonwan, Waseca and Yellow Medicine.
   (E)   Rochester Regional Fisheries Office (Region 5). Counties: Dodge,
Fillmore, Freeborn, Goodhue, Houston, Mower, Olmsted, Steele, Wabasha and
Winona.
   (F)   Saint Paul Regional Fisheries Office (Region 6). Counties: Anoka,
Carver, Dakota, Hennepin, Ramsey, Scott and Washington.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation failing to comply with or violating any of
these regulations, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a
fine or imprisonment or both. All land use and building permits must be
suspended until the developer has corrected the violation. Each day that a
separate violation exists shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 4-10-01)
CHAPTER 54: STORM WATER DRAINAGE UTILITY
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   There is hereby established a public utility which shall be known as the
Storm Water Drainage Utility in and for the city. The Storm Water Drainage
Utility shall be operated as a public utility pursuant to the City Charter,
City Code and applicable statutes. The revenues therefrom shall be derived
subject to the provisions of this chapter and M.S. Ch. 444. The Storm Water
Drainage Utility shall be administered by the city under the administration of
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 11-12-03)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE. Administrative costs as associated with acquiring and
maintaining the necessary contour maps, which define the watershed in and for
the city. Also included shall be periodic planning and engineering studies,
which shall determined the adequacy and condition of the storm water drainage
system.
   CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON TAXES.  Any past due storm water drainage
fees in excess of 90 days past due on October 1, of any year may be certified
tot he County Auditor for collection with real estate taxes in the following
year pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, Subdivision 3. In addition the city shall also
have the right to bring a civil action or to take other legal remedies to
collect unpaid fees.
   CONSTRUCTION.  The improvements to the storm water system in areas not
previously served with lateral and trunk lines.
   DEVELOPED LAND. Land which has been platted. Undeveloped land is land which
has not been platted.
   EXEMPTIONS. The following land uses are exempt from storm water drainage
fees: Public rights-of-way, municipal property being used for public service,
and city parks are exempt from the storm water drainage fees.
   MAINTENANCE. Includes direct and indirect costs as well as equipment costs
for repairs and cleaning. Cleaning includes, catch basin cleaning, jetting,
storm water pond cleaning, ditch cleaning, thawing pipes and any other
operation, which assures a dependable drainage system. It shall also include
the administrative costs.
   PAYMENT OF FEES. The City Council shall establish policy relating to the
payments of fees and penalties relating thereto.
   RECALCULATION OF FEES. If a property owner or person responsible for paying
the storm water drainage fee questions the correctness of an invoice for such
charge, such person may have the determination of the charge recomputed by
written request to the City Clerk, made within 12 months of mailing of the
invoice by the city. The property owner may appeal the decision of the City
Clerk to the City Council by filing notice of such appeal with the City Clerk
within 60 days of the City Clerk's determination.
   RECONSTRUCTION.  The improvements made to the storm water drainage system in
areas previously served with lateral and trunk lines.
   STORM WATER DRAINAGE FEES. Storm water drainage fees for each land parcel
shall be determined according to the current rate schedule attached to
Ordinance 03-05. The rate schedule may be revised semi-annually to match the
current city storm water operations and maintenance budget for the storm sewer
system.
   UNDEVELOPED LAND. Undeveloped commercial and industrial land shall be
excluded from the storm water drainage fee until public right-of-way has been
platted and storm sewer improvements made.
   UNDEVELOPED PLATTED RESIDENTIAL LOTS. Property owners/developers shall be
charged a fee. The Clerk's office will invoice the property owner/developer for
platted lots on a regular schedule determined by the City Council until the
property is hooked up to water and sewer services. The billing will be done on
the utility bill after services are connected.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 11-12-03; Am. Ord. 15-01, passed 4-14-15)
CHAPTER 55: PUBLIC UTILITY ACCOUNTS AND BILLING
Section
   
55.01   Definitions
   
55.02   Accounts
   
55.03   Billing
   
55.04   Utility rate schedule
   
55.05   Delinquent accounts
   
55.06   Other remedies
§ 55.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. A record of utility services used by each property and the periodic
costs for those utility services.
   CITY. The City of Waverly, County of Wright, State of Minnesota.
   CITY UTILITY SYSTEM. Facilities used for providing public utility service
owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sewer, storm sewer, and
water service.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of utility rates and charges set by
ordinance of the city.
   WATERWORKS SYSTEM. Water and sewer transmission pipes, lines, fixtures,
meters and all necessary equipment and appurtenances owned or operated by the
city utility system for the purpose of providing water and sewer services for
public or private use.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-8-12)
§ 55.02 ACCOUNTS.
   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The owner shall be
liable for water and sewer services supplied to the property, whether he or she
is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon
the property.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-8-12)
§ 55.03 BILLING.
   Water, sewer, storm sewer, Montrose plant, garbage, and recycling charges
shall be billed on one bill as applicable to each account on a monthly basis.
All charges for water, sewer, storm sewer, Montrose plant, garbage, and
recycling charges shall be due on the 10th of each month. All bills will be
considered delinquent after 30 days and subject to a late fee. Further action
will be taken on accounts with a delinquency level of 60 days. The title,
address, and telephone number shall be clearly visible and easily readable on
all bill statements. Bills will be mailed to customers on the 15th of the month
following the month of service since water meters are read during the first
week of the month following the service period. Bill statements will specify
the water consumed and the sewer and Montrose plant usage as well as the flat
service fees for storm sewer, garbage, and recycling. Billing will be done in
accordance with utility fees adopted annually and listed on the city’s fee
schedule.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-8-12)
§ 55.04 UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The utility rate schedule shall be adopted by the City Council on an
annual basis.
   (B)   The City Council shall review a proposed assessment roll each year in
October for certification to the county in November. The Council will establish
a cut-off date for payments to avoid certification of delinquent utility bills
to taxes. The final assessment roll will be adopted by resolution following a
public hearing for proposed utility assessments. All city utility accounts
unless exempt for other legal reasons, which have been billed a delinquent bill
and remain unpaid as of the certification cut-off date shall have the balance
on the account included in a preliminary certification list.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-8-12)
§ 55.05 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   A late payment penalty of 10% shall be assessed on all accounts with a
past due balance.
   (B)   Shut-off for nonpayment. Water shall not be shut off until notice and
an opportunity for a hearing before the City Council or an employee designated
by the City Council have been provided to the occupant and owner of the
premises involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill and is
delinquent by 60 days will be mailed by first class mail a past due/
disconnection notice letter and it shall state that if payment is not made
within ten days of the date of the notice, water service to the premises will
be shut off for non-payment.
      (2)   The past due/disconnection notice shall contain the title, address
and telephone number of the billing entity and shall be clearly visible and
readable.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that any occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the water service is disconnected. The owner or
occupant may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his
or her choosing. The owner or occupant may present orally or in writing his or
her complaint to the City Council. The City Council may authorize the official
in charge of utility billing to continue the customer's service , adjust the
customer's bill, or enter into a mutually agreeable payment plan.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the water shall not be
shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this division, service will be shut off at the time specified in the notice but
not until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 60 days.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes. Unpaid charges on sewer and
water accounts shall not be certified to the county auditor until notice and
opportunity for a hearing have been provided to the owner of the premises
involved. The notice shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if
payment is not made before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid
plus penalties will be certified to the county auditor for collection as other
taxes are collected. The notice shall also state that the occupant may, before
such certification date, attend the scheduled hearing on the matter to object
to certification of unpaid utility charges.
   (D)   The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the balance
due on the account until the date the notice of the certification hearing is
mailed. After the date the notice of certification hearing is mailed, payments
will still be accepted but will include unpaid penalties.
   (E)   A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Council. Property
owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to object to the
certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are collected. If,
after the hearing, the City Council finds that the amounts claimed as
delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal reason why
the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes in
accordance with this chapter, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
county auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
   (F)   For each certification sustained, the property owner shall have the
following options after the hearing:
      (1)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within ten days of the hearing
date.
      (2)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county certification deadline, with no interest or assessment fee.
      (3)   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by the county on
their property tax statement with a collection term of one year. Interest and
the city assessment fee will be included in the amount due on the property tax
statement.
   (G)   The certified roll, minus any payments along with the City Council
Resolution will be delivered to the county prior to certification deadline of
November 30.
   (H)   Payments received on delinquent accounts after submission of the
certification list to the county will be applied as credits to the current
utility account. The certified utility bill balance will be adjusted on utility
accounts affected.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-8-12)
§ 55.06 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to any procedures or penalties provided for in this chapter, if
any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter, the Council or any city official designated by it may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment and or enforce
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 5-8-12) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
   
70.01   Squealing tires; erratic driving prohibited
   
70.02   Weight restrictions
§ 70.01 SQUEALING TIRES; ERRATIC DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall operate a vehicle on a public highway, street, parking
lot, alley or other public property in a manner as to cause the tires to
squeal, the gears to grind or the motor to backfire, except when an emergency
creates the necessity for the operation.
   (B)   No person shall drive a vehicle on a public highway, street, parking
lot, alley or other public property at erratic or irregular and changing speeds
so as to create a hazard to himself, herself or other persons or property or so
interfere with other traffic in the area.
(Ord. 12.03, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 70.02 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The weight restrictions for commercial vehicles traveling on city
streets shall be four tons per axle. This restriction should apply directly to
commercial vehicles not servicing a business or residence of the city. The
intent of this section is to prohibit commercial vehicles that exceed the
weight limit from driving on the city streets to travel through the city.
   (B)   Exclusions from this code would include, but are not limited to city
contractors, school buses, charter buses and delivery trucks which are
providing a service to residents or business owners in the city.
(Ord. 98-07, passed 9-8-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Angle and parallel parking
   
71.02   Parking during winter months
   
71.03   Parking during summer months
   
71.04   Semi-tractors; towing
   
71.05   Parking ban
   
71.06   Municipal property parking restrictions
§ 71.01 ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Angle or diagonal parking will be allowed in areas designated
and identified by the City Council.
      (2)   Angle or diagonal parking will be prohibited in residential
development areas such as culs- de-sac.
   (B)   On the south side of a street, unless otherwise ordered by proper
signs, parking shall be with the right side of the vehicle parallel to the
curb.
(Ord. 12.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-84; Am. Ord. 98-08, passed 12-9-
98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.02 PARKING DURING WINTER MONTHS.
   No vehicle shall be left standing or parked between 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
on any street or highway within the city limits. This provision shall be in
force between 12:01 a.m. on November 1 of every year and 11:59 p.m. on March 31
of the following year. Following any snowfall between these dates, it shall be
unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle on any street from 2:00 a.m. or
until such time as snow plowing curb-to-curb has been completed on such street.
The Wright County Sheriff's Department will be authorized to tow any vehicle
which is in violation of this section upon a request from an authorized city
staff member. The City Clerk will issue parking permits to owners of vehicles
who request a variance from the regulation due to special circumstances.
(Ord. 12.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-84; Am. Ord. 98-08, passed 12-9-
98; Am. Ord. 13-01, passed 12-10-13; Am. Ord.19-01, passed 2-12-19) Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 71.03 PARKING DURING SUMMER MONTHS.
   During the period from April 1 to October 31, no person shall park or permit
to remain parked on any city street, any vehicle for a period exceeding five
days.
(Ord. 12.02, passed - -; Am. Ord. passed 11-13-84; Am. Ord. 98-08, passed 12-9-
98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 SEMI-TRACTORS; TOWING.
   (A)   Semi-tractor parking. Semi-tractors will be allowed to park in all
zone districts within the city provided that they are parked off street and
have the motor turned off.
   (B)   Semi-trailer parking. Semi-trailers are not allowed to park in any
residential area within the city.
   (C)   Exclusion. Semi-trailers may be parked in other areas which are
designated as commercial or industrial areas as long as they are parked on
private property.
   (D)   Towing. The Wright County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to tow
any vehicle which is in violation of this section.
(Ord. 98-06, passed 8-11-98; Am. Ord. 02-04, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 02-09,
passed 8-13-02)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.05 PARKING BAN.
   A parking ban will be in full force in all directions at the intersection of
U.S. Highway 12 and CSAH 8 on CSAH 8 for the distance of 300 feet. The parking
ban will be in force 24 hours per day. A parking ban will be in full force on
Highway 12 on its entire length within the city.
(Ord. 98-05, passed 7-14-98)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.06 MUNICIPAL PROPERTY PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The parking of vehicles, trucks, construction equipment, work
trailers, recreational vehicles, and the like upon municipal owned property
shall be restricted to a 12-hour limit unless special permission is issued by a
city employee, representative, or the City Council. Special permission by an
agent of the city will expire in 72 hours from the date the permission is
granted. Parking situations that will exceed 72 hours will require an extension
of the special permit by an authorized agent of the city. Municipal property
includes any city owned property such as parks, parking lots, park and ride
lots, city building parking areas, and any property owned by the city.
   (B)   The parking of buses and trucks over 5,000 pounds gross vehicle
weight, recreational vehicles including but not limited to boats and campers,
construction equipment, work trailers, and any detached trailers on city
streets (including dead ends, street stubs, and cul-de-sacs) and county roads
within the city limits shall be restricted to a 24-hour limit unless special
permission is issued by a city employee or member of the City Council. Special
permission granted by an authorized representative of the city will expire in a
72-hour period. An extension will be required for all parking that will exceed
the 72-hour time limit.
   (C)   The Wright County Sheriff’s Department is authorized to tow any
vehicles which are in violation of this section.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 1-8-02; Am. Ord. 09-03, passed 7-14-09; Am. Ord. 11-05,
passed 9-13-11; Am. Ord. 17-03, passed 4-11-17)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Certain statutes adopted by reference
   
72.02   Other unlawful acts
§ 72.01 CERTAIN STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the regulatory and procedural
provisions of M.S. §§84.81 through 84.928, inclusive as amended through 1997,
are hereby adopted by reference, incorporated herein, and made a part hereof,
except as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-13-07)
§ 72.02 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or recreational motor
vehicle (such as snowmobiles, all terrain vehicles, motorized golf carts, and
the like) as follows:
   (A)   On any lands, including school grounds, hospital grounds, cemeteries,
churches, and golf courses, without lawful authority or permission of the owner
or occupant;
   (B)   Other than on the right-hand side of a roadway;
   (C)   In excess of 20 miles per hour on any street or alley;
   (D)   On any street or alley other than on a direct route to and from a
specific destination;
   (E)   On private property unless the operator has been provided oral or
written authority by the owner of the private property;
   (F)   On the boulevard along the curb of any city street unless the operator
has been provided oral or written authority by the city;
   (G)   On any public sidewalk;
   (H)   On any public park located within the city;
    (I)   Headlights and taillights must be on and showing;
   (J)   Running or leaving keys in an unattended vehicle; and/or
   (K)   No snowmobiling on any streets from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. except to
return home by the shortest route.
(Ord. 07-02, passed 2-13-07)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
91.   ABANDONED PROPERTY
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   FIRE CODE; FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   PUBLIC PARK REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Assessable current services
   
90.02   Tree diseases
Nuisances
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Nuisances
   
90.17   Violations
   
90.18   Disclosure of responsible party
   
90.19   Inspection of unoccupied buildings
   
90.20   Order to cease
   
90.21   Enforcement officer authorized to enter
   
90.22   Authority to abate
   
90.23   Service
   
90.24   Abatement procedure
   
90.25   Substantial abatement procedure
   
90.26   Emergency abatement procedure
   
90.27   Other remedies
Weeds
   
90.35   Short title
   
90.36   Jurisdiction
   
90.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
90.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
90.39   Filing complaint
   
90.40   Notice of violations
   
90.41   Appeals
   
90.42   Abatement by city
   
90.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
90.60   Definitions
   
90.61   Prohibited materials
   
90.62   Permit required for open burning
   
90.63   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
90.64   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
90.65   Permit process for open burning
   
90.66   Permit holder responsibility
   
90.67   Revocation of open burning permit
   
90.68   Denial of open burning permit
   
90.69   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
90.70   Rules and laws adopted by reference
Noises Prohibited
   
90.85   General prohibition
   
90.86   Horns, audible signaling devices
   
90.87   Permit required for open burning
   
90.88   Defective vehicles or loads
   
90.89   Loading, unloading and unpacking
   
90.90   Radios, phonographs, paging systems
   
90.91   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings
   
90.92   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising
   
90.93   Animals
   
90.94   Schools, churches, hospitals
   
90.95   Hourly restrictions on certain operations
   
90.96   Exception for emergency work
   
90.97   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to
sidewalks or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or
safety hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included
in M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk/Treasurer or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The
City Clerk/Treasurer or other designated person shall keep a record showing the
cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property under this
code, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of the total cost of the
installation or repair against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall report the
facts to the City Council and the City Council shall, by resolution, order the
work done by contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall
keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or
parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk/Treasurer, or other designated official, shall
prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (G)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object or contrivance upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment
or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum
weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of
the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or
moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner
and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage. Any person
who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that act damages any
public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which amount shall be
collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service
and charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which
they are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under the authority
of M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Oak Wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; or
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance, as defined in division (A) of this section, to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may, by
resolution, order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall keep a record of the
costs of abatement done under this section for all work done for which
assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land,
lots, parcels involved and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each
separate lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The
City Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the
property involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101, as
it may be amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection the following year along
with the current taxes.
Penalty, see § 10.99
NUISANCES
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the meaning of the following terms,
phrases, words, and their derivations shall be construed as set forth in such
definition.
   ABANDONED BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof which has stood with an
incomplete exterior shell for longer than three years or any building or
portion thereof which has stood unoccupied for longer than one year and which
meets one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Unsecured;
      (2)   Boarded;
      (3)   Having multiple exterior housing code or building violations; or
      (4)   Placarded as "Unfit for Human Habitation" pursuant to the city and
Minnesota Codes.
   ABATEMENT DEADLINE. The date by which the nuisance must be abated as
specified in a written order.
   ANNOYANCES. Any condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or endangers
the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable number of
members of the public.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURE. Any structure which is potentially dangerous to persons
or property including specifically, but not exclusively:
      (1)   A structure which is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   A structure which has any exterior parts such as chimneys, eaves,
porches, siding, railings, or trim which are loose or in danger of falling; or
      (3)   A structure which has any parts such as porches, stairs, ramps,
rails, balconies, or roofs which are accessible and which are collapsed, in
danger of collapsing, or unable to support a person.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The City Clerk, Fire Chief, Health Officer, or a duly
authorized representative.
   EXTERMINATION. The eradication of vermin by methods such as poison,
fumigation, or trapping.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any material so defined by Minnesota Statutes or Minnesota
Code of Agency Rules.
   ILLEGAL ACTIVITIES. Any action or condition which constitutes a violation of
law.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any owner of record, occupying tenant, or lien holder of
record.
   JUNK. Accumulations of discarded or disused machinery, household appliances,
automobile bodies, broken or unused metal, wood, lumber, cement, electrical
fixtures, plumbing fixtures, building materials except for building materials
awaiting use in construction or improvement presently in progress on the same
premises, trash, debris, rubbish situated outside of a building or if situated
inside a building stored in such a manner as to constitute a fire, health or
safety hazard or in a manner conducive to the harboring of vermin.
   LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address shown on the records of the Wright County
Auditor or a more recent address known to the enforcement officer. In the case
of parties not listed in the Auditor's records, the last known address shall be
that address obtained by the officer after a reasonable search.
   NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES. Substances solid, liquid, or gas, which are offensive,
detrimental to health, hurtful, or dangerous. Noxious substances shall include
specifically, but not exclusively, any dead animal, putrid carcass, decayed
animal matter, green hides, or any putrid, spoiled, foul, or stinking beef,
pork, fish, offal, hides, skins, fat, grease or liquors, human or animal
excrement, manure, or sewage.
   NUISANCE. Any substance, matter, emission, or thing which creates a
dangerous or unhealthy condition or which threatens the public peace, health,
safety, or sanitary condition of the city or which is offensive or has a
blighting influence on the community and which is found upon, in, or being
discharged or flowing from any street, alley, highway, railroad right-of-way,
vehicle, railroad car, water, excavation, building, erection, lot, grounds, or
other property located within the city.
   OBSTRUCTIONS. Objects or conditions which interfere with, endanger or
prevent the ordinary or safe use of any property.
   OWNER. Any person shown to be the owner of the property on the records of
the Wright County Auditor.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. Service by personally handing a copy to the intended
recipient or by leaving a copy at the intended recipient's residence with a
person of suitable age and discretion then residing therein.
   PRIVY. Any type of non-flush fixture for the receipt and storage of human
waste including specifically, but not exclusively, fixed units with vaults as
well as portable units.
   PROPERTY. Any parcel of land whether vacant or not, whether any structure
thereon is occupied or not, or whether submerged or not.
   REFUSE. Putrescible and non-putrescible and combustible and noncombustible
waste, including specifically, but not exclusively, paper, garbage, material
resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving and
consumption of food, vegetable or animal matter, offal, rubbish, plant wastes
such as tree trimmings or grass cuttings, ashes, incinerator residue, street
cleanings, construction debris, detached vehicle parts and unlicensed vehicles
which are not stored inside a building, and industrial and market wastes.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Agent;
      (2)   Collector of rents or assignee;
      (3)   Holder of a contract or deed;
      (4)   A mortgagee or vendee in possession;
      (5)   Receiver or executer or trustee;
      (6)   Lessee; or
      (7)   Other person, firm, or corporation exercising apparent control over
a property.
   SERVICE BY MAIL. Depositing the item with the United States Postal Service
addressed to the intended recipient at his or her last known address with first
class postage prepaid thereon.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING. A building which is not being used for a legal
occupancy or a building which has been ordered vacated by the city.
   UNSECURED. Shall mean:
      (1)   Open to entry by unauthorized persons without the use of tools or
ladders; or
      (2)   Open to the elements because of broken, cracked or missing windows,
doors, siding, molding, brick, stucco, concrete, metal, roofing or other
exterior building surfaces.
   VERMIN. Shall mean specifically, but not exclusively, rats, mice, skunks,
raccoons, chipmunks, woodchucks, snakes, bats, grackles, starlings, pigeons,
bees, wasps, hornets, cockroaches or flies.
   WEEDS. Useless and troublesome plants commonly known as weeds including
specifically, but not exclusively, noxious weeds such as cockleburr, burdock,
tumble mustard, wild mustard, wild oats, Canadian Thistle, oxeye daisy, quack
grass, Frenchweed, and Russian thistle.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.16 NUISANCES.
   Nuisances, which shall include specifically, but not exclusively, the
following, are prohibited:
   (A)   Junk, refuse, noxious substances, hazardous wastes. Junk, refuse,
noxious substances, or hazardous wastes laying, pooled, accumulated, piled,
left, deposited, buried or discharged upon, in, being discharged or flowing
from, any property, body of water, structure, or vehicle; except for:
      (1)   Junk, refuse deposited at places designated and provided for that
purpose in accordance with the regulations of the city;
      (2)   Junk, refuse stored in accordance with the regulations of the city;
      (3)   Compost piles established and maintained in accordance with the
regulations;
      (4)   Dead animals buried in accordance with the regulations of the city;
      (5)   Green hides received, stored, dressed, packed, or sold in
accordance with the regulations of the city; and
      (6)   Sewage discharged in accordance with the regulations of the city.
   (B)   Firewood. Piles of firewood in excess of 200 cubic feet stored closer
than ten feet to buildings used for human habitation, piles of firewood higher
than six feet to point of elevation from ground, or piles of firewood harboring
vermin.
   (C)   Weeds. Grass or weeds which have grown upon any property to a height
of eight or more inches or which have gone to seed.
   (D)   Stagnant water. Stagnant water standing on any property and any
property, container, or material kept in such a condition that water can
accumulate and stagnate.
   (E)   Vermin harborage. Conditions which in the opinion of the enforcement
officer are conducive to the harboring or breeding of vermin including
specifically, but not exclusively, materials stored less than 12 inches off the
ground.
   (F)   Vermin infestations. Infestations of vermin except for bees or pigeons
kept in accordance with the regulations of the city.
   (G)   Sanitary structures. Structures for sanitation such as privies,
vaults, sewers, private drains, septic tanks, cesspools, or drain fields which
have failed or do not function properly or which are overflowing, leaking, or
emanating odors. Septic tanks, cesspools, or cisterns which are abandoned or no
longer in use unless they are emptied and filled with clean fill. Any vault,
cesspool, or septic tank which does not meet the following criteria:
      (1)   The bottom and sides are cemented to be impervious to water;
      (2)   The bottom is at least six feet below grade;
      (3)   Proper ventilating pipes and covers are provided;
      (4)   Located at least 20 feet from any house, residence, building, or
public street;
      (5)   Cleaned at least once a year; and
      (6)   The property served is located such that connection to the public
sewer is not available.
   (H)   Manure vaults. Manure vaults which have become offensive. Manure
vaults for stables where more than two horses are kept which are not cleaned
twice in each week.
   (I)   Unsecured building. Building or portion thereof which is unsecured.
   (J)   Dangerous structure. Dangerous structure.
   (K)   Abandoned building. Abandoned building.
   (L)   Safety hazard. Any thing or condition on property which, in the
opinion of the enforcement officer, may contribute to injury of any person
present on the property. Safety hazards shall include specifically, but not
exclusively, open holes, open foundations, open wells, wires which are too
close to the ground or in violation of any applicable safety code, dangerous
trees or limbs, abandoned refrigerators, or barbed wire fences less than six
feet above the ground and within three feet of a public sidewalk or way,
dangerous and unguarded machinery in any public place or so situated, stored or
operated on private property so as to attract the public, antennae erected or
maintained in a dangerous manner, or trapping devices.
   (M)   Fire hazard. Any thing or condition on property which, in the opinion
of the enforcement officer, creates a fire hazard or which is a violation of
the Fire Code.
   (N)   Health hazard. Any thing or condition on property which, in the
opinion of the enforcement officer creates a health hazard or which is a
violation of any health or sanitation law including specifically, but not
exclusively, the following:
      (1)   Public exposure of persons having a contagious disease;
      (2)   Diseased animals not under treatment; or
      (3)   Diseased animals running at large.
   (O)   Statutory and common law nuisance. Any thing or condition on property
which is known to the common law of the land, the Statutes of Minnesota, or the
city code including specifically, but not exclusively, the Waverly Zoning
Ordinance, as a nuisance.
   (P)   Obstructions. Obstructions shall include specifically, but not
exclusively, the following:
      (1)   Snow and ice not removed from the public sidewalks within 24-hours
after the precipitation has ceased to fall;
      (2)   Rain, ice, or snow or wastewater falling or flowing from private
property or buildings onto public property except gutters, drainage ways and
storm sewers;
      (3)   Use of a public street or sidewalk or use of property abutting a
public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic, streets or sidewalks, except in accordance with the
regulations of the city;
      (4)   Excavations obstructing public property except in accordance with
the regulations of the city;
      (5)   Placing or storing boxes, goods, wares, merchandise, building
materials, machinery, business or trade articles on public property, except for
the purpose of immediately transferring the same to some other proper place;
      (6)   Placing or throwing on any public property of any glass, tacks,
nails, bottles, or other substances which may injure any person, animal or
property or damage any pneumatic tire or vehicle when passing over such
substance;
      (7)   Signs, awnings, vegetation or other objects located on private
property which are not constructed and maintained as required by law, which
prevent persons from having a clear view of all traffic approaching
intersection, or which overhang and obstruct public property;
      (8)   Obstructing the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other substances; or
      (9)   Digging, excavating, placing culverts, placing dams, or doing any
act which alters or affects the drainage of property or alters or affects flows
of the public storm sewer and drainage ditch system except in accordance with
the regulations of the city.
   (Q)   Burial. The burial or entombment of any remains of a deceased human
being except within a public or private cemetery established under law.
   (R)   Open burning. Open burning in violation of §§
90.60 through
90.70.
   (S)   Annoyances. Annoyances shall include specifically, but not
exclusively, the following:
      (1)   Noises, odors, vibrations or emissions of smoke, fumes, gas, soot,
cinders, ash or otherwise which exceed the standards of the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency, or if no standard is then in effect, which have an unreasonable
and adverse effect;
      (2)   Operation of artificial lighting facilities upon private property
without an effective shade or equivalent device to protect nearby residential
premises from being adversely affected thereby; and
      (3)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by law and not otherwise
licensed by the city.
   (T)   Illegal activities. Illegal activities shall include specifically, but
not exclusively, the following:
      (1)   Gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards except, as
permitted by law;
      (2)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations
except, as permitted by law;
      (3)   Houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
conduct, gambling, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
      (4)   Places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, persons are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining such a place; and
      (5)   Vehicles used for the illegal transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual conduct or any other illegal purpose.
   (U)   Vehicle violations. Vehicle violations shall include specifically, but
not exclusively, the following:
      (1)   Unlicensed vehicles which are not stored inside a building;
      (2)   The parking of vehicles, on or in front of a residential lot, which
exceeds double the number of persons residing on the premises and having a
valid driver's license (except for short term parking (eight hours or less) and
guest parking not to exceed two days); and
      (3)   The parking of passenger vehicles and trucks, on or off street, in
an inoperative state in residential districts for a period exceeding seven
days; inoperative shall mean incapable of movement under their own power and in
need of repairs.
   (V)   Any other act or omission declared by law to be a nuisance and for
which no penalty is specifically provided.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.17 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, directly, indirectly or by omission, create a
nuisance.
   (B)   No responsible party shall allow a nuisance to remain upon or in any
property, structure or vehicle under his control.
   (C)   No owner of any truck, trailer, railroad car, or other vehicle shall
leave the vehicle standing on or along any street, highway, freeway, or
railroad track, or other public or private property within the city carrying or
containing any refuse, noxious substance, or hazardous waste, except as
otherwise permitted by the city code.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.18 DISCLOSURE OF RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   Upon the request of the enforcement officer, a responsible party or owner
shall disclose the name of any other responsible party or owner known to him or
her. This shall include specifically, but not exclusively, the persons for whom
he or she is acting, from whom he or she is leasing the property, to whom he or
she is leasing the property, with whom he or share shares joint ownership, or
with whom he or she has any conveyancing contract.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.19 INSPECTION OF UNOCCUPIED BUILDINGS.
   An owner or responsible party shall, upon the request of the enforcement
officer, provide the officer with access to all interior portions of any
unoccupied buildings in order to permit the officer to make a complete
inspection.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.20 ORDER TO CEASE.
   In the event that an enforcement officer observes a person creating a
nuisance, the officer may, after presenting proper identification, order that
the person cease creating a nuisance.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.21 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER AUTHORIZED TO ENTER.
   The enforcement officer shall be authorized to enter any property or
structure in the city for the purpose of enforcing and assuring compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.22 AUTHORITY TO ABATE.
   (A)   The city is authorized to abate nuisances in accordance with the
procedures set forth in §§
90.24,
90.25, and
90.26. All abatement costs incurred shall be charged against the property as a
special assessment to be collected in the manner provided for in the city code,
Ch. 47, except when a request is filed for a review of an emergency abatement.
The assessment hearing shall be replaced by the hearing provided for in §
90.26.
   (B)   Abatement may include specifically, but not exclusively, removing,
cleaning, exterminating, cutting, mowing, grading, repairing, draining,
securing, boarding, barricading, fencing, and demolishing.
   (C)   Abatement costs shall include specifically, but not exclusively, the
costs of the abatement; the cost of investigation, such as title searches,
inspection, and testing; the cost of notification; filing costs; and
administrative costs.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.23 SERVICE.
   When service of an order or notice is required, any one or more of the
following methods of service shall be adequate:
   (A)   Personal service;
   (B)   Service by mail, unless it is a written order which gives three days
or less for the completion of any act required by the order;
   (C)   If the appropriate party or address cannot be determined after
reasonable effort, by posting a copy of the order in a conspicuous place on the
property; or
   (D)   If a mailed order or notice is returned by the United States Postal
Service, a good faith effort shall be made to determine the correct address,
unless the order or notice orders abatement and that abatement has been
completed.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.24 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Unless the nuisance is as described in §§
90.25 or
90.26, or the city may abate the nuisance by the procedure described below.
   (A)   Order. The enforcement officer shall serve a written order upon the
owner and any responsible party known to the officer, The order may also be
served upon any party known to have caused the nuisance. The order shall
contain:
      (1)   A description of the property sufficient for identification which
shall include the legal description;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance and the basis upon which it is
declared to be a nuisance;
      (4)   The remedial action required to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   The abatement deadline, as determined by the enforcement officer
allowing a reasonable time for the performance of any act required;
      (6)   A statement that the order may be appealed and a hearing before the
City Council obtained by filing a written request with the City Clerk before
the appeal deadline which shall be the abatement deadline designated in the
order or seven calendar days after the date of the order, whichever comes
first; and
      (7)   A statement that unless the remedial action is taken before the
abatement deadline or unless a request for a hearing is filed with the City
Clerk within the time specified, the city may abate the nuisance and charge all
costs incurred against the property as a special assessment to be collected in
the same manner as taxes.
   (B)   Setting hearing date. In the event that an appeal is filed with the
City Clerk, the City Council shall within three weeks fix a date for a hearing.
   (C)   Notice. The City Clerk shall mail a notice of the date, time, place,
and subject of the hearing to the owner and known responsible parties.
   (D)   Hearing. At the time of the hearing, the City Council shall hear from
the enforcement officer and any other persons who wish to be heard. After the
hearing, the City Council shall adopt a resolution confirming or modifying the
order of the enforcement officer. If the Council's resolution requires
abatement, the Council shall fix a time within which the nuisance must be
abated and provide that unless corrective action is taken or unless the
Council's determination is appealed to the District Court within the time
specified, the city may abate the nuisance. The City Clerk shall mail a copy of
the resolution to the owner and known responsible parties.
   (E)   Abatement. Unless the remedial action is taken or an appeal to the
District Court filed within the time specified, the city may abate the
nuisance.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.25 SUBSTANTIAL ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   When the enforcement officer determines that a nuisance exists on a
property, and the cost of abatement of the nuisance is estimated to exceed
$2,000, or the abatement involves demolition of a building other than a
structure accessory to a residential building, or the abatement substantially
diminishes the value of the property, and except in the case of an emergency as
provided for in §
90.26, the city may abate the nuisance by the procedure described below. A good
faith estimate of the abatement costs, not the actual cost calculated after the
abatement is completed, shall be the basis for determining which abatement
procedure shall be used.
   (A)   Order. The enforcement officer shall serve a written order upon the
owner, all interested parties, and any responsible party known to the officer.
The order shall contain the following:
      (1)   A description of the property sufficient for identification which
shall include the legal description;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance and the basis upon which it is
declared to be a nuisance;
      (4)   The remedial action required to abate the nuisance;
      (5)   The abatement deadline, as determined by the enforcement officer
allowing a reasonable time for the performance of any act required; and
      (6)   A statement that unless the remedial action is taken before the
abatement deadline, the matter will be referred to the City Council which may
order the city after a hearing to abate the nuisance and charge all costs
incurred against the property as a special assessment to be collected in the
same manner as taxes.
   (B)   Setting hearing date. Unless the remedial action is taken within the
time specified in the written order, the enforcement officer may notify the
City Council that substantial abatement is necessary and appropriate. Upon
being notified by the enforcement officer, the City Council shall within three
weeks fix a date for a hearing.
   (C)   Notice. Written notice of the time, date, place and subject of the
hearing shall be given as follows:
      (1)   At least ten days prior to the hearing, the enforcement officer
shall serve the notice upon the owner and interested parties by personal
service. If, after reasonable effort, personal service cannot be made, either
of the following methods of notice shall be considered adequate:
         (a)   Confirmed mail service which is either certified mail with
signed receipt returned or first class mail confirmed by written response; or
         (b)   Mailing the notice to the last known address and publishing the
notice once a week for two weeks in the official newspaper and posting the
notice in a conspicuous place on the building or property.
      (2)   At least ten days prior to the hearing, the enforcement officer
shall mail a notice to any responsible party known to the enforcement officer.
   (D)   Hearing. At the time of the hearing, the City Council shall hear from
the enforcement officer and any other persons who wish to be heard. After the
hearing, the City Council shall adopt a resolution confirming or modifying the
order of the enforcement officer. If the Council's resolution requires
abatement, the Council shall fix a time within which the nuisance must be
abated and provide that unless corrective action is taken or unless the
Council's determination is appealed to the District Court within the time
specified, the city may abate the nuisance and charge all costs incurred
against the property as a special assessment to be collected in the same manner
as taxes. The enforcement officer shall mail copies of the resolution to any of
the persons required to be notified in division (C) for whom the enforcement
officer has a current mailing address.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.26 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   When the enforcement officer determines that a nuisance exists on a property
and the nuisance constitutes an immediate danger or hazard which if not
immediately abated will endanger the health or safety of the public and there
does not exist sufficient time to follow the procedures of §§
90.25 or
90.26, the city may abate the nuisance by the procedure described below.
   (A)   Order by Mayor. The city may order emergency abatement by an
administrative order signed by the Mayor. A good faith effort shall be made to
inform the owner of the action being taken.
   (B)   Notice of the abatement. Following an emergency abatement and as soon
as the costs incurred are known to the enforcement officer, he or she shall
serve written notice upon the owner. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the property sufficient for identification which
shall include the legal description;
      (2)   The location of the nuisance;
      (3)   A description of the nuisance and the basis upon which it is
declared to be a nuisance;
      (4)   The remedial action taken by the city;
      (5)   The reasons for immediate action;
      (6)   The costs incurred in abating the nuisance; and
      (7)   A statement that, unless the owner requests a hearing before the
City Council to review the actions taken by the city by filing a written
request with the City Clerk within 14 calendar days after the date of the
notice, the city will charge all costs incurred against the property as a
special assessment to be collected in the same manner as taxes.
   (C)   Setting hearing date. In the event that a request for a review is
filed with the City Clerk, the City Council shall within three weeks fix a date
for a hearing.
   (D)   Notice. At least ten days prior to the hearing, the City Clerk shall
mail notice of the date, time, place and subject of the hearing to the owner.
   (E)   Hearing. At the time of the hearing, the City Council shall hear from
the enforcement officer and any other persons who wish to be heard. After the
hearing, the City Council may adopt a resolution levying a special assessment
for all, or a portion of the costs incurred in abating the nuisance. The
enforcement officer shall mail a copy of the resolution to the owner.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
§ 90.27 OTHER REMEDIES.
   The city, in it sole discretion, may criminally prosecute any violations
and/or seek abatement of the nuisance, as outlined herein. Nothing in this
chapter shall be construed to limit the authority of the city under other
provisions of the city code.
(Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
WEEDS
§ 90.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Subchapter.”
§ 90.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
§ 90.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes, but is not limited to the
following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (4)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding eight inches;
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants; and/or
         (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Am. Ord. 08-03, passed 8-12-08)
§ 90.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property which is in excess of eight inches
in height. Haying of grass/weeds is prohibited.
(Am. Ord. 07-03, passed 6-12-07; Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-11-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated and
filed with the City Clerk/Treasurer. If the city makes a complaint, an
employee, officer or Council member of the city shall file the complaint in all
respects set out above.
(Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-11-17)
§ 90.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds or long grass
in violation of this subchapter, the city shall cause the property to be
inspected. If a violation is found, a notice shall be sent to the property
owner as that information is contained within the records of the City Clerk/
Treasurer. The notice shall be served in writing via regular mail and shall
describe the violation and provide that unless the violation is corrected
within ten days from the date of mailing, the city shall cause the violation(s)
to be corrected and shall assess its costs to the property owner. The notice
shall also provide that the property owner may appeal the violation order by
contacting the City Clerk in writing no later than five days from the date of
mailing. Only one notice shall be sent during each spring/summer season. If
violations continue during the same calendar year, the city shall continue to
cause the violation(s) to be corrected without further notice to the property
owner. Upon initial notice of a violation, it shall be the property owner's
responsibility to ensure that the property does not continue to violate this
subchapter during the same spring/summer season.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk/Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
(Am. Ord. 08-03, passed 8-12-08; Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-11-17)
§ 90.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing notice of objections with the
City Council no later than five days from the date of mailing if the property
owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is the property owner’s
responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question is shrubs, trees,
cultivated plants or crops or is not otherwise in violation of this subchapter,
and should not be subject to destruction under the subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
(Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-11-17)
§ 90.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   Unless a notice of appeal has been properly filed and is pending, if the
property owner has failed to comply with the violation notice within ten days
from the date of mailing, the city shall cause the violation to be corrected
and may utilize the services of city employees or outside contractors and
remove the grass/weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means.
(Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-11-17)
§ 90.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs associated with the
violation including but not limited to removal, cutting or destruction of
weeds, as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk/Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment, as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Am. Ord. 17-02, passed 4-11-17)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a RECREATIONAL FIRE, as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
noncombustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile or blocks or ferrous metal only an which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE, as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, “presto logs,”
charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. The term does not include
wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked or treated
with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for recreational
fires when cut into three-foot lengths.
§ 90.61 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning oils, petro
fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials or other materials which
produce excessive or noxious smoke such as tires, railroad ties, treated,
painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar paper, insulation, composition
board, Sheetrock, wiring, paint or paint fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of hazardous
waste or salvage operations, open burning of solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process or from a service or commercial
establishment or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation, serving
or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit open burning of any leaves or
grass clippings except annually during the period designated by this division
regulating the open burning of leaves.
      (1)   Burning permitted. Subject to the provisions of M.S. § 116.082, the
open burning of dried leaves between September 15 and December 1 is hereby
allowed, subject to the limits and conditions specified in this division.
      (2)   Limits and conditions. The burning leaves will only be permitted
under the following limits and conditions:
         (a)   The open burning of leaves and grass clippings will only be
permitted between September 15 and December 1.
         (b)   Burning shall be limited only to the areas of the city zoned
“residential”.
         (c)   A fire shall not be less than five feet from any property line
or within 25 feet of any building, lumber pile, wood yard, hay stack, or other
combustible material.
         (d)   A responsible person shall be in constant attendance until the
fire is completely extinguished.
         (e)   Burning will only be allowed during daylight hours.
         (f)   The burning of leaves is prohibited on city streets, alleys,
sidewalks, boulevards, or any public parking by private citizens.
         (g)   No burning shall take place during an air pollution alert, high
fire danger, warning or other emergency declared by this city, the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA), or the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources (DNR).
         (h)   The Fire Chief, or another local fire authority designee, will
have the authority to discontinue a burn when:
            1.   A fire hazard exists or develops during the course of the
burn.
            2.   It is determined that the smoke emissions are offensive to
occupants of the surrounding property.
      (3)   Copy to state agencies. A copy of this division, or any amendment
thereof, shall be submitted to the MPCA and the DNR.
(Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 4-14-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.62 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire, as defined in
§ 90.60.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.63 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire of health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on site, diseased or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives; and
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, nonglued lumber and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.64 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established in by Council ordinance or resolution.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.65 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and permit
fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals shall schedule a
preliminary site inspection to locate the proposed burn site, note special
conditions and set dates and time of permitted burn and review fire safety
considerations.
§ 90.66 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication and fire suppression equipment as set out in the fire
safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including but not limited to fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.67 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   The open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include but are not limited to a fire hazard existing or
developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the permit
being violated during the course of the burn, pollution or nuisance conditions
developing during the course of the burn or a fire smoldering with no flame
present.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.68 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 90.69 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or DNR has
officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire conditions or
when the MPCA has declared an Air Quality Alert.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.70 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 88.16 to 88.22 and the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, Minn. Rules Ch. 1510, as these statutes and rules may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of this
subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
Cross-reference:
   Fire Code; Fire Prevention, see
Ch. 94
NOISES PROHIBITED
§ 90.85 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall make or cause to be made any distinctly and loudly audible
noise that reasonably annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort,
repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of any person or precludes their
enjoyment of property or affects their property's value. This general
prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of the following
subdivisions.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.86 HORNS, AUDIBLE SIGNALING DEVICES.
   No person shall sound any audible signaling device on any vehicle except as
a warning of danger, as required by M.S. § 169.68.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.87 EXHAUST. 
   No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge of exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, or snowmobile except through a muffler or other device that
effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations. No engine braking is allowed within the
city limits.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02; Am. Ord. 10-05, passed 12-14-10)
§ 90.88 DEFECTIVE VEHICLES OR LOADS.
   No person shall use any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.89 LOADING, UNLOADING AND UNPACKING.
   No person shall create loud or excessive noise in loading, unloading, or
unpacking any vehicle.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.90 RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS PAGING SYSTEMS.
   No person shall use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio
receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine, or other
device for the production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly
audible manner as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any
person nearby. Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or
other device between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in such a manner as
to be plainly audible at the property line of the structure or building in
which it is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a distance of
50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.91 PARTICIPATION IN NOISY PARTIES OR GATHERINGS.
   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of people giving
rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of another
person. When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating such a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring to dispense
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.92 LOUDSPEAKERS, AMPLIFIERS FOR ADVERTISING.
   No person shall operate or permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker,
sound, amplifier, or other device for the production or reproduction of sound
on a street or other public place for the purpose of commercial advertising or
attracting the attention of the public to any commercial establishment or
vehicle.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.93 ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep any animal that unreasonably disturbs the comfort or
repose of persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued noise. For
purposes of this section, "disturbs the comfort or repose of persons in the
vicinity by its frequent or continued noise" means any one of the following:
   (1)   The animal noise occurs at a time between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. and
can be heard from a location outside the building and premises where the animal
is being kept, and the animal has made such noises intermittently for more than
three minutes with one minute or less lapse of time between each animal noise
during the three minute period; or
   (2)   The animal noise can be heard from a one block distance from the
location of the building and premises where the animal is being kept, and the
animal has made such noises intermittently for more than three minutes with one
minute or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the three minute
period; or
   (3)   The animal noise can be heard from a location outside the building and
premises where the animal is being kept, and the animal has made such noises
intermittently for a period of at least five minutes with one minute or less
lapse of time between each animal noise during the five minute period.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.94 SCHOOLS, CHURCHES, HOSPITALS.
   No person shall create any excessive noise on a street, alley, or public
grounds adjacent to any school, institution of learning, church, or hospital
when the noise unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or
disturbs or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs
indicate the presence of such institution.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.95 HOURLY RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Recreational Vehicles. No person shall, between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., drive or operate any minibike, snowmobile, or other
recreational vehicle not licensed for travel on public highways except for
persons traveling to their primary residence.
   (B)   Domestic Power Equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn mower,
power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or other
similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
   (C)   Refuse Hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse in
any residential district except between the hours of 5:00 a.m. and 8:30 p.m. on
any weekday and between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. on Saturdays. No
garbage collection activities are allowed on Sundays and Holidays.
   (D)   Construction Activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 8:30 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00
p.m. on Saturdays. No time period for construction activities is allowed on
Sundays or Holidays. A special permit may be applied for in extreme situations
that are due to weather related down time only. The permit fee will be
established by the Waverly City Council and included on the annual city fee
schedule.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.96 EXCEPTION FOR EMERGENCY WORK.
   Noise created exclusively in the performance of emergency work to preserve
the public health, safety, or welfare, or in the performance of emergency work
necessary to restore a public service or eliminate a public hazard shall be
exempt from the provisions of this subchapter for a period not to exceed 24
hours after the work is commenced. Persons responsible for such work shall
inform the local law enforcement agency of the need to initiate such work, of
if the work is commenced during non-business hours of the city, at the
beginning of business hours of the first business day thereafter. Any person
responsible for such emergency work shall take all reasonable actions to
minimize the amount of noise.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.97 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Enforcement Duties. The local law enforcement agency shall enforce the
provisions of this subchapter. The local law enforcement agent may inspect
private premises other than private residences and shall make all reasonable
efforts to prevent violations of this subchapter.
   (B)   Civil Remedies. This subchapter may be enforced by injunction, action
for abatement, or other appropriate civil remedy.
   (C)    Noise Impact Statements. The council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, or alteration, or project that may be
considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applied for or the zoning change requested.
   (D)   Criminal Penalties. Any violation of this subchapter involving the
operation of a motor vehicle is a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction, the
violator shall be punished as provided in
§ 10.99. Every person who violates any other provision of this subchapter is
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to the penalties
specified in
§ 10.99. In all cases the city shall be entitled to collect the costs of
prosecution to the extent outlined by law, Rules of Criminal Procedure, and the
Rules of Court. Each act of violation and each day a violation occurs or
continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 11-12-02)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.15 through
90.27 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine and/or imprisonment as set forth in M.S. § 609.03, as may be
amended.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §
90.61(D) is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed $1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the
costs of prosecution in either case.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 4-14-15; Am. Ord. 16-01, passed 2-9-16)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Disposition of abandoned property
Abandoned Vehicles
   
91.15   Findings and purpose
   
91.16   Definitions
   
91.17   Violation to abandon motor vehicle
   
91.18   Authority to impound vehicles
   
91.19   Sale; waiting periods
   
91.20   Notice of taking and sale
   
91.21   Right to reclaim
   
91.22   Operator’s deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
91.23   Disposition by impound lot
   
91.24   Disposal authority
   
91.25   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 DISPOSITION OF ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. Except for abandoned and junked vehicles, all property
lawfully coming into possession of the city shall be disposed of as provided in
this section which is adopted pursuant to M.S. § 471.195, as it may be amended
from time to time. Abandoned and junked vehicles shall be disposed of according
to the procedures of
§§ 91.15 et seq.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities are unavailable or
inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at a privately-owned
facility.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon release
to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conducted by the City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her designee after two-
weeks’ published notice setting forth the time and place of the sale and the
property to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the general fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, the
former owner shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of the property less the
costs of storage and the proportionate part of the cost of published notice and
other costs of the sale.
ABANDONED VEHICLES
§ 91.15 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Ch. 168B, and Minn. Rules Ch. 7035, as they may be amended from time to
time, are hereby adopted by reference. Sections
91.15 through
91.25 of this code are adopted under the authority of M.S. § 168B.09,
Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to time. If any of these
provisions are less stringent that the provisions of M.S. § 168B or Minn. Rules
Ch. 7035, as it may be amended from time to time, the statute or rule shall
take precedence.
§ 91.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.01 as it may be amended
from time to time, that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§ 91.18(B), without the consent of the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it may
be amended from time to time, is not considered an abandoned vehicle.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M.S. § 161.242 as
it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered abandoned
vehicles.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
impounds: public and nonpublic.
     IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding or
storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is three years old or older;
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given “motor vehicle” in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including such things as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONPUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under § 91.24.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to
§ 91.18(B), or M.S. § 169.041 as it may be amended from time to time, but is
not a junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including such things as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
§ 91.17 VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.18 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk/Treasurer or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the city may take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S.
§ 169.041 as it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be
impounded after it has been left unattended in one of the following public or
private locations for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 169.041 as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately;
         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four hours; or
      (2)    on private property:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, nonresidential property, not posted, 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted, immediately.
§ 91.19 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under
§ 91.23, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
subdivision; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under
§ 91.23, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be
an unauthorized vehicle.
§ 91.20 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under
§ 91.21; and
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under
§ 91.19 shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and interest in
the vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal
or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to
§ 91.23.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. The Department makes this information
available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be published once in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B) of
this section, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
§ 91.21 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under
§ 91.19, after the date of the notice required by
§ 91.20.
   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
§ 91.22 OPERATOR’S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   Twenty-five days storage for a vehicle described in
§ 91.19(A); and
      (2)   Fifty-five days storage for a vehicle described in
§ 91.19(B).
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under
§ 91.19 is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and consents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title.
§ 91.23 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under
§ 91.21, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible
pursuant to
§§ 91.20 and
91.21.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the city or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be disposed
of in accordance with
§ 91.24.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from
the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; nonpublic impound lots. The operator of a nonpublic
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) of this section. The operator may retain all proceeds
from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner’s agent before the sale, except that any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
§ 91.24 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
§ 91.25 CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.
   (A)   MPCA review and approval. If the city proposes to enter into a
contract with a person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a
contract pursuant to
§ 91.24, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is entered into by
the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste
management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract that does so
conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city. Where a
contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under
§ 91.23. Except as otherwise provided in
§ 91.24, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and request for bids from all persons duly licensed by
the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. § 116.07, as it
may be amended from time to time; does not provide for a full performance bond;
or does not provide for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a contract covering solely
collection or transportation of abandoned motor vehicles where the MPCA
determines total collection and transportation to be impracticable and where
all other requirements herein have been met and the unit of government, after
proper notice and request for bids, has not received any bid for total
collection and transportation of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)    The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own equipment and
personnel pursuant to its authority under
§ 91.24, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA’s plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the city may
be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are not
reimbursed under
§ 91.23.
   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that the city
contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal
pursuant to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste disposal. If the city fails to
contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the Department of
Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any person duly
licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Dog and Cat Regulations
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Keeping dogs and cats; license fee
   
92.03   Running at large
   
92.04   Abandonment prohibited
   
92.05   Dog pound established
   
92.06   Impoundment procedure
   
92.07   Rabies; vaccination and quarantine
   
92.08   Kennels
   
92.09   Disposition of monies
Standards for the Keeping of Animals
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Purpose
   
92.22   Keeping animals
General Regulations
   
92.35   Animal waste
 
   
92.99   Penalty
DOG AND CAT REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. An animal is AT LARGE when it is off the property of the person
owning, harboring or keeping the animal and it is not under restraint.
   PERSON. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring or keeping a dog.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. A dog is under restraint if it is on the premises of the
person harboring or keeping the dog; or is controlled by a leash not exceeding
six feet in length; or is at heel beside a person having custody of it or
obedient to the person’s command; or is within a private motor vehicle of a
person owning, harboring or keeping the dog.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83)
§ 92.02 KEEPING DOGS AND CATS; LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall own, harbor or keep any dog over three months of
age, for a period in excess of three days, without first having obtained a dog
license from the official Dog Warden. This section shall not apply to any
premises maintained by a licensed veterinarian or a licensed pet shop operator.
      (2)   Every person required to obtain a dog license under this chapter
shall place and keep around the neck of the dog a permanent-type collar to
which shall be securely attached the metallic license tag issued at the time
the license was applied for. No person shall make, sell, purchase, possess,
place or allow to be placed on any dog any metallic tag of the same form, shape
or appearance as the official metallic license tag.
      (3)   The initial dog license fee, the license fee for dogs and cats
caught in violation that are unlicensed, and the amount of the fines for the
first and subsequent violations of this chapter shall be as prescribed by the
City Council.
   (B)   The keeping of more than two dogs and cats in a single or multiple
dwelling unit, except by special permit of the City Council, shall be deemed a
public nuisance and unlawful, and shall be abated upon order of the City
Council within 90 days or the owner of the premises upon which the nuisance is
maintained shall be subject to the penalties imposed. It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual
barking shall be defined as barking for repeated intervals of at least five
minutes with less than one minute of interruption. The barking must also be
audible off of the owner’s or caretaker’s premises. Upon the complaint of two
or more neighbors, the Dog Warden or any County Deputy Sheriff shall, by mailed
notice, notify the person owning, harboring or keeping the habitually barking,
howling or baying dog to abate the same within 48 hours or the person shall be
subject to the penalties imposed.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 1-21-09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns,
harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors,
or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied
by and under the control and direction of a responsible person, so as to be
effectively restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or
on public land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or
Cats Prohibited.”
      (2)   No person may own a dangerous dog unless the dog is registered
according to the provisions of M.S. § 347.51 as it may be amended from time to
time. Dangerous dogs and cats and potentially dangerous dogs and cats shall be
kept in accordance with the provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.54, as they may
be amended from time to time.
      (3)   No person shall own, harbor or keep any dog over five months of age
unless the dog has been vaccinated within the past 12 months with a killed
rabies vaccine or within the past 24 months with a live rabies vaccine and a
certificate of vaccination has been obtained.
      (4)   No person shall own, harbor or keep any cat over six months of age
unless the cat has been vaccinated within the past 12 months for rabies and a
certificate of rabies has been obtained.
      (5)   No dog license shall be issued pursuant to division (A) above
unless the owner presents the certificate of vaccination at the time of the
license application.
   (B)   The restrictions imposed by division (A) above shall not prohibit the
appearance of a dog upon the streets or other public place when the dog is on a
leash or under restraint except a female dog in heat or season.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 1-21-09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.04 ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any dog or other animal
within the city.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.05 DOG POUND ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council, from time to time, shall designate the place or places as
a dog pound for keeping and maintaining any dogs and cats which may be seized
or impounded pursuant to this subchapter. The dog pounds may be within or
outside of the city limits. The City Council shall appoint an official Dog
Warden who shall have the authority to issue citations for violations of this
chapter insofar as the enforcement of this chapter is concerned. The Warden
shall display on his or her person his or her proper identification as
prescribed by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 1-21-09)
§ 92.06 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Dog Warden or the County Sheriff shall seize and impound any dogs and
cats found in the city running at large in violation of §
92.03 (A). To enforce this subchapter, the Dog Warden or Sheriff may enter upon
any private premises in pursuit of a dog running at large, except that the Dog
Warden or County Sheriff shall not enter upon the private property of the owner
of a dog which has been running at large without a search warrant except in the
case of an emergency. No person shall in any manner molest, hinder or interfere
with the official Dog Warden, any County Deputy, any police officer or any
animal warden employed directly or by contract with the city to capture animals
and convey them to the animal pound while the person is engaged in the
occupation.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 1-21-09)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.07 RABIES; VACCINATION AND QUARANTINE.
   (A)   (1)   Any dog suspected of rabies may be seized on the premises of the
owner or elsewhere and be confined in a veterinary hospital for a period of at
least ten days at the expense of the owner and at the discretion of the Dog
Warden; and any dog that has bitten any person may be seized on the premises of
the owner, or elsewhere, and be confined and impounded for a period of at least
ten days at the expense of the owner and at the discretion of the Dog Warden;
and the dog may be released at the end of the ten-day period if healthy and
free from symptoms of rabies and by the payment of costs by the owner. If the
owner of the dog applies in writing, he or she may, under circumstances where
proper facilities are available, obtain permission from the County Sheriff to
impound the dog at his or her home. It shall be the responsibility of any
person or persons bitten by a dog, wherein the bite requires the services of a
physician, to report an incident to the County Sheriff’s Department.
      (2)   Any dog which is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to
rabies and which dog cannot be taken up and impounded without serious risk to
the person or persons attempting to take up the dog, may be tranquilized and
impounded.
   (B)   (1)   The city, upon the impounding of any dog, shall, through the Dog
Warden, without delay, notify the owner personally or through the United States
Mail, if the owner is known; but if the owner be unknown, then the Dog Warden
shall post a written notice at the city offices describing the dog, stating
where it is impounded and that it may be redeemed. All animals conveyed to the
pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and sufficient food and water for
their comfort, at least five regular business days, unless the animal is a
dangerous animal as defined under M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.54, as they may be
amended from time to time, in which case it shall be kept for seven days, and
except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal under M.S. §§ 343.20 to
343.235, as they may be amended from time to time, in which case it shall be
kept for ten days, unless sooner reclaimed by their owners or keepers as
provided by this section. The owner shall pay the costs incurred in confining,
impounding and disposing of the animal. The Dog Warden shall issue a receipt in
triplicate pursuant to the requirements of this section, the duplicate to be
furnished the City Clerk/Treasurer with remittance of the impounding fee and
the triplicate to be retained by the Dog Warden.
      (2)   If, at the end of the period specified in (B)(1) above, the dog has
not been redeemed by the owner, the dog may be sold to any person for a
sufficient amount to pay for the cost of the impounding fee and the cost of
boarding, as above established. If the dog is not redeemed or sold as provided
herein, the Dog Warden may dispose of the dog in a proper and humane manner, or
pursuant to the terms of M.S. § 35.71, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.08 KENNELS.
   (A)   Persons operating or maintaining a kennel as defined by M.S. § 347.31,
Subdivision 2, as it may be amended from time to time, shall obtain a kennel
license from the state Board of Animal Health before being issued a kennel
permit by the city. No person shall operate a commercial kennel in this city
without first obtaining a permit. Applications for the permit shall be made to
the City Clerk/Treasurer and shall be accompanied by the permit fee. The Clerk/
Treasurer shall refer the application to the City Council which may grant or
deny the permit.
   (B)   Section
92.07 shall not apply to the premises of a duly licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.09 DISPOSITION OF MONIES.
   The Dog Warden shall account for and pay over to the city each month all
money received by him or her pursuant to this subchapter. The Dog Warden shall
also give an accurate written report for each month to the city showing all
fees collected, all sales made, all dogs or cats impounded, the duration of the
impoundment or otherwise disposed of under the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-83; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 1-21-09)
STANDARDS FOR THE KEEPING OF ANIMALS
§ 92.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL KENNEL. Any place where three or more domestic animals of one type,
over six months of age, are kept, sold, boarded, bred, or exhibited, except
hospitals, clinics, and other premises operated by a licensed veterinarian
exclusively for the care and treatment of animals.
   ANIMALS.
      (1)   Farm animals. Cattle, hogs, bees, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys,
horses, and other animals commonly accepted as farm animals in the state.
      (2)   House pets. Animals such as dogs, cats, birds (not including
pigeons, chickens, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl), gerbils, hamsters,
rabbits (including those normally sheltered outside of the principal
structure), and tropical fish, that can be contained within a principal
structure throughout the entire year, provided that the containment can be
accomplished without special modification to the structure that would require a
building permits, excluding wild or domesticated wild animals.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 11-9-04)
§ 92.21 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide standards for the keeping of
animals in association with various allowed uses in a manner compatible with
surrounding uses and consistent with the health, safety, and general welfare of
the community.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 11-9-04)
§ 92.22 KEEPING ANIMALS.
   The following animals may be kept in the city:
   (A)   The keeping of house pets is a permitted use in all zoning districts.
   (B)   The keeping of horses or domestic livestock is a permitted use in
Residential-Agriculture (RA) zoning districts only provided:
      (1)   The minimum lot size is ten acres.
      (2)   The number of horses or domestic livestock does not exceed one per
two acres unless a higher number is granted by the issuance of an interim use
permit.
   (C)   The keeping of farm animals is an allowed activity on all farm
property. Farm animals may not be confined in a pen, feedlot or building within
100 feet of any residential dwelling not owned or leased by the farmer.
   (D)   With the exception of the keeping of animals allowed by divisions (A)
through (C), no other animals are allowed except by interim use permit as
regulated under the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   Animals may only be kept for commercial purposes if authorized in the
zoning district where the animals are located.
   (F)   Animals may not be kept if they cause a nuisance or endanger the
health or safety of the community.
   (G)   Animal enclosures shall be subject to the accessory structure
requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 04-04, passed 11-9-04)
Cross-reference:
   Permitted uses, see
§ 153.041
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 92.35 ANIMAL WASTE.
   It is unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, or has custody of a
domestic animal to cause or permit such animal to defecate on any public
property or, without the consent of the owner, to defecate on any private
property unless such person immediately removes the excrement and properly
disposes of it. Feces of any domestic animal shall be properly disposed of by
the owner and shall be promptly removed from any public property or any private
property within the city limits.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-14-11) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   A fine of $25 will be charged to violators of §
92.35. Those in violation will be required to clean up the waste and pay the
fine. Those with more than one violation will be required to pay the
established hourly rate of city staff for waste cleanup with a minimum of one
hour charged.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-14-11)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Construction; permit required
   
93.02   Specifications and regulations
   
93.03   Inspection and supervision
Trees
   
93.15   Planting
   
93.16   Willful destruction prohibited
Excavations
   
93.30   Definitions
   
93.31   Nuisance
   
93.32   Order to abate; service
   
93.33   Waiver
   
93.34   Administration liability
Public Rights-of-Way
   
93.45   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
93.46   Definitions
   
93.47   Permit requirement
   
93.48   Permit applications
   
93.49   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
93.50   Permit fees
   
93.51   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
93.52   Supplementary applications
   
93.53   Denial of permit
   
93.54   Installation requirements
   
93.55   Inspection
   
93.56   Work done without a permit
   
93.57   Supplementary notification
   
93.58   Revocation of permits
   
93.59   Mapping data
   
93.60   Location of facilities
   
93.61   Damage to other facilities
   
93.62   Right-of-way vacation
   
93.63   Indemnification and liability
   
93.64   Abandoned facilities
   
93.65   Appeal
   
93.66   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Mailboxes
 
   
93.75   Placement and construction of mailboxes; disclaimer
Cross-reference:
   Assessable current services, see
§ 90.01
   Tree diseases, see
§ 90.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No sidewalk, curb or gutter shall be constructed on any street, avenue or
other public property in this municipality without first having obtained a
permit from the City Council. Application for the permit shall be made on forms
to be approved by the Council and shall sufficiently describe the contemplated
improvement, the contemplated date of beginning work and the length of time for
completion of the same. Provided, that no permit shall be required for any
improvement ordered or to be installed by the municipality.
(Ord. 11.01, passed - -)
§ 93.02 SPECIFICATIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All sidewalks, curbs and gutters constructed upon any street, avenue
or other public property in the city shall be constructed according to plans
and specifications on file with and approved by the Council.
   (B)   (1)   Before any construction is begun the municipality shall
establish grades and assist in determining locations for the same.
      (2)   If the grade or location has not been established before the filing
of an application for a permit to construct the improvement, the Council shall
order the Engineer, Street Commissioner or other proper officer or employee to
proceed to establish the same, unless the permit is denied for cause, and the
expense of the work shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. 11.01, passed - -)
§ 93.03 INSPECTION AND SUPERVISION.
   The Council shall require the inspection of all work done hereunder as
deemed necessary. Any work not done according to specifications shall be
corrected or removed at the expense of the permit holder and, if still being
done when discovered, shall be stopped by the Inspector.
(Ord. 11.01, passed - -)
TREES
§ 93.15 PLANTING.
   Any person or persons owning, controlling or occupying grounds within the
city, abutting upon any street in the city, may, with the city’s permission,
plant and maintain in and upon the street, in front of the grounds, shade or
ornamental trees. Trees are to be planted in straight rows on line parallel to,
and at a distance of seven feet from, the line bounding the grounds on the side
adjacent to the street.
(Ord. 11.02, passed - -)
§ 93.16 WILLFUL DESTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to willfully destroy or injure any shade or ornamental
tree growing or standing upon any street or upon any public or private grounds
in the city.
(Ord. 11.02, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
EXCAVATIONS
§ 93.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS EXCAVATIONS. Any excavation or basement on private property which
is not filled to grade or otherwise protected after a building is destroyed,
demolished or removed.
   PERSON. A natural person, co-partnership, corporation, firm or association
of persons.
(Ord. 13.04, passed - -)
§ 93.31 NUISANCE.
   The maintenance or existence of a dangerous excavation, or the maintenance
or existence of an excavation for building, whether or not completed, which is
left open for more than six months without proceeding with the erection of a
building thereon, in premises within the city, is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 13.04, passed - -)
§ 93.32 ORDER TO ABATE; SERVICE.
   (A)   Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place and
subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council order;
and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as set
forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer on the owner of record or occupant of the premises either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown or the owner of record or occupant refuses to accept
notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of the City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on
the premises.
   (B)   When any dangerous excavation exists in the city, or an excavation for
building purposes, whether or not completed, is left for more than six months
without proceeding with the erection of a building thereon, the Council may
order the excavation to be filled or protected or in the alternative, that
erection of a building begin forthwith. The order shall require compliance
thereto within 15 days.
   (C)   (1)   The order shall be served upon the owner of the premises. The
person ordered to abate the nuisance may have a hearing before the City
Council. A request for the hearing must be made in writing, and filed with the
City Clerk/Treasurer within the time stated in the order, or it will be
conclusively presumed that a nuisance exists. The hearing will be held before
the City Council at a time and place fixed by the Council.
      (2)   The finding of the Council shall be conclusive and, if a nuisance
is found to exist, it shall be ordered abated within a reasonable time, not to
exceed 15 days.
   (D)   If the owner of the premises fails to comply with the order within 15
days after the order is served upon him or her or within the time specified by
the Council after hearing, the Council may cause the excavation to be filled or
graded or protected as it deems public health and safety require.
(Ord. 13.04, passed - -)
§ 93.33 WAIVER.
   The abating of any nuisance by the city shall not be deemed or construed as
a waiver or approval of any violation of the provisions of this subchapter, nor
shall it prevent criminal prosecution of the violations. Criminal prosecution
of violations shall not permit or bar the right of the city to abate a
nuisance.
(Ord. 13.04, passed - -)
§ 93.34 ADMINISTRATION LIABILITY.
   No officer, agent or employee of the city shall render himself or herself
personally liable for any damage that may occur to persons or property as a
result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of his or her duties
under this subchapter. Any suit brought against any officer, agent or employee
of the city as a result of any act required or permitted in the discharge of
his or her duties under this subchapter shall be defended by the city until the
final determination of the proceedings therein.
(Ord. 13.04, passed - -)
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 93.45 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.46 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, Minn. Rules 7819.0100 subps. 1
through 23, and Minn. Rules 7560.0100 subps. 1 through 12 are hereby adopted by
reference and are incorporated into this chapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.47 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person (i) makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and (ii) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000 subp. 3, and
notwithstanding division (B) of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by city council resolution.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the director.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.48 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration; and
      (3)    A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permittee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self insurance acceptable to the director;
         (b)   Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the (i) use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and (ii) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the permittee, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter;
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
         (g)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate
required to be filed under M.S. § 300.06 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State; and
         (h)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from the commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.49 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this subchapter, the director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions.  The director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to
M.S. § 216D.01-.09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules
Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560, and shall require potholing or open
cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, as determined by
the city.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.50 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   The city shall establish an excavation permit fee in an amount
sufficient to recover the following costs (Note: Sample fee schedules included
in the ordinance codified herein):
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay such fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
director has revoked for a breach as stated in §
93.58 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rule 7819.100.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.51 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under §
93.59.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Permittee upon
notification from the director, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the director. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
director, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under §
93.59.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the director,
the director at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights
under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.52 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
(i) make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and (ii) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.53 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this subchapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.54 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, in so far as they are not
inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.55 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work-site available to city
personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection the director may order the immediate
cessation of any work, which poses a serious threat to the life, health,
safety, or well being of the public.
      (2)   The director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the director that
the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within
the required time, the director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
93.58.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.56 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.  
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities that it considers being
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this subchapter for the actions
it took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.57 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the director
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.58 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
93.62.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations might be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, which will cure the breach. Permittee’s failure to so
contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys’ fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.59 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information Required.  Each permittee shall provide mapping
information required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.4000 and
7819.4100.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150
subpart 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the city
evidence of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minn. Rules
governing service laterals install after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for 1) payments to contractors working
on a public improvement project including those under M.S. Ch. 429, and 2) city
approval of performance under development agreements, or other subdivision or
site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462. The city shall reasonably determine the
appropriate method of providing such information. Failure to provide prompt and
accurate information on the service laterals installed may result in the
revocation of the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the
offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.60 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100, 7819.5000 and
7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available
to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare or when
necessaiy to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the director shall
have the power to prohibit or director shall strive to the extent possible to
accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be
guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public’s needs
for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time
of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing
facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans for public improvements
and development projects which have been determined to be in the public
interest.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.61 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that facility owner
and must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner
shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-
way which it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another
caused during the city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.62 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   Reservation of right. If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains
facilities, the facility owner’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are
governed by Minn. Rules 7819.3200.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.63 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this subchapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rule 7819.1250.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.64 ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Removal of abandoned facilities.  Any person who has abandoned facilities in
any right-of-way shall remove them from that right-of-way if required in
conjunction with other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless
the director waives this requirement.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.65 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that: (1) has been denied registration; (2) has been
denied a permit; (3) has had permit revoked; (4) believes that the fees imposed
are invalid; or (5) disputes a determination of the city regarding Section 1.23
subd. 2 of this subchapter, may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
A decision by the City Council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee
imposition will be writing and supported by written findings establishing the
reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
§ 93.66 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 2010-01, passed 4-13-10)
MAILBOXES
§ 93.75 PLACEMENT AND CONSTRUCTION OF MAILBOXES; DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   Mailboxes and mailbox supports are the property of the mail route
patron. The city does not issue written permits for placement of mailboxes
within the road right-of-way, nor do our easements provide for mailbox
construction. All mailboxes placed within the road right-of-way are placed
there at the owner's risk.
   (B)   Types of mailboxes and supports are at the owner's discretion
including the option for swing arm mailbox supports. Mailboxes should be
constructed at a minimum of 45 inches to 48 inches to the ground at the front
of the mailbox and flush with the front of the curb. Prior to installation,
Gopher State One Call shall be notified to locate area utilities. Replacement
of mailboxes and new mailbox construction shall comply with the guidelines set
forth in this section. Existing mailboxes may vary from the regulations in this
section but upon replacement, shall comply with this section. Newspaper
containers shall comply upon replacement and shall be located on the side of
the mailbox. Replacement and newly constructed mailboxes are at the owner's
expense.
   (C)   Due to the accumulation of snow and snow removal operations, mailboxes
may be damaged by the plow equipment. The city is not responsible for the
replacement of mailboxes that are located in the road right-of-way.
(Ord. 11-01, passed 4-12-11)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE CODE; FIRE PREVENTION
Section
   
94.01   Adoption of Uniform Fire Code
   
94.02   Enforcement
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Establishment of limits
   
94.05   Amendments
   
94.06   Appeals
   
94.07   New materials, processes or occupancies
§ 94.01 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The Minnesota Uniform Fire Code, one copy of which has been marked as
the official copy and which is on file in the office of the City Clerk/
Treasurer, is hereby adopted as the fire code for the city for the purpose of
prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property
from fire or explosions.
   (B)   Every provision contained in this code, except as modified or amended
by this chapter, is hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully
set forth herein. The Fire Chief may issue permits where required under the
Minnesota Uniform Fire Code where applications are properly submitted as
required by the code for the particular permit being sought. The Chief shall
not issue a permit for a period to exceed one year.
   (C)   The Chief shall issue permits having a duration of less than one year
where the circumstances deem same to be reasonable and proper.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued under the code until the applicant has paid
the City Clerk/Treasurer $5 for the permit.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
§ 94.02 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Chief of the Independent Fire Department serving the city, or his
or her representative authorized by him or her, shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members of the
Fire Department as inspectors as shall, from time to time, be necessary.
      (2)   The Chief of the Fire Department may recommend the employment of
technical inspectors, who, when authorization is made, shall be selected
through an examination to determine their fitness for the position.
      (3)   The examination shall be open to members and non-members of the
Fire Department and appointments made after examination shall be for an
indefinite term with removal only for cause.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL. The City Attorney.
   JURISDICTION. The City of Waverly, Minnesota.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
§ 94.04 ESTABLISHMENT OF LIMITS.
   (A)   The limits referred to in § 15.201 of the Minnesota Uniform Fire Code
in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in outside above ground
tanks is prohibited, are hereby established as follows: R-A, R-1, B-1 and I-1,
as established in Ch. 153 of this code.
   (B)   The limits referred to in § 20.105(a) of the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gases is restricted are
hereby established as follows: R-A, R-1, B-1, B-2 and I-1, as established in
Ch. 153 of this code.
   (C)   The limits referred to in § 11.100(b) of the Minnesota Uniform Fire
Code, in which storage of explosives and blasting agents is prohibited, are
hereby established as follows: R-A, R-1, B-1, B-2 and I-1, as established in
Ch. 153 of this code.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
§ 94.05 AMENDMENTS.
   The Minnesota Uniform Fire Code is adopted in its entirety along with any
and all amendments thereto, including future amendments.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
§ 94.06 APPEALS.
   Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an application or refuse to grant a
permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions of the code do
not apply or that the true intent meaning of the code have been misconstrued or
wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the decision of the Chief to
the City Council within 30 days from the date of the decision of the appeal.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
§ 94.07 NEW MATERIALS, PROCESSES OR OCCUPANCIES.
   The Chairperson of the Planning Commission, the Building Inspector and the
Chief shall act as a committee to determine and specify, after giving affected
persons an opportunity to be heard, any new materials, processes or
occupancies, which shall require permits, in addition to those now enumerated
in the code. The Chief shall post the list in a conspicuous place in his or her
office and distribute copies thereof to interested persons.
(Ord. 17.01, passed - -)
CHAPTER 95: PUBLIC PARK REGULATIONS
Section
   
95.01   Legion Park
   
95.02   Community/neighborhood parks
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 LEGION PARK.
   (A)   Except for special events scheduled in advance with the City Clerk/
Treasurer, the Legion Park shall not be used or occupied between 10:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m. of the following day. Overnight parking and camping are prohibited.
   (B)   No person owning or harboring any animal shall permit or allow the
animal any access to the Legion Park. All animals are prohibited from entering
Legion Park regardless of whether or not the animals are leashed.
(Ord. 13.12, passed 6-11-85; Am. Ord. passed 5-12-87; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 8-
2-10) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 COMMUNITY/NEIGHBORHOOD PARKS.
   (A)   No person shall remove, break, destroy, injure, mutilate, deface or
damage in any way any structure, monument, statue, vase, foundation, fence,
railing, flag pole, vehicle, bench, tree, shrub, fern, plant, flower, fireplace
or other property in any city park.
   (B)   Noises or obnoxious behavior reasonably tending to annoy other persons
within or without any city park is prohibited.
   (C)   Dogs are permitted in community/neighborhood parks other than Legion
Park as long as they are leashed. It is required that dog owners clean up
debris left by their dogs in community/neighborhood parks.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 8-2-10) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in M.S. § 609.03, as
amended.
(Ord. 10-02, passed 8-2-10)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS; EXHIBITIONS
      
113.   OUTDOOR SALES LOTS
      
114.   ADULT USE
      
115.   GAMBLING REGULATIONS
      
116.   RENTAL DWELLING UNITS
      
117.   SHORT-TERM RENTALS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
110.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
110.04   License ineligibility
   
110.05   License suspension and revocation
   
110.06   License transferability
   
110.07   Registration
   
110.08   Prohibited activities
   
110.09   Exclusion by placard
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs or other non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For the purpose of this chapter, the term PEDDLER
shall have the same common meaning as the term HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.
   PROFESSIONAL FUNDRAISER. Any person, including a corporation or other
entity, who, for compensation, performs any solicitations or other services for
a religious, political, social, or other charitable organization.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be considered regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain in any one location for more than 14
consecutive days.
(Am. Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the terms PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT
MERCHANT shall not apply to:
   (A)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Nothing within this chapter
shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict non-commercial door-to-door
advocates. Persons engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not
be required to register under §
110.03;
   (B)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler;
   (C)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk;
   (D)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to
the customers on his or her established delivery route;
   (E)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large;
   (F)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales;
   (G)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea
market or community festival;
   (H)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer; or
   (I)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption
from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter, excuse any
person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision or
requirement provided by another city ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as may be required by
M.S. Ch. 329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business within this jurisdiction as a peddler
or a transient merchant without first obtaining a city license. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are required to register with the city pursuant to §
110.07.
   (C)   (1)   Application. An application for a city license to conduct
business as a peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular
business days before the applicant desires to begin conducting a business
operation within the city. Application for a license shall be made on a form
approved by the city and available from the office of the City Clerk. A
separate application shall be required for each individual involved in the
business. All applications shall be signed by the applicant.
      (2)   All applications shall include the following information:
         (a)   The applicant's full legal name;
         (b)   Any and all other names under which the applicant has or does
conduct business, or to which the applicant will officially answer;
         (c)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features, and the like);
         (d)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence;
         (e)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence;
         (f)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned,
managed, or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or
an agent;
         (g)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business, if any
exists;
         (h)   Any and all business-related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
         (i)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
         (j)   The duration of the application for which the applicant is
applying (i.e. weekly, monthly, etc.);
         (k)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct
business;
         (l)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up his or her business;
         (m)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been
convicted within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor or
misdemeanor for violating any state or federal statute or any local ordinance,
other than minor traffic offenses;
         (n)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
         (o)   Proof of any required county license;
         (p)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant;
         (q)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
         (r)   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Council;
         (s)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
         (t)   The license plate number, registration information, vehicle
identification number (VIN) and physical description for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business operation.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the city licensing fee schedule as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license
fee, the City Clerk will, within two regular business days, determine if the
application is complete. An application will be considered complete if all
required information is provided. If the City Clerk determines that the
application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the applicant of the
required, necessary information that is missing. If the application is
complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including background
checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the application.
Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete application the City
Clerk must issue the license unless grounds exist for denying the license
application under §
110.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the request for a city peddler or
transient merchant license. If the City Clerk denies the license application,
the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for
denial and the applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20
days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City
Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of
the request for a hearing. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. All other licenses granted to peddlers and transient
merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during the time period
indicated on the license.
   (G)   Professional fundraisers not exempt. A professional fundraiser working
on behalf of an otherwise exempt group or person shall not be exempt from the
licensing requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required for any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or any other type
of place-to-place movement for the primary purpose of exercising that person's
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, freedom
of the press, freedom of religion, and the like. This exemption will not apply
if the person's exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to what
would properly be considered a commercial activity.
(Am. Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a peddler or transient merchant
license:
   (A)   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process;
   (C)   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application;
   (D)   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (E)   A conviction within the past five years of the date of application for
any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or of any local
ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person's ability to conduct the
business for which the license is being sought in a professional, honest and
legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to, burglary,
theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and any form of
actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (F)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to an
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; or
   (G)   When an applicant has a bad business reputation. Evidence of a bad
business reputation shall include, but is not limited to, the existence of more
than three complaints against an applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the
Office of the Minnesota Attorney General or other state attorney general's
office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or agency, within
the preceding 12 months, or at least three complaints filed within the city
against an applicant within the preceding five years.
(Am. Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by an applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense to which the granting of the
license could have been denied under §
110.04;
      (4)   Engaging in any prohibited activity as provided under §
110.08;
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten days
following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the suspension
or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice, service shall be considered
complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a public hearing
is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be scheduled within
20 days from the date of the request for the public hearing. Within three
regular business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (D) of this section.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
110.03 shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the City Clerk shall issue to the registrant a certificate
of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of registration
shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in such a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 8:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification when requested;
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person;
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person;
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave; or
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long;
      (2)   At least four inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size; and
      (4)   Stating "No Peddlers, Solicitors or Transient Merchants,"
"Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited," or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any individual found in violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as set forth in M.S. § 609.03.
(Ord. 110, passed 5-10-16)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
   
111.06   Evacuation of liquor establishments
Licensing
   
111.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   Hours of operation
   
111.34   Minors on premises
   
111.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.36   Suspension and revocation
Municipal Liquor Stores
   
111.50   Application of this subchapter
   
111.51   Existing municipal stores continued
   
111.52   Location
   
111.53   Operation
   
111.54   Proof of financial responsibility
   
111.55   Issuance of other licenses
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter is adopted.
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt,” includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended  from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment,” “medium establishment” or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subdivision 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment,” “medium
establishment” or “large establishment.”
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of
§ 111.99(B).
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.06 EVACUATION OF LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   All glasses, bottles and other containers or drinking utensils of any
nature whatsoever containing even the slightest amounts of intoxicating liquor
or 3.2 malt liquor shall be removed from all counters and tables within 15
minutes after the time when such 3.2 malt liquors and intoxicating liquors may
last be sold, and no intoxicating liquor or 3.2 malt liquor shall in any way be
drunk or consumed upon the premises licensed after the expiration of said 15
minutes.
   (B)   The holder of the intoxicating liquor license or 3.2 malt liquor
license for each establishment shall be responsible for enforcing the
requirements of this section. The act or omission of any employee of the
licensee in violation of this section shall be deemed to be the act or omission
of the licensee.
   (C)   Employees or authorized agents permitted to work within the
establishment are exempted from evacuating the premises within a specified time
period as long as work is being performed. A list of authorized employees,
independent contractors, or agents shall be retained on the premises for
verification purposes.
   (D)   Any peace officer, health officer or properly designated officer in
the city shall be allowed to enter, inspect or search the premises of the
licensee at any reasonable time without warrant.
   (E)   Violation of the provisions of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 12-13-11) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of license which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger number of
licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum held
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subdivision 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in
§ 111.20.
   (A)   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off-sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under § 111.23 shall not exceed $100
or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S. § 340A.408, Subdivision 3,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and exclusive liquor
stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the Commissioner
of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408,
Subdivision 2b, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may in its
sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating
liquor off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city
under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subdivision 4b, as it may be amended
from time to time. The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail
on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at
any convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subdivision 4a, as it may be amended from
time to time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating
liquor to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event
being held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-
sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined
in
§ 111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at
least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§ 111.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subdivision 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subdivision 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in
§ 111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria
in M.S. § 340A.401, Subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The
fee for an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions
of
§ 111.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization.
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of
§ 111.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subdivision 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subdivision 5, as it may be amended from time
to time.
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500 which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Commissioner of Public
Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this comprehensive
background and financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be
$500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation
is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and not
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the application. No license
shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.33 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   In accordance with M.S. § 340A.504(7), the City Council has authorized on
sale intoxicating liquor establishments to sell liquor after 1:00 a.m. Liquor
licensees must apply for a special 2:00 a.m license from the Commissioner of
Public Safety and pay a fee based on a sliding fee scale. The license will be
valid for a 12-month period from the date of approval by the Alcohol and
Gambling Enforcement Division.
(Ord. 06-02, passed 11-14-06)
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of
§ 111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten days.
Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of
§ 111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or
in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see § 111.99
MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
§ 111.50 APPLICATION OF THIS SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter, consisting of
§§ 111.50 through
111.55, applies only to a city that has in existence on the effective date of
this chapter a municipal liquor store.
§ 111.51 EXISTING MUNICIPAL STORES CONTINUED.
   If the city has in existence on the effective date of this chapter a
municipal liquor store for the sale of intoxicating liquor, the store is
continued. Except as provided in
§ 111.55, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.52 LOCATION. 
   The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city
as the Council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments, or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The Council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine.
§ 111.53 OPERATION.
   (A)   Manager. The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge
of a Liquor Store Manager selected by the Council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the Council. The Manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The Manager shall furnish a surety bond to the city,
conditioned upon the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in a sum
as specified by the Council. The bond premium may be paid by the city or the
Manager, in the discretion of the Council. The Manager shall operate the
municipal liquor store under the Council’s direction and shall perform those
duties in connection with the store as may be established by the Council. The
Manager shall be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the store in
full compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor.
   (B)   Other employees. The Council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
Manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the Council. No person
under the age of 18 shall be employed in the store. The Council may require the
employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful discharge of
their duties in a sum as specified by the Council. The premium on the bond may
be paid by the city or the employees, as the Council determines.
   (C)   Municipal liquor store fund. All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the Manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the Council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
   (D)   Financial statement. The Council shall provide within 90 days
following the end of the calendar year for publication a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 471.6985, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Hours of operation. The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in
§ 111.33. No person, other than the Manager or a store employee, may remain in
the municipal liquor store longer than one-half hour after the time when the
sale of intoxicating liquor must cease.
Penalty, see § 111.99
§ 111.54 PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 111.55 ISSUANCE OF OTHER LICENSES.
   (A)   On-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. The Council may
issue in its sound discretion on-sale licenses to a club under M.S. § 340A.404,
Subdivision 1(4), as it may be amended from time to time. If the voters have
authorized their issuance at a special election called for that purpose, the
Council may issue on its sound discretion on-sale liquor licenses to hotels and
restaurants. The number of on-sale licenses issued under this section is
governed by M.S. § 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to time, as limited
by the provisions of this chapter. The issuance of these licenses is governed
by the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor. State law does
not authorize the issuance of off-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating
liquor by cities which operate a municipal liquor dispensary.
   (C)   On- and off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses. The Council may issue 3.2%
malt liquor licenses in its sound discretion as provided in this chapter.
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to any suspension unless the
licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period, $500.
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period, $2,000.
   (C)   The term “violation” as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS; EXHIBITIONS
Section
   
112.01   Public dances
§ 112.01 PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   Regulation of public dances.  All public dances held in this city
shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definitions.  The terms stated below shall have the following
meanings:
      PUBLIC DANCE.  Any dance where the general public may participate,
whether or not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
      PUBLIC DANCING PLACE.  Any room or space or other area, whether indoors
or outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of
participating in public dancing.
   (C)   Permit. No person shall conduct a public dance in this city unless a
permit has been obtained from the City Clerk/Treasurer prior to the holding of
the dance. The fees for a permit shall be as established in the Fee Schedule.
In addition to this fee, the applicant shall pay the cost to the city of
providing a police officer or officers to be present at the dance. The City
Council shall establish criteria for determining the number of police officers
required to be present at any dance. No permit shall be issued until the fee
and the cost of for providing the police officer or officers has been paid.
   (D)   Application. Any person desiring a permit to hold a public dance in
this city shall submit an application for a permit on the form provided by the
City Clerk/Treasurer submitted to the City Clerk/Treasurer at least ten days
before the date of the proposed dance. The application shall set forth the name
and address of the applicant who shall be the person responsible for conducting
the public dance and any business, committee or organization sponsoring the
dance, the place where the dance is to be held, the date of the dance and the
time of its beginning and end. Proof of all insurance required by this section
shall be submitted with the application and no permit shall be issued until
proof of insurance has been received. A request for any use of a city building
or other city property shall be included with the permit application and no
permit shall be issued until the fees for the use of the city building or other
city property have also been paid.
   (E)   Insurance. All insurance policies required for the event, including
any insurance required by law for the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall list
the city as a named insured and provide a provision to defend, indemnify and
hold harmless the city and any of its employees from any claims arising from
the event.
   (F)   Location. The applicant shall make sure that adequate parking is
available for the persons wishing to attend the dance and make sure that the
location is safe and accessible. This information shall also be provided to the
City Clerk/Treasurer before a permit shall be issued.
   (G)   Permit to be posted. When a permit is issued, the holder of the permit
shall post the permit in a prominent location on the premises on which the
dance is to be held during the time the dance is occurring. The applicant shall
be present at all times while the dance is occurring.
   (H)   Liquor license required. No person shall give, hold, conduct or permit
any public dance where liquor will be served, as defined in M.S. Ch. 340A, as
it may be amended from time to time, without obtaining a license from the city.
   (I)   Police officer presence.  No public dance shall occur without at least
one police officer, or more if more are required under the criteria established
by the City Council, present at the public dancing place during the duration of
the dance and after the dance, until all of the participants have left the
public dancing place.
   (J)   Hours. No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1 a.m. and 12
noon.
   (K)   Minors denied admission.  No person under the age of 21 shall be
allowed to be present by the permit holder or any police officer at a public
dance where alcohol is sold or consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
   (L)   Certain behavior prohibited. No person present at any public dance
shall engage in any disorderly conduct as defined by M.S. § 609.72 as it may be
amended from time to time, and any disorderly person shall be immediately
removed from the dance by the police officer present at the public dancing
place. Should a substantial number of persons at the public dance engage in
disorderly conduct, the police officer present shall terminate the dance and
remove all persons from the public dancing place.
   (M)   Lighting. In order to protect the safety of persons attending a public
dance, public dancing places shall be adequately illuminated and dancing
therein while lights are extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give
inadequate or imperfect illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall
be illuminated at all times during the public dance with light having intensity
of not less than one footcandle at floor level. Illumination of less than 0.5
footcandles in any area where dancing is occurring, permitted or encouraged is
prohibited.
   (N)   Noise.  All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of this
code regulating noise.
   (O)   Penalty. Any permit holder violating any of the provisions of this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and their public dance permit is
suspended immediately at the time of any arrest or citation for violating this
section.
(Ord. 8.04, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 113: OUTDOOR SALES LOTS
Section
   
113.01   General provisions
   
113.02   License required
   
113.03   Nuisance
   
113.04   Application
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Outdoor sales lots such as motor vehicle, marine, farm implement,
recreational vehicle, and similar sales are regulated by this section as
follows:
   (A)   Outside services and sales are associated with a building size of at
least 1,000 square feet of floor area.
   (B)   The entire sales lot and off street parking area is paved and a
perimeter curb is provided. Outdoor sales lots existing at the time of passage
of this chapter shall comply with the paving requirement by December 31, 2002.
   (C)   A minimum of 310 square feet of sales area per vehicle is provided.
   (D)   All signing is in accordance with city standards as specified in the
Waverly Zoning Ordinance.
   (E)   A strip of not less than five feet adjacent to the public right-of-way
shall be landscaped or screened. Landscape plans shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission and approved by the City Council.
   (F)   Such use is not located within 200 feet of residentially zoned
property. If existing businesses are located within this distance of a
residential zone, granting of variances will be considered for particular
cases.
   (G)   All outdoor lighting shall be directed so that it does not shine or
spill upon adjacent properties.
   (H)   The architectural appearance and functional plan of the building and
site may not be so dissimilar to the existing buildings or area as to cause
impairment in property values or constitute a blighting influence within a
reasonable distance of the lot.
   (I)   An on-site drainage system is provided subject to the approval of the
City Engineer.
   (J)   Maximum vehicle or equipment length must be restricted to 32 feet
unless larger units are specifically approved on a parking layout plan.
   (K)   The sales lot shall not include vehicles over 12,000 manufacturer’s
gross vehicle weight.
   (L)   Adequate customer parking is provided in off-street parking spaces in
accordance with the Waverly Zoning Ordinance.
   (M)   No stockpiling of parts shall be permitted.
   (N)   All vehicles and equipment must be in operational condition.
§ 113.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A license to operate the outdoor sales lot must be obtained from the
City Council. The license fee will be determined by the City Council and listed
on the Waverly Fee Schedule. Each license granted will be reviewed annually.
Application for outdoor sales lot licenses shall be made to the City Council.
   (B)   The following documents must be provided at the time of the license
application:
      (1)   Copy of Minnesota Dealer’s License.
      (2)   An affidavit of the business owner declaring the maximum number of
vehicles intended for display.
      (3)   Total lot area in square feet and proposed coverage area.
      (4)   A certificate of insurance for general liability.
      (5)   Parking layout plan.
      (6)   Lighting, drainage, and landscape plans.
§ 113.03 NUISANCE. 
   The conduct of the operation of outdoor sales lots and compliance with this
chapter shall be the responsibility of the property owner and tenant thereof.
§ 113.04 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all outdoor sales lots.
Existing sales lots will be allowed 120 days from the date of passage to comply
with the regulations as set forth in this chapter.
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punished as a misdemeanor under the laws
of the State of Minnesota.
CHAPTER 114: ADULT USE
Section
   
114.01   Findings
   
114.02   Conclusions of the City Council
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   Regulations
   
114.05   Sign restrictions
   
114.06   Illumination
   
114.07   Entrances
   
114.08   Hours of operation
   
114.09   License required
   
114.10   License application
   
114.11   License application execution
   
114.12   License application verification
   
114.13   License application consideration
   
114.14   License fees
   
114.15   Persons and locations ineligible for a license
   
114.16   License restrictions
   
114.17   Restrictions regarding license transfer
   
114.18   Renewal application
   
114.19   Sanctions for license violations
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City of Waverly, Minnesota (“city”) makes the following findings
regarding the impacts or “secondary effects” of sexually oriented businesses
and the sale, distribution, and display of sexually oriented materials
(collectively, “Sexually Oriented Business Activities”) on the areas in which
such Activities are located or take place. The findings are based upon the
experiences of other cities where such businesses have located.
   (B)   Sexually oriented business activities can cause or contribute
significantly to increases in criminal activity in the areas in which they are
located or take place, thereby taxing crime prevention, law enforcement, and
public health services.
   (C)   Nude dancing and other similar conduct provided by sexually oriented
business activities encourages prostitution, increases the frequency of sexual
assaults, attracts or encourages other related criminal activity, increases the
public health and safety risks associated with sexually oriented business
activities, and otherwise causes or contributes significantly to the adverse
impacts and secondary effects of sexually oriented business activities on the
areas in which such activities are located, or take place.
   (D)   Sexually oriented business activities can cause or contribute
significantly to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods, can impair the
character and quality of such neighborhoods and the housing located therein,
and can inhibit the proper maintenance and growth of such neighborhoods,
limiting or reducing the availability of quality, affordable housing for area
residents and reducing the value of property in such areas.
   (E)   Sexually oriented business activities can undermine the stability of
other established business and commercial uses in the areas in which sexually
oriented business activities are located or take place and cause or contribute
significantly to the deterioration of such other business and commercial uses,
thereby causing or contributing to a decline in such uses, an inhibition on
business and commercial growth, and a resulting adverse impact on local
government revenues and property values.
   (F)   Sexually oriented business activities can have a dehumanizing and
distracting influence on young people and students attending schools, can
diminish or destroy the enjoyment and family atmosphere of person using parks,
playgrounds, forest preserves, and other public recreational areas, can
interfere with or even destroy the spiritual experience of persons attending
church, synagogue, or other places of worship, and can interfere with or even
destroy the opportunity for solemn and respectful contemplation at cemeteries
and similar facilities.
   (G)   The presence of sexually oriented business activities is perceived by
the public generally and by neighboring business owners and residents as an
indication that the area in which such activities occur or take place is in
decline and deteriorating, a perception that can quickly lead to such decline
and deterioration, prompting businesses and residents to flee the affected area
to avoid the consequences of such decline and deterioration.
   (H)   The exterior appearance, including signage, of sexually oriented
business activities can have an adverse impact on young people and students,
can contribute to the decline in property values associated with sexually
oriented business activities, and can otherwise cause or contribute
significantly to the adverse impacts and secondary effects of sexually oriented
business activities on the areas in which such activities are located or take
place.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.02 CONCLUSIONS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   In direct furtherance of the substantial goals of public health, safety, and
welfare, the City Council adopts the following ordinance, recognizing that it
has a great interest in the present and future character of the city’s
residential and commercial neighborhoods.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE.  A business or commercial enterprise that provides for
barter, rental, or sale, items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audio tape, videotape, motion picture film, or other visual or aural
media, from which minors are excluded by reason of age or where a substantial
or significant portion of such items are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specific anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   ADULT GIFT BUSINESS or NOVELTY BUSINESS.  A business or commercial
enterprise that has as a principal activity the sale of devices, implements,
equipment, or novelties that are designed, marketed, used, or sold for the
primary purpose of stimulating human genitals or otherwise providing sexual
stimulation.
   ADULT HEALTH CLUB or ADULT SPORTS CLUB.  A business or commercial enterprise
that is named, signed, advertised, or promoted as a facility or club providing
health or sports-related goods, services, or equipment, from which minors are
excluded by reason of age or that is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   ADULT HOTEL or ADULT MOTEL. A business or commercial enterprise that
provides rooms, facilities, or lodging on a short-term basis and wherein
material or entertainment is presented, displayed, provided, or otherwise
characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or commercial enterprise
operating in, on, or from a building or portion thereof that has a legal
capacity of less than 50 persons, from which minors are excluded by reason of
age or that is used for presenting visual media or materials that are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MODELING STUDIO.  A business or commercial enterprise the primary or
dominant activity of which is to provide for its customers to observe, paint,
paint upon, sketch, draw, sculpt, photograph, videograph, or otherwise depict
or portray with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification to such customers, specified anatomical areas of one or more
models or subjects, or one or more models of subjects who are engaging in
specified sexual activities.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin-, slug-, electronically-, or mechanically-controlled or
operated still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-producing
devices are provided or maintained to show images to no more than one person
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities,
and the individual viewing areas are not screened, including but not limited to
doors and curtains, in any way to obstruct the viewing areas from monitoring.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A business or commercial enterprise operating
in, on, or from a building or portion thereof that has a legal capacity of 50
or more persons, from which minors are excluded by reason of age or that is
used for presenting visual media or materials that are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities.
   ADULT USE OTHER.  Any place to which the public is permitted, a business or
commercial enterprise that is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   BODY PAINTING STUDIO.  A business or commercial enterprise that provides the
service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on any specified anatomical area of any person.
   CABARET. A business or commercial enterprise that provides dancing or other
live entertainment, from which minors are excluded by reason of age or where
such entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction, or description of specified anatomical areas
or specified sexual activities.
   COMPANION ESTABLISHMENT.  A business or commercial enterprise that provides
the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion
between the owner, employee, or agent of the enterprise and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified
anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR.  A business or commercial enterprise that provides
the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion,
from which minors are excluded by reason of age or where such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT.  Any of the following:
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually oriented business to any other
existing sexually oriented business; or
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   MASSAGE PARLOR.  A massage parlor or health club which restricts minors by
reason of age, and which provides the services of massage, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on Specified Anatomical Areas or
Specified. Sexual Activities.
   PERSON. An individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation,
association, or other legal entity.
   SAUNA, STEAM ROOM, or BATHHOUSE FACILITY.  A business or commercial
enterprise that provides one or more steam or heat bathing rooms or sauna or
steam room facilities, where the services provided are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on Specified Anatomical Areas or Specified Sexual
Activities, or from which minors are excluded by reason of age.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An Adult bookstore, Adult Gift or Novelty
Business, Adult Health Club, Adult Sports Club, Adult Hotel or Motel, Adult
Mini-Motion Picture Theater, Adult Modeling Studio, Adult Motion Picture
Arcade, Adult Motion Picture Theater, Body Painting Studio, Cabaret, Companion
Establishment, Conversation/Rap Parlor, Escort Agency, Massage Parlor, Sauna,
Steam Room, Bathhouse, or Adult Use Other.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (2)   Masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (3)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (4)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other
physical restraining of any such persons;
      (5)   Fondling or other erotic touching, or simulated touching, of human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks, or female breast;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being;
      (7)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (1) through (6) of this definition.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses shall be prohibited in all of the city’s
zoning districts except I-1, as defined and regulated in the Waverly Zoning
Ordinance where such businesses shall be permitted, provided the conditions
specified in the Zoning Ordinance and in this chapter are met.
   (B)   In the I-1 District, in which sexually oriented businesses are
permitted uses, the following conditions shall be met prior to a sexually
oriented business being allowed.
      (1)   No sexually oriented business shall be located within 1,000 feet
of:
         (a)   A church, synagogue, mosque, temple or building which is used
primarily for religious worship and related religious activities;
         (b)   A public or private educational facility including but not
limited to child day care facilities, nursery schools, preschools,
kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools, intermediate schools,
junior high schools, middle schools, high schools, vocational schools,
secondary schools, continuation schools, special education schools, junior
colleges, and universities; school includes the school grounds, but does not
include facilities used primarily for another purpose and only incidentally as
a school;
      (2)   No sexually oriented business shall be located within 500 feet of:
         (a)   A boundary of a residential district as defined in the Zoning
Ordinance;
         (b)   A public park or recreational area which has been designated for
park or recreational activities including but not limited to a park,
playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir, athletic field, basketball
or tennis courts, pedestrian/bicycle paths, wilderness areas, or other similar
public land within the city;
         (c)   A public theater;
         (d)   A public library;
         (e)   A shopping center; or
         (f)   A cemetery.
      (3)   The operation, establishment, substantial enlargement, or transfer
of ownership or control of a sexually oriented business may not occur within
1,000 feet of another sexually oriented business. In addition, there shall not
be more than one sexually oriented business within a block front even if the
block is greater than 1,000 feet in length.
      (4)   The operation, establishment, or maintenance of more than one
sexually oriented business in the same building, structure, or portion thereof,
or the increase of floor area of any sexually oriented business in any
building, structure, or portion thereof containing another sexually oriented
business is prohibited.
      (5)   For the purpose of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) of this Section,
measurement shall be made in a straight line, without regard to the intervening
structures or objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure or
objects, from the nearest portion of the building or structure used as the part
of the premises where a sexually oriented business is conducted, to the nearest
property line of the premises of a use listed in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2).
Presence of a city, county or other political subdivision boundary shall be
irrelevant for purposes of calculating and applying the distance requirements
of this section. Such distance shall be measured across property lines,
regardless of ownership of the property.
      (6)   For purposes of division (B)(3) of this section, the distance
between any two sexually oriented businesses shall be measured in a straight
line, without regard to the intervening structures or objects or political
boundaries, from the closest exterior wall of the structure in which each
business is located.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.05 SIGN RESTRICTIONS.
   In order to protect children from exposure to lurid signs and materials and
in order to preserve the value of property surrounding sexually oriented
businesses, the following sign regulations shall apply to all sexually oriented
businesses in the city in addition to the provisions of
§ 153.204 of the Zoning Ordinance, provided however that in the event of any
inconsistencies, this section will govern.
   (A)   All signs shall be flat wall signs. No signs shall be freestanding,
located on the roof, electrical, or contain any flashing lights, moving
elements, or electronically or mechanically changing messages. No sign shall
contain any message or image which identifies specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas as defined herein.
   (B)   The amount of allowable sign area shall be one square foot of sign
area per foot of lot frontage on a street, not to exceed 16 square feet.
   (C)   No signs shall be placed in any window. A one square foot sign may be
placed on the door to state the hours of operation and admittance to adults
only.
   (D)   No merchandise, photos, or pictures of the products or entertainment
on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can
be viewed from the sidewalk or public right-of- way adjoining the building or
structure in which the sexually oriented business is located.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.06 ILLUMINATION.
   No portion of the exterior of a sexually oriented business shall utilize or
contain any flashing lights, search lights, or spotlights, or any other similar
lighting systems, or any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings,
or pictorial representations of any manner except to the extent specifically
allowed herein. The illumination of the premise’s exterior shall be adequate to
observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.07 ENTRANCES.
   All entrances to the business, with the exception of emergency fire exits,
which are not useable by patrons to enter the business, shall be visible from a
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.08 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Except for an adult motel or adult hotel, no sexually oriented business may
remain open except between the hours of 8 a.m. and 12 a.m. (Midnight) on
weekdays and Saturdays and 12 p.m. (Noon) and 6 p.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.09 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own or operate a sexually oriented business within the city
unless such person is currently licensed under this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.10 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a license under this chapter shall be made on a
form supplied by the Issuing Authority. All applicants must be qualified
according to the provisions of this chapter. The application may request and
the applicant shall provide such information (including fingerprints) as to
enable the city to determine whether the applicant meets the qualifications
established in this chapter.
   (B)   The application shall require the following information:
      (1)   All applicants.  For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant is a natural person, corporation,
partnership, or other form of organization.
         (b)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed, along with
a floor plan of the premises. The floor plan of the premises shall detail all
internal operations and activities, including a statement of the total floor
space occupied by the business. The floor plan need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked dimension
of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six inches.
         (c)   The name and street address of the business. If the business is
to be conducted under a designation, name or style other than the name of the
applicant, a certified copy of the certificate required by M.S. § 333.01, as it
may be amended from time to time, shall be submitted.
      (2)   Applicants who are natural persons. If the applicant is a natural
person:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, street and city address, and
phone number of the applicant.
         (b)   Where the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant’s name, and if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places where used.
         (c)   The street and city addresses at which the applicant has lived
during the preceding two years.
         (d)   The type, name, and location of every business or occupation in
which the applicant has been engaged during the preceding two years and the
name(s) and address(es) of the applicant’s employer(s) and partner(s), if any,
for the preceding two years.
         (e)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony,
crime, or violation of any ordinance other than a petty misdemeanor traffic
ordinance. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place
and offense for which the convictions were had.
      (3)   Applicants that are partnerships. If the applicant is a
partnership:
         (a)   The name(s) and address(es) of all general partners and all of
the information concerning each general partner that is required of applicants
in division (B)(2) of this section.
         (b)   The name(s) of the managing partner(s) and the interest of each
partner in the business.
         (c)   A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with
the application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a
trade name pursuant to M.S. § 333.01, as it may be amended from time to time, a
certified copy of such certificate shall be attached to the application.
      (4)   Corporate or other applicants. If the applicant is a corporation or
other organization:
         (a)   The name of the corporation or business form, and if
incorporated, the state of incorporation.
         (b)   A true copy of the Certificate of Incorporation, Articles of
Incorporation or Association Agreement and By-laws shall be attached to the
application. If the applicant is a foreign corporation, a Certificate of
Authority as required by M.S. § 303.06, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall be attached.
         (c)   The name of the manager(s), proprietor(s), or other agent(s) in
charge of the business and all of the information concerning each manager,
proprietor, or agent that is required of applicants in division (B)(2) of this
section.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.11 LICENSE APPLICATION EXECUTION.
   If the applicant is that of a natural person, the application shall be
signed and sworn to by that person; if of a corporation, by an officer thereof;
if of a partnership, by one of the general partners; if of an unincorporated
association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.12 LICENSE APPLICATION VERIFICATION.
   Applications of licenses under this chapter shall be submitted to the City
Council (hereinafter referred to as the “Issuing Authority”). Within 60
calendar days of receipt of a complete application and payment of all license
application fees, agents and/or employees of the Issuing Authority shall verify
any and all of the information requested of the applicant in the application,
including the ordering of criminal background checks, and conduct any necessary
investigation to assure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.13 LICENSE APPLICATION CONSIDERATION.
   No later than 10 calendar days after the completion of the license
application verification and investigation by the Issuing Authority or its
agents and employees, as prescribed in
§ 114.12, the Issuing Authority shall accept or deny the license application in
accordance with this chapter. If the application is denied, the Issuing
Authority shall notify the applicant of the determination in writing. The
notice shall be mailed by certified and regular mail to the applicant at the
address provided in the application form and it shall inform the applicant of
the applicant’s right within 20 calendar days of receipt of the notice by the
appellant to request an appeal of the determination for reconsideration by the
City Council or to immediately challenge the determination in a court of law.
If an appeal to the City Council is timely received, the hearing before the
City Council shall take place within 20 calendar days of the receipt of the
appeal. If an application is granted for a location where a building is under
construction or is not ready for occupancy, the license shall not be delivered
to the licensee until a certificate of occupancy has been issued for the
licensed premises by the City Building Inspector. During the application
consideration process prescribed herein, an applicant operating a business not
previously subject to the license provisions of this chapter may remain
operating pending the outcome of the application consideration by the Issuing
Authority.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.14 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Application fee.
      (1)   The license application fee shall be $1,000.
      (2)   The application fee shall be paid in full before the application
for a license is considered. All fees shall be paid to the Issuing Authority
for deposit in the general fund of the city. The application fee shall be non-
refundable.
      (3)   When the license is for premises where the building is not ready
for occupancy, the time fixed for computation of the license fee of the initial
license period shall be 90 days after approval of the license by the Issuing
Authority or upon the date an occupancy permit is issued for the building.
   (B)   Investigation fee. An applicant for any license under this subdivision
shall deposit with the Issuing Authority, at the time an original application
is submitted $1,000 to cover the costs involved in verifying the license
application and to cover the expense of any investigation needed to assure
compliance with this division. The investigation fee shall be non-refundable.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.15 PERSONS AND LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE.
   The Issuing Authority shall issue a license under this division to an
applicant unless one or more of the following conditions exist:
   (A)   The applicant is not 18 years of age or older on the date the
application is submitted to the Issuing Authority;
   (B)   The applicant failed to supply all of the information requested on the
license application;
   (C)   The applicant gave false, fraudulent, or untruthful information on the
license application;
   (D)   The applicant has had a sexually-oriented license revoked from the
city or any other jurisdiction within 12 months immediately preceding the date
the application was submitted;
   (E)   The applicant has had a conviction of a felony or gross misdemeanor or
misdemeanor relating to sex offenses, obscenity offenses, or adult uses in the
past five years;
   (F)   The sexually oriented business does not meet the zoning requirements
prescribed in this chapter;
   (G)   The premises to be licensed as a sexually oriented business is
currently licensed by the city as a tanning facility, tattoo establishment,
pawnshop, therapeutic massage enterprise, or an establishment licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages;
   (H)   The applicant has not paid the license and investigation fees required
in
§ 114.14.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.16 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Posting of license. A license issued under this chapter must be posted
in a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used.
   (B)   Effect of license. A license issued under this chapter is only
effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application.
   (C)   Maintenance of order. A licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall not allow
any illegal activity to take place on or near the licensed premises including
but not limited to prostitution, public indecency, indecent exposure,
disorderly conduct, or the sale or use of illegal drugs. Every act or omission
by an employee or independent contractor of the licensee constituting a
violation of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the licensee
if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the licensee or as a result of the licensee’s negligent failure to
supervise the employee’s or independent contractor’s conduct.
   (D)   Distance requirement for live adult entertainment. All performers,
dancers, and persons providing live entertainment distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas in the licensed
facility or in areas adjoining the licensed facility where such entertainment
can be seen by patrons of the licensed facility shall remain at all times a
distance of ten feet from all patron, customers, or spectators and shall dance
or provide such entertainment on a platform intended for that purposed, which
shall be raised at least two feet from the level of the floor on which patrons
or spectators are located.
   (E)   Interaction with patrons. No dancer, performer, or person providing
live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas in the licensed facility or in areas adjoining the licensed
facility where such entertainment can be seen by patrons of the licensed
facility shall fondle or caress any spectator or patron.
   (F)   Gratuity prohibition. No customer, spectator, or patron of a licensed
facility shall directly pay or give any gratuity to any dancer or performer and
no dancer or performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any patron or
spectator.
   (G)   Adult car wash requirements. Sexually oriented businesses that are
adult car washes shall meet all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.17 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING LICENSE TRANSFER.
   (A)   The license granted under this chapter is for the person and the
premises named on the approved license application. No transfer of a license
shall be permitted from place to place or from person to person without
complying with the requirements of an original application.
   (B)   When a sexually oriented business licensed under this chapter is sold
or transferred, the existing licensee shall immediately notify the Issuing
Authority of the sale or transfer. If the new owner or operator is to continue
operating the sexually oriented business, the new owner or operator must
immediately apply for a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.18 RENEWAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Annual licenses: Deadline of renewal applications. All licenses issued
under this subdivision shall be effective for only six months during the first
year and for one year thereafter commencing with the date of approval by the
Issuing Authority or City Council. An application for the renewal of an
existing license shall be submitted to the Issuing Authority at least 30
calendar days prior to the expiration date of the license. An applicant must
pay for the costs of a criminal background check with each renewal. This fee
must be paid in full before the renewal application will be considered.
   (B)   Verification, investigation and consideration of renewal application.
Within 20 calendar days of receipt by the Issuing Authority of a fully
completed renewal application, the Issuing Authority shall verify any and all
of the information requested of the applicant on the renewal application,
including the ordering of criminal background checks, and shall conduct any
necessary investigation to assure compliance with this chapter. No later than
ten calendar days after the completion of the renewal application verification
and investigation by the Issuing Authority, as prescribed herein, the Issuing
Authority shall issue a renewal license unless one or more of the following
conditions exist:
      (1)   The applicant is a minor at the time the application is submitted;
      (2)   The applicant failed to supply all of the information requested on
the renewal application;
      (3)   The applicant gave false, fraudulent, or untruthful information on
the renewal application;
      (4)   The sexually oriented business was found in the immediately
preceding license year to have violated the license restrictions prescribed in
this chapter;
      (5)   The sexually oriented business does not meet the zoning
requirements prescribed in this chapter;
      (6)   The premises to be licensed as a sexually oriented business is
currently licensed by the city as a tanning facility, tattoo establishment,
pawnshop, therapeutic massage enterprise, or an establishment licensed to sell
alcoholic beverages;
      (7)   The applicant has had a conviction of any crime listed in this
division; or
      (8)   The applicant has had a sexually oriented license revoked within
the 12 months immediately preceding the date the application was submitted;
   (C)   Notice of denial. If the Issuing Authority denies a renewal
application, the Issuing Authority shall notify the applicant in accordance
with this chapter and the notice, shall, in addition, state the grounds of the
denial.
   (D)   Appeal to City Council or Court of Law. After the denial of a renewal
application by the Issuing Authority, the applicant may appeal the
determination of the City Council for reconsideration or by immediately
challenging the determination in a court of law. If the city denies renewal of
a license under this division, the applicant shall not be issued a license
under this subdivision for one year from the date of the denial. If subsequent
to the denial, the City Council finds that the basis for the denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the denial became final.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.19 SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Suspension. The City Council may suspend a license issued pursuant to
this chapter for a period not to exceed 30 days for a violation of:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in a license
application or a renewal application;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the licensed occupation or business;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter or related state law;
      (4)   A licensee’s criminal conviction that is directly related to the
occupation or business licensed as defined by M.S. § 368.03, Subdivision 2, as
it may be amended from time to time, provided that the licensee cannot show
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties of the licensed occupation or business as defined by M.S. § 364.03,
Subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time; or
      (5)   Conducting the licensed business or occupation in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to health, safety, or general welfare of the community.
   (B)   Revocation. The City Council may revoke a license if the City Council
determines that:
      (1)   The licensee’s license was suspended in the preceding 14 months and
an additional cause of suspension as detailed in division (A) above is found by
the City Council to have occurred within the 14-month period;
      (2)   The licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (3)   The licensee or an employee or independent contractor of the
licensee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or sale of controlled
substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee or independent contractor has knowingly
allowed prostitution on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee violated any of the provisions of M.S. § 617.241 through
617.299, as it may be amended from time to time, or any statute in conformity
therewith, relating to the illegal distribution, possession or sale of obscene
materials;
      (6)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the sexually oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (7)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense described in
§§ 114.15 and
114.16 for which the time period has not elapsed;
      (8)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons has/have committed an offense prescribed in
§§ 114.15 and
114.16, in or on the licensed premises, for which a conviction has been
obtained, and the person or persons were employees or independent contractors
of the licensee at the time the offenses were committed;
      (9)   A licensee or an employee or independent contractor has knowingly
allowed specified sexual activities to occur in or on the licensed premises; or
      (10)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the city, county, state or
federal governments for hotel, occupancy, taxes, ad valorem taxes, sales taxes,
or other financial obligations.
   (C)   Appeal. The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Notice of hearing. A revocation or suspension shall be preceded by
written notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at
least ten days notice of the time and place of the public hearing and shall
state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The notice shall be
mailed to the licensee by regular and certified mail to the most recent address
listed on the application.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor under Minnesota law and
each day that a prohibited violation occurs or exists will constitute a
separate violation.
(Ord. 2002-08, passed 8-13-02)
CHAPTER 115: GAMBLING REGULATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
115.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
115.03   Purpose
   
115.04   Definitions
   
115.05   Applicability
   
115.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
115.07   Council approval
   
115.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
115.09   Local permits
   
115.10   Revocation and suspension of local permit
   
115.11   License and permit display
   
115.12   Notification of material changes to application
   
115.13   Contribution of net profits to fund administered by city
   
115.14   Designated trade area
   
115.15   Records and reporting
   
115.16   Hours of operation
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 349, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, provisions
relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful gambling are
hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out
in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future amendments of M.S.
Ch. 349 are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in
existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Waverly.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Waverly.
   LOCAL PERMIT. A permit issued by the city.
   TRADE AREA. The city limits of Waverly, Minnesota and Marysville and
Woodland Townships, Minnesota.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except:
   (A)   Bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization, if: the prizes for a single bingo
game do not exceed $10; total prizes awarded at a single bingo occasion do not
exceed $200; no more than two bingo occasions are held by the organization or
at the facility each week; only members of the organization or residents of the
nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo game; no
compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo; and a manager is
appointed to supervise the bingo.
   (B)   Raffles, if the value of all prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year does not exceed $750.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city, provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as they may be
amended from time to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive, as they
may be amended from time to time; and this chapter.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   Lawful gambling authorized by M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive, as
they may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted unless approved
by the Council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit or bingo hall
license or renewal of a premises permit or bingo hall license from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk/Treasurer an executed, complete duplicate
application together with all exhibits and documents accompanying the
application as filed with the Board. The application and accompanying documents
shall be filed not later than three days after they have been filed with the
Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit or bingo hall license, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall transmit the
application to the Wright County Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (C)   The Wright County Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make a
review and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no
event later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations or bingo halls applying for a state-issued premises
permit or bingo hall license shall pay the city a $100 investigation fee. This
fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation
is commenced.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (F)   The Council shall receive the County Sheriff’s report and consider the
application within 45 days of the date the application was submitted to the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (G)   The Council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within 60 days of receipt of the application.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons; otherwise the Council shall
pass a resolution approving the application:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last three
years;
      (3)   More than one licensed organization would be permitted to conduct
lawful gambling activities at one premises;
      (4)   Failure of the applicant to pay the investigation fee provided by
division (D) above within the prescribed time limit; or
      (5)   Operation of the gambling at the site would be detrimental to
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.09 LOCAL PERMITS.
   (A)   No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded or exempted
from state licensure requirements by M.S. § 349.166, as it may be amended from
time to time, without a valid local permit. This section shall not apply to
lawful gambling exempted from local regulation by §
115.05.
   (B)   Applications for issuance or renewal of a local permit shall be on a
form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the organizations requesting the permit;
      (2)   Name and address of the officers and person accounting for
receipts, expenses, and profits for the event;
      (3)   Dates and gambling occasion for which permit is requested;
      (4)   Address of premises where event will occur;
      (5)   Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event including rental to be charged to organization; and
      (6)   Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
   (C)   The fee for a local permit shall be $100. The fee shall be submitted
with the application for a local permit. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
   (D)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a local
permit, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall transmit the notification to the County
Sheriff for review and recommendation.
   (E)   The County Sheriff shall investigate the matter and make review and
recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event later
than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (F)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation.
   (G)   The Council shall receive the County Sheriff’s report and consider the
application within 45 days of the date the application was submitted to the
City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (H)   The Council shall disapprove an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons; otherwise the council shall
approve the application:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three years;
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment including, but not limited to,
laws relating to the operation of the establishment, laws relating to alcoholic
beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression of vice, and protection
of public safety within the last three years;
      (3)   The organization has not been in existence in the city for at least
three consecutive years prior to the date of the application;
      (4)    The organization does not have at least 30 active members;
      (5)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents;
      (6)   Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued;
      (7)   More than one licensed, qualified organization will be conducting
exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises;
      (8)   Failure of the applicant to pay the permit fee provided by division
(C) above within the prescribed time limit; or
      (9)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
   (I)   Local permits shall be valid for one year after the date of issuance
unless suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.10 REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION OF LOCAL PERMIT.
   (A)   A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a violation
by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule or city ordinance
relating to gambling.
   (B)   A license shall not be revoked or suspended until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served and shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the permitted person
may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the permit will not be
suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a
hearing, the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
Council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council may suspend
or revoke the permit.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.11 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.12 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit or a local permit
shall notify the city in writing whenever any material change in the
information submitted in the application occurs within ten days of the change.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.13 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO FUND ADMINISTERED BY CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the city
pursuant to M.S. § 349.16, as it may be amended from time to time, shall
contribute 10% of its net profits derived from lawful gambling in the city to a
fund administered and regulated by the city without cost to the fund. The city
shall disburse the funds for lawful purposes as defined by M.S. § 349.12,
Subdivision 25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
   (C)   The city’s use of such funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city’s annual budget or when the budget is amended.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.14 DESIGNATED TRADE AREA.
   (A)    Each organization licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall
expend 80% of its lawful purpose expenditures on lawful purposes conducted
within the city’s trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of gross
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city’s
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.15 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Clerk/Treasurer one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with
the Board, pursuant to M.S. Ch.349, as it may be amended from time to time, and
rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time. The
records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required to be
filed with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file a report with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by
§ 115.14. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city and shall
be submitted annually and in advance of application for renewal.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.16 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions that follow shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days or both, plus in either case the
costs of prosecution:
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from
time to time;
   (C)   M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.21, as they may be amended from time to
time or any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 03-04, passed 9-9-03)
CHAPTER 116: RENTAL DWELLING UNITS
Section
   
116.01   Statutory authorization and purpose
   
116.02   General provisions
   
116.03   Definitions
   
116.04   Responsibilities
   
116.05   Minimum standards
   
116.06   Requirements
   
116.07   Inspection authority
   
116.08   Compliance order
   
116.09   Emergency orders
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. §
145A.05, Subdivision d. 1 and Subdivision d. 7 and M.S. § 375.51 or successor
statutes.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to establish minimum standards
for rental dwelling units in the city. The general objectives include the
following:
      (1)   Protect the character and stability of residential areas;
      (2)   Correct and prevent housing conditions that adversely affect, or
are likely to adversely affect, the life, safety, general welfare and health of
the renting public, including the physical, mental and social well-being of
persons occupying a rental dwelling unit;
      (3)   Provide minimum standards for cooking, heating and sanitary
equipment necessary to the health and safety of occupants of rental dwelling
units;
      (4)   Provide minimum standards for light necessary to health and safety;
      (5)   Prevent the overcrowding of dwellings by providing minimum space
standards per occupant for each rental dwelling unit;
      (6)   Provide minimum standards for the maintenance of existing rental
residential buildings and to prevent slums and blight;
      (7)   Preserve the value of land and buildings; and
      (8)   With respect to rental disputes, except as otherwise provided, it
is not the intent of the City Council to intrude upon the fair and accepted
contractual relationship between tenant and owner. The City Council does not
intend to intervene as an advocate for either party, to act as an arbiter or to
be receptive to complaints from tenant or owner which are not specifically and
clearly relevant to the provisions of this chapter. In the absence of such
relevancy with regard to rental disputes, it is intended that the contracting
parties exercise such legal sanctions as are available to them without the City
Council’s intervention. By enacting this chapter, the City Council does not
intend to interfere or permit interference with legal rights to personal
privacy.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08)
§ 116.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. This chapter shall be applicable to all rental dwelling
units within the legal boundaries of the city. Every building and its premises
used in whole or in part as a rental dwelling unit, for a single family or
person, and every building used in whole or in part as a rental dwelling unit
having two or more persons or families living in separate units shall conform
to the requirements of this chapter, irrespective of when such building may
have been constructed, altered or repaired. This chapter establishes minimum
standards for rental dwelling units and related premises.
   (B)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter shall be severable. In
the event any ordinance, paragraph, sentence, clause, phrase or portion of this
chapter is declared invalid for any reason, the remainder of this chapter shall
not be affected thereby.
   (C)   Interpretation and application. The provisions of this chapter shall
be considered minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in favor of
the city and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any other powers
granted by the Minnesota Statutes.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08)
§ 116.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A subordinate structure on the same lot as the
principal dwelling or dwellings, and which is not used nor authorized to be
used for living or sleeping by human occupants.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The City of Waverly City Council.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof intended for the shelter, housing or
enclosure of any person, animal, goods or materials of any kind or nature.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR. Any duly authorized representative charged with the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City of Waverly City Council.
   DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed or used predominantly for
residential occupancy of a continued nature, including single-family dwellings,
two-family dwellings and multiple family dwellings, but not including hotels
and motels.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.
   EFFICIENCY LIVING UNIT. A room having cooking facilities and used for
combined living, dining and sleeping purposes.
   GARBAGE. The animal or vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HABITABLE SPACE. Space in a structure for living, sleeping, eating or
cooking, bathrooms, toilet rooms, furnace rooms, unfurnished basements (such
as, those without required ventilation, electric outlets and exit facilities),
pantries, closets, corridors, stairways, storage spaces, workshops, hobby and
recreation areas in parts of the structure below ground level or in attics and
any similar areas are not considered habitable space.
   HEATED WATER. Water heated to a temperature between 120º and 130º F.
measured at the faucet outlet.
   KITCHEN. A space which contains a sink with counter working space, adequate
space for installing cooking and refrigeration equipment and adequate space for
the storage of cooking utensils.
   MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling, or portion thereof, containing four or
more dwelling units.
   OCCUPANT. Any person living or sleeping in a building or having possession
of a space within a building.
   OPERATOR. Any person who has charge, care or control of a structure or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, operator, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
state, county or municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of the person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court. Any person representing
the actual owner shall be bound to comply with the provisions of this chapter
to the same extent as the owner.
   PERMISSIBLE OCCUPANCY. The maximum number of persons permitted to reside in
a dwelling unit or rooming unit.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association or corporation; the
term may extend and be applied to bodies corporate and politic and to
partnerships and other unincorporated associations.
   PREMISES. A lot or parcel of land, including any structures thereon.
   PUBLIC HALL. A hall, corridor or passageway for providing egress from a
dwelling unit to a public way and not within the exclusive control of one
family.
   RENT. Consideration paid for the use of premises, including, but not
necessarily limited to, money, services and property. As a verb, the term RENT
means to get or give the use of premises in return for such consideration or
any combination thereof. The term RENT does not include arrangements whereby a
relative, as defined in M.S. § 273.124, Subdivision 1(c), occupies a dwelling
for no consideration or for consideration that includes no more than
maintenance of the dwelling or premises, and which arrangement is detailed and
sworn to in affidavits filed by each adult occupant of the dwelling and each
person who is the owner of the dwelling.
   RENTAL DWELLING or DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or dwelling unit let for rent
or lease.
   RODENT HARBORAGE. Any place where rodents can live, nest or seek shelter.
   ROOMING UNIT. Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
   RUBBISH. Combustible and noncombustible waste materials, except garbage; the
term shall include the residue from the burning of wood, coal, and other
combustible; materials, paper, rags, cartons, boxes, wood, excelsior, rubber,
leather, tree branches, yard trimmings, tin cans, metals, mineral matter,
glass, crockery and other similar materials.
   STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
   TENANT. A person, whether or not the legal owner of record, occupying a
building, or portion thereof, as a unit.
   TOILET ROOM. A room containing a water closet or urinal but not a bathtub or
shower.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 8-8-12)
§ 116.04 RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   License required.
      (1)   No owner or other person shall occupy or rent to another person any
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit unless it and the premises are clean,
sanitary, fit for human occupancy and comply with all applicable legal
requirements of the state, county and city, including the following
requirements.
      (2)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate a rental dwelling unit
without first having obtained a license to do so from the city as provided for
in this section. Each license shall be issued bi-annually and shall expire on
December 31 of the license term. License renewals for the following years shall
be filed on or before November 1 prior to the license expiration date. The
license renewal will take effect on January 1 of the new license term. The city
will notify licensees by letter to renew the current licenses in October of the
expiring year.
         (a)   Application. Applications for rental licenses shall be made in
writing to the city by the owner of the rental dwelling unit(s) or his/her
designated agent. The applicant shall supply:
            1.   The name, address and telephone number of the dwelling owner,
the owning partners if a partnership and/or the corporate officers if a
corporation.
            2.   The name, address and telephone number of the designated
residential agent, if any.
            3.   The name, address and telephone number of the management
representative.
            4.   The name, address and telephone number of the vendee, if the
dwelling is being sold through a contract for deed.
            5.   The legal address of the dwelling.
            6.   The type of the dwelling.
            7.   The type and number of dwelling units within the dwelling.
            8.   Number of occupants.
            9.   A description of the procedure through which tenant inquiries
and complaints are to be processed.
            10.   An acknowledgment that the owner or designated agent has
received a copy of this section.
            11.   Certification of taxes and utilities paid: Prior to approving
an application for a rental housing license, the property owner shall provide
certification to the city that there are no delinquent property taxes, special
assessments, interest, or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to
which the rental housing license application relates.
         (b)   Fees. License fees for renewal of licenses under this section
shall be due with submission of the renewal application prior to November 1 of
the expiring year for an effective date of January 1. The rental license fee
will be established per the Waverly Fee Schedule. Fees for new licenses for
less than two years will be prorated monthly.
         (c)   Inspection required. No license shall be issued or renewed under
this section unless the rental dwelling and its premises conform to the
ordinances of the city and the laws of the state. The city may require an
inspection of such dwelling and premises to make that determination. Failure to
schedule or allow such inspection shall be deemed a violation of this section
and penalties as such will be assessed by the city.
         (d)   Posting of license. Every owner of a single family rental
dwelling shall provide a copy of the license to each tenant. Each rental
dwelling containing two or more units shall cause the current license to be
conspicuously posted in the main entryway or other conspicuous location.
   (B)   Shared or public areas. Every owner of a dwelling containing two or
more dwelling units shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition of the
shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises.
   (C)   Occupied areas. Every occupant of a dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming
unit shall maintain in a clean and sanitary condition that part or those parts
of the unit and premises that the occupant occupies and controls.
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish storage and disposal. Every occupant of a rental
dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit shall store and dispose of all garbage
and rubbish in a clean, sanitary and safe manner as provided by law. Every
owner of a rental dwelling, dwelling unit or rooming unit shall supply
facilities for the sanitary and safe storage and/or disposal of garbage and
rubbish. That cost may be part of the occupant's expense as provided by
agreement of the parties.
   (E)   Storm and screen doors and windows. The owner of a rental dwelling
unit shall be responsible for maintaining in good repair all screens, storm
doors and storm windows when required under the provisions of this chapter,
except where there is written agreement otherwise between the owner and
occupant and except for the intentional or neglectful action of the occupant.
   (F)   Pest extermination. Every occupant of a rental dwelling unit shall be
responsible for the extermination of vermin infestations and/or rodents on the
premises. Every occupant of a dwelling unit in a rental dwelling containing
more than one dwelling unit shall be responsible for such extermination
whenever the occupant’s dwelling unit is the only one infested. Whenever
infestation is caused by the failure of the owner to maintain a rental dwelling
in a reasonable rodent-proof or reasonable vermin-proof condition,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation
exists in two or more of the dwelling units in any rental dwelling, or in the
shared or public parts of any dwelling containing two or more dwelling units,
extermination shall be the responsibility of the owner.
   (G)   Rodent harborages and food. No owner or occupant of a rental dwelling
unit shall accumulate or be allowed to accumulate boxes, lumber, wood, scrap
metal or any other similar materials in such a manner that may provide a rodent
harborage in or about any rental dwelling unit. Stored materials shall be
stacked neatly in piles at least ten feet away from any dwelling unit and one
foot above the ground. No owner or occupant of a rental dwelling unit shall
store, place or be allowed to accumulate any materials that may serve as food
for rodents in a site accessible to rodents.
   (H)   Fixtures and facilities. Every occupant of a rental dwelling unit
shall keep all supplied fixtures and facilities in a safe, clean and sanitary
condition and shall be responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the
proper use and operation thereof.
   (I)   Snow and ice removal. The owner of a multiple family dwelling shall be
responsible for the removal of snow and ice from the parking lots, driveways,
steps and walkways on the premises within a reasonable amount of time to
provide access for fire and medical personnel.
   (J)   Minimum exterior lighting. The owner of a multiple family rental
dwelling shall be responsible for providing and maintaining effective
illumination in all exterior parking lots and walkways.
   (K)   Driving and parking areas. The owner of a multiple family rental
dwelling unit shall be responsible for providing and maintaining in good
condition parking areas and driveways for tenants.
   (L)   Yards. The owner of a multiple family rental dwelling shall be
responsible for providing and maintaining premises in a safe and sanitary
manner.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 8-8-12) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.05 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   No person shall rent to another for occupancy any dwelling unit, for the
purpose of living, sleeping, cooking or eating which does not comply with the
following requirements:
   (A)   Kitchen facilities. Every rental dwelling unit shall have a room or
portion of a room in which food may be prepared and/or cooked, which shall have
adequate circulation and which shall be equipped with the following:
      (1)   A kitchen sink in working condition and properly connected to an
approved water supply system and which provides at all times an adequate amount
of heated and unheated running water under pressure, and which is connected to
an approved sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Cabinets and/or shelves for the storage of eating, drinking and
cooking equipment and utensils and for food that does not require
refrigeration; and a counter or table for food preparation. Cabinets and/or
shelves and counter or table shall be adequate for the permissible occupancy of
the rental dwelling unit and shall be of sound construction furnished with
surfaces that are easily cleanable and that will not impart any toxic or
deleterious effect to food.
      (3)   A stove or similar device for cooking food and a refrigerator or
similar device for the safe storage of food, which are properly installed with
all necessary connections for safe, sanitary and efficient operation. Provided
that such stove, refrigerator or similar device need not be installed when a
rental dwelling unit is not occupied and when the occupant is expected to
provide same on occupancy, in which case sufficient space and adequate
connections for the installation and operation of the stove, refrigerator or
similar device must be provided.
   (B)   Toilet facilities. There shall be a non-habitable room that is
equipped with a flush water closet in working condition. In a rental dwelling
unit, the room shall have an entrance door that affords privacy. A flush water
closet shall be equipped with easily cleanable surfaces, shall be connected to
an approved water system that at all times provides an adequate amount of
running water under pressure to cause the water closet to be operated properly
and shall be connected to an approved sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Lavatory sink. Within every rental dwelling unit there shall be a
lavatory sink. The lavatory sink may be in the same room as the flush water
closet. If located in another room, the lavatory sink shall be located in close
proximity to the door leading directly into the room in which the water closet
is located. The lavatory sink shall be in working condition, shall be properly
connected to an approved water supply system, shall provide at all times an
adequate amount of heated and unheated running water under pressure and shall
be connected to an approved sanitary sewer system.
   (D)   Bathtub or shower. Within every rental dwelling unit there shall be a
non-habitable room that is equipped with a bathtub or shower in working
condition. In a rental dwelling unit, the room shall have an entrance door that
affords privacy. The bathtub or shower may be in the same room as the flush
water closet or in another room, shall be properly connected to an approved
water supply system, shall provide proper ventilation (such as, fan or operable
window), shall provide at all times an adequate amount of heated and unheated
water under pressure, and shall be connected to an approved sanitary sewer
system.
   (E)   Stairways, porches and balconies. Every stairway, porch, or balcony
shall be kept in safe condition and of sound repair, free of deterioration. No
flight of stairs shall have rotting, loose or deteriorating supports. Stairways
shall be capable of supporting a live load of 100 pounds per square foot of
horizontal projection. Decks shall be able to support 40 pounds per square foot
live load and ten pounds per square foot dead load.
   (F)   Handrails and guardrails.
      (1)   Every exterior and interior flight of stairs having more than four
risers shall have a handrail on one side of the stair and every open portion of
stair, landing, balcony, porch, deck, ramp or other walking surface which is
more than 30 inches (762 mm) above the floor or grade below shall have guards.
Handrails shall not be less than 30 inches (762 mm) high or more than 42 inches
(1067 mm) high measured vertically above the nosing of the tread or above the
finished floor of the landing or walking surfaces. Guards shall not be less
than 30 inches (762 mm) high above the floor of the landing, balcony, porch,
deck, or ramp or other walking surface.
      (2)   Exception: Guards shall not be required where exempted by the
adopted building code.
   (G)   Access to rental dwelling units. Access to or egress from each rental
dwelling unit shall be provided without passing through any other dwelling
unit.
   (H)   Door locks. No owner shall occupy nor let to another for occupancy any
dwelling unit unless all exterior doors of the rental dwelling unit are
equipped with safe, functioning locking devices. Multiple family dwellings
shall also be furnished with door locks as follows: every door that is designed
to provide ingress or egress for a dwelling unit within a multiple family
rental dwelling shall be equipped with an approved locking device, provided,
however, that door shall be operable from the inside without the use of a key
or any special knowledge or effort.
   (I)   Electrical equipment. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances
shall be installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all
applicable laws, including the Minnesota State Electrical Code. All electrical
equipment shall be of an approved type. Every habitable room shall contain at
least two supplied electric convenience outlets or one such convenience outlet
and one supplied electric fixture. Every toilet room, bathroom, furnace room,
laundry room and public hallway shall contain at least one supplied electric
light fixture.
   (J)   Windows. Every habitable space shall have at least one window facing
directly outdoors that can be opened easily.
   (K)   Emergency escape openings. Required emergency escape openings shall be
maintained in accordance with the code in effect at the time of construction
and the following. Required emergency escape and rescue openings shall be
operational from the inside of the room without the use of keys or tools. Bars,
grills, grates or similar devices are permitted to be placed over emergency
escape and rescue openings provided the minimum net clear opening size complies
with the code that was in effect at the time of construction and such devices
shall be releasable or removable from the inside without the use of a key, tool
or force greater than that which is required for normal operation of the escape
and rescue opening.
   (L)   Heating. No person shall rent to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purposes of living therein, which does not have heating
facilities which are properly installed, which are not maintained in safe
working condition and which are not capable of safely and adequately heating
all habitable rooms, bathrooms and toilet rooms in every dwelling unit located
therein. Gas or electric appliances designed primarily for cooking or water
heating purposes shall not be considered as heating facilities within the
meaning of this chapter. Portable heating equipment employing flame and the use
of liquid fuel do not meet the requirements of this chapter and are prohibited.
No owner or occupant shall install, operate or use a space heater employing a
flame that is not vented outside the structure in an approved manner.
   (M)   Maximum occupancy.
      (1)   Every dwelling unit shall contain at least 200 square feet of floor
space for the first occupant and at least 100 additional square feet of floor
space for every additional occupant.
      (2)   The floor space shall be calculated on the basis of total habitable
room area, inside measurements. No floor space shall be included in the
determination of habitable room area over which the ceiling is less than seven
feet above the floor.
   (N)   Water supply. Each rental dwelling unit shall be supplied with
drinking water which meets all local, state and federal drinking water
standards.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 8-8-12) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.06 REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall rent to another for occupancy a dwelling unit, for the
purpose of living therein, which does not comply with the following
requirements:
   (A)   Foundations, exterior walls and roofs. The foundation, exterior walls
and exterior roof shall be substantially water tight, protected against mold,
vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and repair. The
foundation element shall adequately support the building at all points. Every
exterior wall shall be free of visible mold, deterioration, holes, breaks,
loose or rotting timbers and any other condition which might admit rain or
dampness to the interior portion of the walls or to the interior spaces of the
dwelling. The roof shall be tight and have no defects that admit rain. Roof
drainage shall be adequate to prevent rainwater from causing dampness in the
walls. All exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods, shall be
protected from the elements and decay by paint or other protective covering or
treatment.
   (B)   Windows, doors and screens. Every window, exterior door and hatchway
shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in sound condition and repair.
Every window, other than a fixed window or storm window, shall be capable of
being easily opened. Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and
maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction as to completely
exclude rain, wind, vermin and rodents from entering the building.
   (C)   Floors, interior walls and ceilings. Every floor, interior wall and
ceiling shall be adequately protected against the passage and harborage of
vermin and rodents, free of visible mold growth, and shall be kept in sound
condition and good repair. Every floor shall be free of loose, warped,
protruding or rotted flooring materials. Every interior wall and ceiling shall
be free of holes, large cracks, loose plaster, visible mold growth or flaking
lead paint and shall be maintained in a tight weatherproof condition. Toxic
paint and materials with a lasting toxic effect shall not be used. Every toilet
room and bathroom floor surface shall be capable of being easily maintained in
a clean and sanitary condition.
   (D)   Rodent proof. Every dwelling and accessory structure and the premises
upon which they are located shall be maintained in a rodent-free and rodent-
proof condition. All openings in exterior walls, foundations, basements, ground
or first floors and roofs that have a 1/4-inch diameter or larger opening shall
be rodent-proofed in an approved manner.
   (E)   Safe building elements. Every foundation, roof, floor, exterior and
interior wall, ceiling, inside and outside stair, every porch and balcony, and
every appurtenance shall be safe to use and capable of supporting normal loads.
   (F)   Facilities to function. Every supplied facility, piece of equipment or
utility required by this chapter and every chimney and flue shall be installed
and maintained and shall function effectively in a safe, sound and working
condition.
   (G)   Discontinuance of service of facilities. No owner or occupant shall
cause any service, facility, equipment or utility which is required under this
chapter to be removed from, shut off from, or discontinued for, any occupied
rental dwelling unit, except for temporary interruptions as may be necessary
while actual repairs or alterations are in process, or during temporary
emergencies.
   (H)   Fire and carbon monoxide protection. All rental dwelling units shall
have working fire/smoke alarms in all bedrooms and corridors leading to
bedrooms. All rental dwelling units shall have a working fire extinguisher
inside the unit. Additionally, all rental dwelling units shall be supplied with
a functioning carbon monoxide detector, unless granted a waiver from the state.
   (I)   Clandestine drug labs. Prior to offering a rental dwelling unit for
rent or for sale, the owner of a rental dwelling unit that has been found to
contain a clandestine drug lab shall, at their expense, contract with
appropriate environmental hazard testing and cleaning firms that are determined
by the Minnesota Department of Health to be competent for conducting a detailed
on-site assessment to determine sample and testing needs, clean up and
mitigation operations, follow up testing and determination that the property
risks are sufficiently reduced to allow protection of the public and human
occupancy of the rental dwelling unit.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08) Penalty, see §
116.99
§ 116.07 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   City Building Inspector.
      (1)   The City Building Inspector shall be delegated the authority to
administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The City Building Inspector is authorized to inspect all rental
dwelling units in dwellings, whether having a rental license hereunder or not.
The inspection may include the building or structure containing the rental
dwelling unit, the land upon which it is located and accessory uses or
structures related to the rental dwelling unit. All inspections authorized by
this section shall be limited to those which are done for the purpose of
seeking compliance with the applicable safety codes, and shall take place only
at reasonable hours or as may otherwise be agreed upon by the owner and the
City Building Inspector.
   (B)   Inspection criteria. The city may inspect any rental unit if it falls
within one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Upon the issuance of a rental license.
      (2)   On an annual basis prior to the renewal of rental licenses.
      (3)   Upon receipt of complaint(s) regarding the rental unit.
      (4)   Upon transfer of the property title for a change in ownership.
      (5)   Per the request of the tenant occupying the rental unit upon
certification by the tenant that the tenant has attempted to resolve the issue
(s) directly with the landlord but has been unsuccessful. The landlord shall
receive prior notice of the inspection and shall be notified that a fee for the
inspection may be imposed. A fee for such inspection shall be imposed on the
tenant only if the Council finds, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the
request was made in bad faith.
      (6)   Such unit has been abandoned by the owner or the owner of such unit
cannot be found.
      (7)   The rental dwelling unit license has been suspended, revoked or
denied.
      (8)   Water, gas, or electric service to such unit has been discontinued
as a result of nonpayment for more than 30 continuous days.
      (9)   The unit is on a parcel of land which is on the list of delinquent
taxes filed by the County Auditor with the Court Administrator of the District
Court pursuant to M.S. § 279.05.
      (10)   The city has probable cause to believe that there exists within
such unit one or more violations of the requirements of this section.
      (11)   The unit of property within which the unit is located has, within
the preceding six months, renewed a license after suspension or revocation.
      (12)   The unit is the subject of a pending notice of the city’s intent
to suspend or revoke the rental license.
   (C)   Inspection access.
      (1)   Property owners and their agents shall permit the Building
Inspector to inspect all premises governed by this section. The property owners
or their agents shall make reasonable efforts to notify tenants of planned
inspections of their rental units to the extent required by state law. If an
owner, occupant, or other person in charge of a dwelling fails or refuses to
permit free access and entry to the structure or premises, or any part thereof,
for an inspection authorized by this section, the city may, upon a showing that
probable cause (as the term is defined in Camara v. Municipal Court, 387 U.S.
523 (1967)) exists for the inspection or for the issuance of an order directing
compliance with the inspection requirements of this section with respect to
such rental dwelling, petition and obtain an order to inspect and/or a search
warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction. Except as specifically
authorized to the contrary by the court in exigent circumstances, search
warrants under this section shall be executed at reasonable times and after
reasonable efforts to give the owner (or other person in charge) and the
occupant at least five days written notice of the date and time of the
inspection authorized by the warrant. Property owners shall cooperate in the
execution of all administrative search warrants and court orders, including
providing access and entry to rented premises where directed to do so. An
authorized representative of the property owner shall be present on the
premises during inspections; however, failure of a property owner to comply
with this requirement shall not deprive the city of the authority to inspect.
Inspections shall be conducted during ordinary business hours unless otherwise
requested by the owner or tenant. Inspections are limited to looking for code
violations. Inspectors may not open containers, drawers or medicine cabinets
without consent from the tenant and no other cabinet or closet may be opened
unless reasonably necessary to check for code violations.
      (2)   Information from the inspection may not be disclosed to law
enforcement unless required by law, disclosure is necessary to abate a
methamphetamine lab or the mistreatment of minors, vulnerable adults, or
animals, or disclosure is necessary to obtain police protection for the
building inspector, after a threat of bodily harm.
      (3)   Failure of a property owner to obey any of the requirements of this
subdivision shall subject the property owner to suspension or revocation of
license, in addition to other remedies and/or penalties provided by law. Any
such suspension or revocation shall continue until the inspection sought has
been completed, any violations satisfactorily remedied, and any outstanding
fees or penalties have been paid.
      (4)   The city shall give notice to the owner of any violations of the
applicable safety codes which are discovered during any inspection.
   (D)   Vacation of building. Any rental dwelling unit which is damaged,
decayed, dilapidated, unsanitary, unsafe, vermin or rodent-infested, or which
lacks provision for basic illumination, ventilation or sanitary facilities to
the extent that the defects create a hazard to the health, safety or welfare of
the occupants or the public, may be declared unfit for human habitation by the
Building Inspector who shall then order the same vacated within a reasonable
timeframe and shall post a placard on the rental dwelling unit indicating that
it is unfit for human habitation.
   (E)   Reoccupation. It shall be unlawful for a rental dwelling unit to be
used for human habitation until the defective conditions have been corrected
and written approval has been issued by the Building Inspector. It shall be
unlawful for any person to deface or remove the declaration placard from any
rental dwelling unit.
   (F)   Secure units and vacated dwellings. The owner of any rental dwelling
unit which has been declared unfit for human habitation, or which is otherwise
vacant for a period of 60 days or more, shall make the premises safe and secure
so that it is not hazardous to the health, safety or welfare of the public and
a public nuisance within the meaning of this chapter.
   (G)   Hazardous building declaration. In the event that a rental dwelling
unit has been declared unfit for human habitation and the owner has not
remedied the defects within the prescribed time, the dwelling may be declared a
public health nuisance and treated consistent with the provisions of M.S. §
145A.04 or successor statutes.
   (H)   Malicious complaints. The Building Inspector may charge back to the
complainant the costs of investigating complaints made on any rental dwelling
unit if it is determined that the complaint is invalid.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08; Am. Ord. 12-03, passed 8-8-12)
§ 116.08 COMPLIANCE ORDER.
   (A)   Issuance. Whenever the Building Inspector determines that any rental
dwelling unit, or the premises surrounding any rental dwelling, fails to meet
the provisions of this chapter, a compliance order may be issued setting forth
the violations and ordering the owner, occupant, operator or agent to correct
the violation. This compliance order shall be in writing, describe the location
and nature of the violations of this chapter and establish a reasonable
timeframe for the correction of the violation and notify of appeal recourse. Be
served upon the owner and occupant. The notice shall be deemed to be properly
served upon the owner and occupant, if a copy of the order is:
      (1)   Served personally;
      (2)   Sent by registered mail to last known address; or
      (3)   Upon failure to place notice through subsections (1) and (2),
posted at a conspicuous place in or about the dwelling that is affected by the
order.
   (B)   Right of appeal. When it is alleged by any person to whom a compliance
order is directed that the compliance order is based upon an erroneous
interpretation of this chapter, the person may appeal the compliance order to
the City Council within 30 days of the receipt of a compliance order.
   (C)   Reinspection. The Building Inspector shall reinspect the property to
determine if the owner has complied with the compliance order. If compliance
has not been completed upon reinspection, the owner or occupant shall be
assessed a reinspection fee, in an amount determined by the City Council for
that reinspection and each subsequent reinspection for compliance. Failure to
pay the reinspection fee shall constitute a failure to comply with this
chapter.
   (D)   Execution of compliance orders. Upon the failure to comply with a
compliance order within the time set and no appeal having been taken, or upon
failure to comply with a modified compliance order within the time set, any
criminal penalty notwithstanding, the City Council may cause the cited
deficiency to be remedied as set forth in the compliance order. If the cost of
cleanup is not paid, the City Council may certify to the County Auditor-
Treasurer by November 30 all unpaid, outstanding costs of cleanup, including
staff costs of operating machinery and materials needed to complete a cleanup
and a description of the lands against which the costs arose. It shall be the
duty of the County Auditor-Treasurer, upon order of the City Council, to extent
the assessments with interest not to exceed the interest rate provided for in
M.S. § 279.03, Subdivision 1; or successor statutes, upon the tax roles of the
county for the taxes of the year in which the assessment is filed. For each
year ending November 30, the assessment with interest shall be carried into the
tax becoming due and payable in January of the following year, and shall be
enforced and collected of real and/or personal property taxes in accordance
with the provisions of the laws of the state. The assessment, if not paid,
shall become delinquent and be subject to the same penalties and the same rate
of interest as the taxes under the general laws of the state. This action shall
not preclude the City Council from seeking civil or criminal penalties from
persons responsible.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08)
§ 116.09 EMERGENCY ORDERS.
   Whenever the Building Inspector finds that an emergency exists which
requires immediate action to protect the public’s health, it may, without
notice or hearings, issue an order reciting the existence of an emergency and
require that such action be taken as deemed necessary to meet the emergency.
Notwithstanding the other provisions of this chapter, the order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom an emergency order is directed shall
comply therewith immediately.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter or who fails, neglects or refuses to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, including violations of conditions, safeguards compliance orders
or emergency orders, or who knowingly makes any material false statement or
knowing omission in any document required to be submitted under the provisions
hereof, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90
days, or both. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of this chapter,
the Building Inspector may, in addition to other remedies, initiate appropriate
civil action or proceedings to prevent, prosecute, restrain, correct or abate
such violations or threatened violations. It shall be the duty of the City
Attorney to commence such action.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-14-08)
CHAPTER 117: SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Section
   
117.01   Purpose and intent
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Permit
   
117.04   Fees
   
117.05   Conditions of permit
   
117.06   Enforcement
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate short-term vacation rentals
within the city for the purpose of allowing property owners to offer their
property for rent while mitigating associated negative impacts upon surrounding
properties and neighborhoods, as well as water and environmental quality and
general public safety.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. The property owner of record of the real estate within the city
for which a short-term rental permit is sought under this chapter.
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as living quarters for one or more persons.
   RENTAL PERIOD. A period of time for which a dwelling unit is rented.
   SHORT-TERM RENTAL PERIOD. A rental period of less than 30 days.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
§ 117.03 PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit required. No property owner shall rent or cause to be rented a
dwelling unit within the city for a period less than 30 days without first
obtaining a permit from the city.
   (B)   (1)   Application. An application for a permit to rent a dwelling unit
for a short-term rental period shall be made on a form provided by the city.
The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the applicant's
residential address and telephone numbers, the address of the proposed rental
property, and any additional information the city deems necessary. The
following items shall be submitted with the application:
         (a)   Sketch floor plan of structure, including the number of bedrooms
numbered 1, 2, 3, etc. and all other sleeping accommodations not specific to a
bedroom;
         (b)   Site plan which shows locations of property lines, the dwelling
unit(s) to be rented, the status of city water/sewer connections, and specific
parking areas that will be utilized by renters for vehicles and trailer
parking;
         (c)   The name of the person who shall be responsible for responding
to questions or concerns regarding the operation of the short-term rental
property. This information must be kept current. The contact person must be
available to accept telephone calls on a 24-hour basis at all times that the
short-term rental is rented and occupied. The contact person must have a key to
the rental unit and be able to respond to the short-term rental within 60
minutes to address issues or must have arranged for another person to address
issues within the same timeframe. The requirement for identifying a contact
person applies to each person or entity making arrangements for renting a given
short-term rental; and
         (d)   If the property was rented the prior calendar year, a written
listing of rental periods the property was rented and number of persons in each
rental period.
      (2)   Upon receipt of a completed application, the City Clerk or
designated office staff shall review the same and upon determining that the
application complies with this section, shall issue the permit. The City Clerk
or designated office staff may delay action for a reasonable period as
necessary to complete any investigation of the application or the applicant as
he or she deems necessary. If the application does not comply with this
chapter, the City Clerk or designated office staff shall deny the application.
If the City Clerk or designated office staff shall determine that an
application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (C)   Appeal. If the City Clerk or designated office staff shall deny the
permit application, he or she shall provide written notice of the denial to the
applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to appeal the denial to
the City Council by submitting a written request for a public hearing on the
denial to the official who provided the notice of denial within ten days after
service of the notice. If requested, a public hearing on the denial of a permit
application shall be held at a regular or special meeting of the City Council.
The presiding officer shall make a statement as to the reason for the hearing
and make every reasonable effort to ensure a fair and full presentation of the
facts and arguments by the applicant and the city and representatives or
counsel for each. When the public hearing is closed, the presiding officer
shall advise the City Council that any decision to affirm the denial of the
permit application must be made for failure to comply with the requirements in
this chapter. A decision shall be made by the City Council within a reasonable
time after the public hearing is closed and promptly communicated to the
applicant in writing.
   (D)   Term. All permits issued under this chapter shall fall under the
calendar licensing year of January 1 to December 31. Permit fees are not pro-
rated if issued at any time other than January 1.
   (E)   Transfers. All permits issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the permit was issued and only for the person to whom
the permit was issued, and may not be transferred to another location or
person.
   (F)   Display. All permits shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the permitted premises.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
§ 117.04 FEES.
   No permit shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate permit
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a permit under this chapter shall be
included on the fee schedule which is reviewed annually and amended from time
to time.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
§ 117.05 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   Short-term rental permits issued under this chapter shall be subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   The maximum rental period shall not be more than 30 days.
   (B)   The maximum occupancy shall be two people per bedroom.
   (C)   Properties shall not be rented for more than eight rental periods
between May 20 and September 10 each calendar year.
   (D)   Properties may not be rented to more than one party in any seven day
period.
   (E)   Additional occupancy by use of recreational vehicles, tents, accessory
structures, garages, boathouses, pole barns, sheds, fish houses, or similar
structure is not permitted.
   (F)   The dwelling unit must meet Minn. Residential Building Code
requirements regarding fire egress from all bedrooms/sleeping areas and
detector/alarm systems.
   (G)   The applicant shall provide one off-street parking space per bedroom
rented with a maximum number of vehicles equal to the number of bedrooms in the
dwelling. No on-street parking is allowed for guests.
   (H)   Parking areas must meet the side yard setback for the zoning
classification of the subject property.
   (I)   The owner shall keep a report detailing use of the home by recording
the full name, address, phone number and vehicle permit number of adult guests
using the property. A copy of the report shall be provided to the city upon
request.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
§ 117.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Order to correct violation; Permit suspension and revocation.
      (1)   If the city determines that a dwelling unit is a public nuisance,
operating without a permit or other approval required by this chapter, or
operating in violation of this chapter or any other applicable provisions of
city code, the city shall provide written notice of the violation to the
property owner and order the correction of the violation in accordance with
this chapter. Evidence for violation may be gathered at any time and is
considered admissible evidence for suspension/revocation of a permit when
collected from rental website information, neighborhood complaints,
photographic evidence, or other means of collection.
      (2)   Any short-term rental permit issued pursuant to this chapter may be
suspended for up to six months or revoked by the city for good cause. If the
city intends to suspend or revoke a short-term rental permit, the City Clerk or
designated office staff shall issue written notice of such intent to the
permittee at least 21 days before such suspension or revocation is set to
begin. The notice shall be served on the permittee or licensee in person or by
certified mail, return receipt requested, and shall include notice of the
permittee's right to appeal the suspension or revocation to the City Council by
submitting a written request for a public hearing on the suspension or
revocation to the official who provided the notice of suspension or revocation
within ten days after service of the notice.
      (3)   If requested, a public hearing on the suspension or revocation of a
permit application shall be held at a regular or special meeting of the City
Council. The presiding officer shall make a statement as to the reason for the
hearing and make every reasonable effort to ensure a fair and full presentation
of the facts and arguments by the permittee and the city and representatives or
counsel for each. When the public hearing is closed, the presiding officer
shall advise the City Council that any decision to affirm the suspension or
revocation of the permit application must be made for cause as defined in this
chapter. A decision shall be made by the City Council within a reasonable time
after the public hearing is closed and promptly communicated to the applicant
in writing.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, good cause shall include, but not be
limited to:
         (a)   Failure to comply with an order to correct a violation issued
pursuant to this section;
         (b)   Issuance of three or more violation notices under this section;
         (c)   The occurrence of one or more nuisance conditions as defined in
Ch. 90 of the Waverly City Code on the permitted property;
         (d)   Use or operation of a permitted dwelling unit in a manner that
imperils public health, safety or welfare, including but not limited to,
violation of this chapter or any other provision of local, state, or federal
law intended to protect occupants of the dwelling or the surrounding
neighborhood and community;
         (e)   Material inaccuracies in any application materials, reports or
other information submitted to the city regarding the activity for which the
permit or license was issued; or
         (f)    Conviction of a crime related to the activity for which the
permit was issued.
   (B)   Withholding permits or approvals. The city may refuse to process
applications for permits and approvals under this chapter if the application
concerns a property determined to be in violation of this chapter and where the
city has issued an order requiring the violation be corrected and the property
owner is non-compliant.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who rents a dwelling unit for a short-term rental period
without a valid short-term rental permit issued by the city under this chapter
is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly makes a false report to the city of a
violation of this chapter by another is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 117, passed 2-9-21)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   CURFEW
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Firearms and weapons
   
130.02   False alarm; Interference with Fire Department
   
130.03   Cannabis and hemp
Cross-reference:
   Excessive noise prohibited, see
§§ 90.85, et seq.
§ 130.01 FIREARMS AND WEAPONS.
   No person or persons shall use, discharge or carry air rifles or B-B guns or
carry or use sling shots within the city limits.
(Ord. 13.03, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.02 FALSE ALARM; INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to give or make, or cause to be given or
made, an alarm of fire without probable cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey
any reasonable order of the Chief at a fire, or to interfere with the Fire
Department in the discharge of its duties.
(Ord. 3.01, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.03 CANNABIS AND HEMP.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   For purposes of this section, the terms CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS
PRODUCTS, LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES, and HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS shall
have the definitions given to them in M.S. § 342.01, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any indoor or outdoor area that is used or held out for use
by the public whether owned or operated by the public or private interests.
Pursuant to M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, PUBLIC PLACE does not include the
following:
         (a)   A private residence, including the person’s curtilage or yard;
         (b)   Private property not generally accessible by the public; and
         (c)   The premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-
site consumption of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   (B)   Public use prohibited. No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a
public place. A violation of this section shall be considered a petty
misdemeanor notwithstanding any other penalty provision in the city code.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-14-2023)
CHAPTER 131: CURFEW
Section
   
131.01   Purpose
   
131.02   Definitions
   
131.03   Hours of restriction
   
131.04   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor
   
131.05   Exceptions
   
131.06   Duties of person legally responsible for minor
   
131.07   Duties of other persons
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 PURPOSE.
   The curfew for minors established by this section is maintained for four
primary reasons:
   (A)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during the
curfew hours;
   (B)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
   (C)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the curfew
hours; and
   (D)   To help parents control their minor children.
§ 131.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or Fire Department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
   OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the County Sheriff’s Dispatcher.
   PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants and pool halls.
   PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing PRIMARY CARE OR CUSTODY to the minor shall not be another minor.
   SCHOOL ACTIVITY.  An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
§ 131.03 HOURS OF RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16 years
shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other
public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10 p.m. Sunday to Thursday nights, 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday
nights, and 6 a.m. the following day, official city time.
   (B)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10 p.m. Sunday to Thursday nights, 11 p.m. Friday and Saturday
nights, and 6 a.m. the following day, official city time.
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.04 EFFECT ON CONTROL BY ADULT RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   Nothing in this section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay
out until the curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by
a parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the
control of the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
§ 131.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this section shall not apply in the following situations:
   (A)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult
person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
   (B)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his or
her parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody
of the minor;
   (C)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if in
connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence; (Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work.)
   (D)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from an
event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
   (E)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of interstate
travel during the hours of curfew;
   (F)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly or freedom of religion;
   (G)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; and/or
   (H)   To a minor who is married, has been married or is otherwise legally
emancipated.
§ 131.06 DUTIES OF PERSON LEGALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR MINOR.
   No parent, guardian or other adult having the primary care or custody of any
minor shall permit any violation of the requirements of this section by the
minor.
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.07 DUTIES OF OTHER PERSONS.
   No person operating or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or
refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or remain in his or her place of
business during the hours prohibited by this section unless the minor is
accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having primary
care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the exceptions to this section
apply.
Penalty, see § 131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Minors. Any minor found to be in violation of this section may be
adjudicated delinquent and shall be subject to the dispositional alternatives
set forth in M.S. § 260.185, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Adults. Any adult person found to be in violation of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and may be sentenced up to the maximum penalty
authorized by state law for a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Codes adopted by reference
   
150.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.03   Permits and fees
   
150.04   Violations and penalties
Securing Vacant Buildings
   
150.15   Definitions
   
150.16   Securing vacant buildings
   
150.17   Responding to the notice
   
150.18   Emergency securing of vacant buildings
   
150.19   Collection of costs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Minnesota State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of
Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to 16B.75, including all of the
amendments, rules, and regulations established, adopted and published from time
to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of Administration, through the Building
Codes and Standards Division, is hereby adopted by reference with the exception
of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this chapter. The
Minnesota State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this chapter as if
fully set out herein.
   (B)   The code is hereby incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out
herein.
      (1)   The State Building Code includes the following chapters of
Minnesota Rules, as they may be amended from time to time:
         (a)   1300, Minnesota Building Code;
         (b)   1301, Building Official Certification;
         (c)   1302, State Building Construction Approvals;
         (d)   1305, Adoption of the 1997 Uniform Building Code, including
Appendix Chapters:
            1.   3, Division I, Detention and Correctional Facilities;
            2.   12, Division II, Sound Transmission Control;
            3.   15, Reroofing;
            4.   16, Division I, Snowload Design;
            5.   29, Minimum Plumbing Fixtures; and
            6.   31, Division II, Membrane Structures.
         (e)   1307, Elevators and Related Devices;
         (f)   1315, Adoption of the 1996 National Electrical Code;
         (g)   1325, Solar Energy Systems;
         (h)   1330, Fallout Shelters;
         (i)   1335, Floodproofing Regulations;
         (j)   1340, Facilities for the Handicapped;
         (k)   1346, Adoption of the 1991 Uniform Mechanical Code;
         (l)   1350, Manufactured Homes;
         (m)   1360, Prefabricated Buildings;
         (n)   1361, Industrialized/Modular Buildings;
         (o)   1370, Storm Shelters (Manufactured Home Parks);
         (p)   4715, Minnesota Plumbing Code; and
         (q)   7670, Minnesota Energy Code.
      (2)   This municipality may adopt by reference any or all of the
following optional appendix chapters of the 1997 Uniform Building Code, as
authorized by Minn. Rules part 1305.0020(2), as it may be amended from time to
time:
         (a)   3, Division III, 1992, One- and Two-Family Dwelling Code; and
         (b)   33, Excavation and Grading.
      (3)   This municipality may adopt by reference any or all of the
following optional chapters of:
         (a)   Minn. Rules part 1306, Special Fire Protection Systems with
Option 8 (Group M, S or F occupancies with 2,000 or more gross square feet) or
8a (Group M, S or F occupancies with 5,000 or more gross square feet); and
         (b)   1335, Floodproofing Regulations, parts 1335.0600 to 1335.1200.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 1-12-99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 150.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with Minn. Rules Ch. 1300. The code shall be enforced within the
extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, Subdivision 1, when so
established by this chapter.
   (B)   This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota Certified Building
Official designated by the municipality to administer the code (M.S. § 16B.65,
Subdivision 1.)
(Ord. 99-01, passed 1-12-99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 150.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, Subdivision 1.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the municipality. In addition, a
surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by
this code, in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 1-12-99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 150.04 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of the code is a misdemeanor, according to M.S. § 16B.69.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 1-12-99; Am. Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
SECURING VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following terms shall have the
following meanings:
   CITY. The City of Waverly, County of Wright, State of Minnesota.
   SECURE. Includes, but is not limited to, installing locks, repairing windows
and doors, boarding windows and doors, posting “no trespassing” signs,
installing exterior lighting or motion-detecting lights, fencing the property,
and installing a monitored alarm or other security system consistent with M.S.
§ 463.251.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING. A building that is not being used for legal occupancy.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. A building or a portion of a building that is open to
entry by unauthorized persons without the use of tools.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building or portion of a building that meets one or more
of the following conditions:
      (1)   Unoccupied and foreclosed upon as identified by the county;
      (2)   Unoccupied and windows or entrances to the premises are boarded up
or closed off, or multiple window panes are broken and unrepaired;
      (3)   Unoccupied and doors to the premises are smashed through, broken
off, unhinged or continuously unlocked;
      (4)   Unoccupied and gas, electric or water service to the premises has
been terminated;
      (5)   Unoccupied and rubbish, trash or debris has accumulated on the
mortgaged premises;
      (6)   Unoccupied and the police or sheriff’s office has received at least
two reports of trespassers on the premises, or of vandalism or other illegal
acts being committed on the premises; and/or
      (7)   Unoccupied and the premises are deteriorating and are either below,
or are in imminent danger of falling below, minimum community standards for
public safety and sanitation.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 12-11-12)
§ 150.16 SECURING VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In general, if any building becomes vacant or unoccupied and is deemed
hazardous due to the fact that the building is open to trespass and has not
been secured, and the building could be made safe by securing the building, the
City Council may order the building secured, and shall cause notice of the
order to be served consistent with M.S. § 463.251, Subdivision 2.
      (1)   The notice must be served upon the owner of record of the premises
or the owner's agent, the taxpayer identified in the property tax records for
the parcel, and the holder of the mortgage or sheriff’s certificate.
      (2)   The notice is served by delivery or mail.
   (B)   The notice must be in writing and must include, at a minimum, a
statement that:
      (1)   Informs the owner and the holder of any mortgage or sheriff’s
certificate of the requirements found in M.S. § 463.251, Subdivision 3, that
the owner or holder of the certificate has six days to comply with the order,
or provide the Council with a reasonable plan and schedule to comply with the
order, and that costs may be assessed against the property if the person does
not secure the building.
      (2)   Informs the owner and the holder of any mortgage or sheriff’s
certificate that, within six days of the order being served, the person may
request a hearing before the governing body challenging its determination that
the property is vacant or unoccupied and hazardous.
      (3)   Notifies the holder of any sheriff’s certificate of the holder's
duty under M.S. § 582.031, Subdivision 1, paragraph (b), to enter the premises
to protect the premises from waste and trespass if the order is not challenged
or set aside, and there is prima facie evidence of abanondment of the property
as described in M.S. § 582.032, Subdivision 7.
   (C)   Service by mail is completed upon mailing a copy of the order to the
owner by first class mail at the last known address.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 12-11-12)
§ 150.17 RESPONDING TO THE NOTICE.
   (A)   The owner of the building or the holder of the sheriff’s certificate
of sale has six days after the order is served to do one of the following:
      (1)   Comply with the order;
      (2)   Provide the Council with a reasonable plan and schedule to comply
with the order; or
      (3)   Request a hearing before the City Council to challenge its
determination that the property is vacant or unoccupied and hazardous. If the
owner or holder of the sheriff’s certificate fails to take one of these actions
within the allotted time, the City Council must have the building properly
secured.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 12-11-12)
§ 150.18 EMERGENCY SECURING OF VACANT BUILDINGS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 463.251, Subdivision 4, when the City Building Official,
County Sheriff or Fire Chief determines that an emergency exists with respect
to the health or safety of persons in the community, and immediate boarding and
securing of a building is required, and where immediate danger will exist to
children, transients or other members of the community without the immediate
boarding or securing of the building, the Building Official, Police Chief or
Fire Chief may waive all notice requirements herein and immediately board or
otherwise secure the building, provided that:
   (A)   The conditions showing the existence of an emergency are documented in
writing by the Building Official, County Sheriff, Fire Chief or their
designees.
   (B)   Notice is mailed immediately by the department invoking this section
to the owner of record of the premises, the taxpayer identified in the property
tax records for the parcel, and the holder of the mortgage or sheriff’s
certificate.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 12-11-12)
§ 150.19 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   All costs incurred by the city for securing a vacant building under this
subchapter may be charged against the real property as a special assessment
pursuant to M.S. § 463.251.
(Ord. 12-04, passed 12-11-12)
CHAPTER 151: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Permit required; application
   
151.03   Safety fencing
   
151.04   Lighting
   
151.05   Nuisance
   
151.06   Drainage
   
151.07   Filling pools
   
151.08   Applicability
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   POOLS. As used in this chapter a POOL is an enclosure, designed, intended or
used for the containment of water, whether constructed below ground level or
above ground level, which is designed, intended or used for swimming, wading,
soaking or other recreational use by the owner or tenant of the property upon
which the pool is constructed or by their family or invited guests including
specifically, but not exclusively swimming pools, wading pools, lap pools,
spas, whirpools, jacuzzis and excluding children’s plastic play pools.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
§ 151.02 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   (A)   (1)   No pool or spa shall be constructed or established, and no pool
construction shall be commenced in the city without first obtaining a building
permit from the city.
      (2)   Application for a swimming pool permit shall be made to the City
Clerk/Treasurer. A fee set by the Council shall be submitted with the
application to cover costs incurred. The application for the permit shall
include, without limitation, the following information:
         (a)   Complete plans and specifications for the construction of the
pool;
         (b)   A site plan showing the location of all structures on the lot,
including the house, garage, fences, trees, overhead or underground wiring,
utility easements and other significant improvements or natural features;
         (c)   The proposed location of pumps, filters, electrical power source
(if applicable), flushing and drainage, outlets and other operational features;
and
         (d)   Location and specifications of protective fencing.
   (B)   Pools shall be constructed as to avoid hazard or damage to the
occupants of the subject property or the occupants of adjacent property and
shall meet the minimum requirements as established in
Ch. 153 of this code.
      (1)   Pools shall be considered accessory structures in all residential
districts and must comply with the setbacks as set forth in
Ch. 153.
      (2)   Pools shall only be constructed in rear yards.
      (3)   All electrical installations shall comply with current building,
electrical and other applicable state and local codes.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
§ 151.03 SAFETY FENCING.
   (A)   (1)   A safety fence, so as to inhibit climbing, at least five feet
and no greater than eight feet in height, shall completely enclose any outdoor
pool. All openings or points on entry into the pool area shall be equipped with
gates or doors. All gates and doors shall have a latch which shall be
constructed and so placed as to be inaccessible to small children. All gates
and doors shall be latched when the pool is not in use.
      (2)   Any opening between the bottom of the fence and the ground level
shall not exceed three inches.
   (B)   The combined height of the fence and the pool sides together shall be
at least five but no greater than eight feet in height.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.04 LIGHTING.
   Any outdoor lighting of the pool shall not be permitted to spill or shine
upon adjacent properties.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.05 NUISANCE.
   The conduct of persons and the operation of pools shall be the
responsibility of the owner and the tenant thereof.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
§ 151.06 DRAINAGE.
   All back flushing water or pool drainage water shall be directed onto the
property of the owner or onto approved drainage ways. No pool water shall be
drained into the city’s sanitary sewer. Drainage onto public streets or other
public drainage ways shall require the permission of the city.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.07 FILLING POOLS.
   The filling of pools from fire hydrants or other public facilities is
prohibited without prior approval of authorized city personnel.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
§ 151.08 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all pools. Existing pools will
be allowed 120 days from the date of passage to comply with the regulations as
set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 99-25, passed 2-9-99)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Title
   
152.02   Purpose
   
152.03   Compliance
   
152.04   Definitions
Platting Procedures
   
152.15   Preapplication meeting
   
152.16   Preliminary plat approval
   
152.17   Preliminary plat requirements
   
152.18   Final plat approval
   
152.19   Final plat requirements
   
152.20   Trunk sanitary sewer and watermain fees
General Standards
   
152.30   Established monuments
   
152.31   Preservation of natural features
   
152.32   Land subject to flooding
   
152.33   Conveyance by metes and bounds
   
152.34   Variances and waivers
   
152.35   Design standards
   
152.36   Street design
   
152.37   Easements
   
152.38   Blocks
   
152.39   Lots
   
152.40   Public land dedication
Required Improvements
   
152.50   Subdivider responsibility
   
152.51   Monuments
   
152.52   Streets
   
152.53   Utilities
   
152.54   Drainage facilities
   
152.55   Sidewalks and driveways
   
152.56   Tree planting; street trees
   
152.57   Specifications and inspections
   
152.58   Financing
   
152.59   Review and inspection
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.70   Responsible official
   
152.71   Building permit
   
152.72   Minor subdivisions
   
152.73   Planned unit developments review
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 TITLE.
   These regulations shall hereafter be known, cited and referred to as the
“Subdivision Chapter.”
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.02 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended
from time to time, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   Assure that new additions will harmonize with overall development
objectives of the community;
   (B)   Encourage well-planned subdivisions by establishing optimum
development standards;
   (C)   Secure the rights of the general public with respect to public land
and water;
   (D)   Improve land records by establishing standards for surveys and plats;
   (E)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting therefrom;
   (F)   Assure that public improvements such as streets, utilities and
drainage are constructed to satisfactory standards; and
   (G)   Provide common grounds of understanding between prospective
subdividers and municipal officials.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.03 COMPLIANCE.
   All subdivisions of land within the corporate limits of the city hereafter
submitted for approval shall fully comply in all respects with the regulations
set forth herein. Plans of group developments for housing commercial,
industrial or other uses or for any combination of uses designed for sale or
rental purposes shall be presented in the same manner as subdivisions for the
review of the Planning Commission and the approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way usually 20 feet or less in width which normally
affords a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property.
   ARTERIAL STREET. Provides for traffic movement to and from municipalities
and their surrounding rural areas, to and from regional highways and collector
streets and between major parts of an urban area. Intersections are at grade
and direct access to abutting property is secondary to traffic movement.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
   CITY PLANNER. The City Planner or a duly authorized consultant.
   COLLECTOR STREET. Distributes the internal traffic within an area of a
community, such as a residential neighborhood or industrial district, between
the arterials and local streets, provides access to abutting land. Continuity
should be sufficient to accommodate short trips, but discourage through
movement.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The document or series of documents that represent
adopted policy of the city and which serve as official guides to the orderly
development of the city and its environs.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic and the other
end being permanently terminated to a vehicular turn-around.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to a person or persons or to the
general public for a specific use of the land.
   ENGINEER. The City Engineer or a duly authorized consultant.
   FLOOD FRINGE AREA. The portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The area adjoining a watercourse which has been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
flood plains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   FRONTAGE/LOCAL SERVICE ROAD. A road intended primarily to provide access to
abutting property and located adjacent and generally parallel to a thoroughfare
to which access is prohibited or restricted.
   HALF STREET. A street having only one-half of its intended roadway width
developed to accommodate traffic.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sewer and water
facilities, grading, street signs, street lighting, plantings and other items
for the welfare of property owners and/or the general public.
   LOCAL STREET. Provides for direct access to residential, commercial,
industrial or other abutting property. Continuity is not imperative; all
through traffic movement should be discouraged.
   LOT. A piece, parcel or plot of land intended for building development or as
a unit for transfer of ownership.
   PARKWAY. Provides for pleasure driving within an urban area along a
specially landscaped and protected roadway. PARKWAYS connect major points of
interest such as major parks, lakes, institutions and other scenic and
recreational areas. In many cases, parkways serve the function of collector
streets and occasionally serve as arterial streets.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. The right-of-way across or within a block for use by
pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrian way, greenway, crosswalk
or however otherwise designated.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land containing not less than five
acres and which contains or will contain two or more principal residential
buildings, developed or to be developed under  unified ownership or control,
the development of which is unique and of a substantially different character
than that of the surrounding areas, including but not limited to the provision
of common open space for use by all residents of the tract.
   PLAT. A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision
is presented to the Planning Commission and City Council for approval, and is
ultimately recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred and reasonably characteristic of what can be expected to occur
with an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year recurrence interval.
   REGIONAL HIGHWAY. Provides for through traffic movement at relatively high
speeds between municipalities. With few exceptions, intersections are at grade
and direct access to abutting property is discouraged.
   SITE MAP. A map showing existing conditions including all platted parcels,
streets, rights-of-way, easements and any predominant topography or natural
features such as lakes, wooded areas and the like.
   SUBDIVIDER or DEVELOPER. A person, firm or corporation undertaking the
subdivision or re- subdivision of a tract or parcel of land according to the
requirements of this chapter.
   SUBDIVISION. The division or redivision of a lot, tract or parcel of land by
plat, registered land survey or by metes and bounds description, regardless of
how it is to be used. The following classes shall be exempt:
      (1)   The division of land for agricultural purposes into parcels greater
than five acres where no new streets, roads or other rights-of-way are
involved; and
      (2)   The division of a lot of record for the purpose of attachment to
contiguous lots provided no residual plot is left.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
PLATTING PROCEDURES
§ 152.15 PREAPPLICATION MEETING.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of any plat for consideration by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider/developer shall meet with the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission or the City Planner to introduce himself or herself as a
potential subdivider and learn what shall be expected of him or her in a
capacity and to determine the relationship of his or her proposed subdivision
with the comprehensive plan for the affected area. At this time, or at
subsequent informal meetings with the city officials the subdivider may submit
a general sketch plan of the proposed subdivision and preliminary proposals for
sewer and water connections. The sketch plan may be presented in simple form
showing any zoning changes which would be required, and showing that
consideration has been given to the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
existing community facilities that would serve it, to neighboring subdivisions
and development, to the topography of the site and to the comprehensive plan
for the area.
   (B)   The subdivider/developer is urged to avail himself or herself of the
advice and assistance of the Planning Commission and staff at this point in
order to save time and effort and facilitate the approval of the preliminary
plat.
   (C)   The subdivider/developer shall be required to enter into a
predevelopment agreement with the city. The agreement must be signed prior to a
developer meeting with the Planning Commission/City Council for review of a
sketch plan of the proposed subdivision.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-04Z, passed
12-14-04)
§ 152.16 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   There will be required a cash fee of $100, plus $5 for each lot up to
a maximum amount of $500. This fee will be used for the expenses of the city in
connection with approval or disapproval of the plan and any final plat which
may thereafter be submitted. In the event the proposed plat is ten lots or
less, a fee of $100 shall be charged.
   (B)   The subdivider shall engage a qualified land planner, registered land
surveyor or engineer to prepare a preliminary plat of the area to be
subdivided.
   (C)   Subdivider shall review proposed utility easements with utility
companies and submit letter thereof from company.
   (D)   The subdivider shall submit 14 or more copies of the preliminary plat
to the Clerk/Treasurer. The subdivider shall include a written statement along
with the preliminary plat describing the proposed subdivision. The written
statement shall include the anticipated development schedule, a table showing
total number of lots and sizes, utilization of existing natural features and
vegetation and the like.
   (E)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall determine whether the application for
the preliminary plat has been completed in compliance with this chapter. If
not, it shall be immediately returned to the application with a list of what is
necessary in order for the application to be considered complete. If so, the
City Clerk/Treasurer shall submit one copy of the preliminary plat to each
Planning Commission member, one copy to the City Engineer, one copy to County
Engineer if the plat borders a county road and one copy to the District
Engineer of the Minnesota Highway Department if the plat borders a federal,
state or state aid highway.
   (F)   All agencies receiving copies of the preliminary plat shall transmit a
report of their reaction together with any supporting material to the Planning
Commission prior to the meeting at which the plat is to be considered. The
subdivider shall be required to pay the cost of the services.
   (G)   The Planning Commission may require qualified technical and staff
services such as economic and legal to review the preliminary plat and advise
on its suitability regarding general planning; conformity with plans of other
private and public organizations and agencies; adequacy of proposed water
supply, sewage disposal, drainage and flood control, special assessment,
procedures and other features. The subdivider shall be required to pay the cost
of the services.
   (H)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the preliminary
plat within 45 days of its filing date, and the City Clerk/Treasurer will
publish notice of the time and place thereof in the official newspaper and send
notice to property owners within 350 feet of the exterior boundary of the
proposed plat. Notices will be made at least ten days prior to the day of the
hearing. A Planning Commission meeting may serve as a public hearing provided
the legal requirements pertaining to the same are met.
   (I)   At the public hearing, the subdivider and all interested persons shall
have the opportunity to be heard. The Commission shall then prepare a report
recommending approval, disapproval or approval with conditions and submit it to
the City Council along with a copy being sent to the subdivider within 14 days
of the public hearing. The subdivider may proceed with the final plat upon
approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.17 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following information is required to be shown on or to accompany
all preliminary plats:
      (1)   A site map, as defined herein, showing the area of the proposed
plat, including land within 300 feet of its boundary;
      (2)   A location map showing the proposed plat’s location within the
corporate limits;
      (3)   Existing and proposed zoning;
      (4)   Proposed streets, easements, alleys, pedestrian ways and the like,
along with the proposed lot and block layout (proposed dimension shall be
shown);
      (5)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider, surveyor and
designer;
      (6)   Proposed name for plat with no duplication of or similarity to the
name of any plat heretofore recorded in the county; and
      (7)   General information including date, north indication and scale.
   (B)   Any of the following information may be required to be shown on or to
accompany any preliminary plat where, due to site conditions, they are deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission or the City Planner in order to make a
valid assessment of the proposal. The subdivider will be made aware of these
additional requirements at the preapplication meeting.
      (1)   Accurate legal description of the tract to be subdivided and its
total acreage;
      (2)   Proposed buildings and use and any related improvements such as
sidewalks, lighting and the like;
      (3)   Limits of flood plain, floodway and flood fringe areas as defined
herein;
      (4)   Existing and proposed utilities;
      (5)   Boundary lines and ownership of adjoining unplatted land;
      (6)   Specific existing conditions such as land use, vegetation, soils,
contours at two-foot intervals, buildings, sidewalks and the like;
      (7)   Proposed street grades and drainage;
      (8)   Parcels or land to be dedicated or reserved for public purpose;
      (9)   Building set-back lines; and
      (10)   Other data as may be requested by the City Council or Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Where a tract of land is proposed for subdivision that is a part of a
larger logical subdivision unit, the Planning Commission may cause to be
prepared a “plan of the entire area,” the plan to be used by the Commission to
aid in judging the proposed plat, and to show in at least a preliminary or
sketch form the proposed layout of streets, blocks, lots and the proposed use
of land if different from residential.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.18 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The subdivider shall engage a registered land surveyor to prepare a
final plat which shall constitute that portion of the preliminary plat which
the subdivider proposes to record and develop at the time.
   (B)   The subdivider shall submit 14 or more copies of the final plat to the
City Clerk/Treasurer at least ten days before the Planning Commission meeting
at which the plat is to be considered. The final plat shall be submitted within
one year of preliminary plat approval. Otherwise, the approval shall become
null and void. In the event the preliminary plat is not entirely platted in
final form within five years of approval, the preliminary plat shall be
resubmitted to the Planning Commission for its review and action, otherwise the
initial approval shall be considered null and void.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall transmit one copy of the final plat to
each member of the Planning Commission and one copy to the City Engineer and
City Planner no later than three days after its receipt.
   (D)   The City Engineer and City Planner shall review the final plat and
shall transmit a report of his or her opinions to all Commission members prior
to the meeting at which the plat is to be considered.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall study the final plat, considering the
reports of the City Engineer and City Planner and other City Departments and/or
employees, and then shall transmit its action to the City Council within 30
days of submittal to the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (F)   The City Council shall act upon the final plat within 30 days of
Planning Commission approval, whereupon the City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify
the subdivider of the Council’s action.
   (G)   The subdivider shall file the approved final plat with the City Clerk/
Treasurer, and shall record the final plat with the County Recorder within 60
days of final plat approval. Otherwise, the approval shall be considered null
and void.
   (H)   The subdivider shall furnish a Mylar or Cronaflex reproducible and one
paper print of the final plat as recorded to the City Clerk/Treasurer within 60
days.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.19 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform to all state platting regulations and
shall contain all data and adhere to all standards required by the County
Surveyor.
   (B)   It shall basically be comprised of, but not be limited to the
following:
      (1)   A map showing all dimensions and accurate graphic representations
of the plat’s boundary, lots, blocks, streets, alleys, easements, pedestrian
walkways, parks and the like;
      (2)   General information such as north indication; legend for symbols
representing monuments and the like; graphic scale (no smaller than one inch
equaling 100 feet); and the like; and
      (3)   Formal dedication portion including accurate legal description;
notarized certification by owners and mortgage holders of the adoption of the
plat and dedication of the public portions thereof; notarized certification by
a registered land surveyor to the effect that a survey has been performed and
that all monuments are in place and the like; certification showing that all
taxes currently due on the property to be platted have been paid in full; form
for approval by the Planning Commission; form for approval by the City Council;
form for approval by the County Recorder; and any other forms or certifications
needed for final acceptance.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.20 TRUNK SANITARY SEWER AND WATERMAIN FEES.
   (A)   Fees. As a condition to subdivision plat approval, subdividers shall
pay both a Trunk Sanitary Sewer Fee and a Trunk Watermain Fee to the city to
fund the sanitary sewer and watermain improvements required by the proposed
development. The city shall establish the trunk fees by resolution based on the
subdivider’s acreage and shall periodically update the fees to account for the
changes in costs and revenues. The city shall incorporate these trunk fees into
a development agreement with the subdivider.
   (B)   Violation. Every person violating this section when he or she performs
an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act when such
failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise stated in
specific provisions.
(Ord. 01-06, passed 11-13-01)
GENERAL STANDARDS
§ 152.30 ESTABLISHED MONUMENTS.
   All federal, state, county and other official monuments, benchmarks,
triangulation points and stations shall be preserved in their precise location;
and it shall be the responsibility of the subdivider to insure that these
markers are maintained in good condition during construction and development.
All section, quarter section and sixteenth section covers shall be duly
described and tied.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.31 PRESERVATION OF NATURAL FEATURES.
   The Planning Commission may establish any existing natural features in order
to preserve any trees, groves, water courses and falls, beaches, historic
sites, vistas and similar irreplaceable assets which add value to all
developments and to the community as a whole.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.32 LAND SUBJECT TO FLOODING.
   No plat shall be approved for any subdivision which covers an area subject
to periodic flooding or which is otherwise poorly drained unless the subdivider
agrees to make improvements which will, in the opinion of the City Engineer,
make the area completely safe for occupancy and provide adequate street and lot
drainage and conform to applicable regulations of other agencies such as the
U.S. Corps of Engineers and the Department of Natural Resources. In addition,
the plats may not be approved if the cost of providing municipal services to
protect the flood plain area would impose an unreasonable economic burden upon
the city.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.33 CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   No conveyance of land in which the land conveyed is described by metes
and bounds, or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made after
April 21, 1961 shall be made or recorded unless the parcel described in the
conveyance:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record at the effective date of this
chapter;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey that which was
entered into prior to the date;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 2½ acres in area and 150
feet in width on the effective date of this chapter; or
      (4)   Is a single parcel of land of not less than five acres in area and
300 feet in width.
   (B)   Building permits may be withheld for new primary structures on tracts
which have been subdivided and conveyed by this method, and the city may refuse
to take over tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair or maintain any
tracts.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.34 VARIANCES AND WAIVERS.
   Where the City Council and the Planning Commission find that extraordinary
and unnecessary hardships may result from strict compliance with this chapter,
it may vary the regulations so that the general intent may be preserved and the
public interest protected. Variations will not have the effect of nullifying
the intent and purpose of the comprehensive plan, the official map or
Ch. 153 of this code.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.35 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   Generally, design standards shall assure that the layout of the subdivision
harmonizes with existing plans affecting the development of its surroundings
and shall be in conformity with the city’s development objectives for the
entire area. No subdivision development shall so change the pattern of water
drainage as to cause water drainage problems in the area outside the
subdivision under construction.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.36 STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   General design. The design of all streets shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic,
to topographic conditions, to run-off of storm water and to the proposed uses
of the area to be served.
   (B)   Extension and projection. Where new streets extend existing adjoining
streets, their projection shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case
less than the minimum required width.
   (C)   Arrangement. Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement
of streets in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper projection
of streets. When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to
being subdivided, the new streets shall be carried to the boundaries of the
unsubdivided land.
   (D)   Widths and grades. The following standards of street design shall be
observed by the subdivider:
Street category Max. Width R-O-W Min. Width Max. Grade* Min. Drainage Grade
                                 Pavement**
Street category     Max. Width R-O-W Min. Width Max. Grade* Min. Drainage Grade
                                     Pavement**
Parkway             100 feet         44 feet    5%          0.5%
Arterial            80 feet          44 feet    4%          0.5%
Collection          70 feet          44 feet    5%          0.5%
Local               66 feet          32 feet    7%          0.5%
Cul-de-Sac Frontage 60 feet          32 feet    7%          0.5%
NOTES TO TABLE:
* - To assure a safe and reasonable sight distance at intersections a lesser
maximum grade may be required.
** - Face of curb to face of curb.
 
   (E)   Culs-de-sac. Turn-arounds shall have a minimum outside roadway
diameter of 100 feet and a minimum street property line diameter of 120 feet.
Maximum distance between street intersections and Turn-arounds or between turn-
arounds shall be 500 feet measured along the street center line from the
intersection of origin or from the center point of the turn-around.
   (F)   Local streets. Local streets shall be so aligned that their use by
through traffic shall be discouraged.
   (G)   Street jogs. Street jogs with center line off-sets of less than 125
feet shall be avoided.
   (H)   Street intersections.
      (1)   Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at right angles and
no intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees. It must be
evident that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged.
      (2)   No intersection shall contain more than four “corners.”
   (I)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited except where the
Council finds it to be practicable to require the dedication of the other half
when the adjoining property is subdivided. In such event, access to the half
street shall be prohibited until the adjoining property is subdivided.
   (J)   Street names. Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing
and named streets shall bear the names of the existing streets. In no case
shall the name of the proposed street duplicate names, including phonetic
similarities, elsewhere in the city.
   (K)   Private streets. Public improvements shall not be approved for any
private street.
   (L)   Local service drives. Where a proposed plat is adjacent to a major
thoroughfare, the City Council may require the developer to provide local
service drives along the right-of-way of the facilities, or they may require
that lots should back on thoroughfares, in which case, vehicular and pedestrian
access between the lots and thoroughfares shall be prohibited.
   (M)   Access to arterial and collector roadways. Where a proposed plat is
adjacent to an arterial or collector roadway as designated by the comprehensive
plan, spacing between access points to the thoroughfares of less than 860 feet
for collectors and 1,320 feet for arterials shall be avoided except where
impractical or impossible due to existing property division or topography.
   (N)   Corners. Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a
radius of not less than 15 feet.
   (O)   Residential alleys. Alleys shall be prohibited unless special
permission is granted by the City Council for their provision.
   (P)   Hardship to owner of adjoining property. The street arrangements shall
not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in platting
their own land and providing convenient access to it.
   (Q)   Reverse curves. Tangents of at least 100 feet in length shall be
introduced between reverse curves on collector streets and 50 feet on lesser
streets.
   (R)   Pedestrian walkways. The Planning Commission and/or City Council shall
require the provision of pedestrian ways in proximity to public service areas
such as parks, schools, shopping facilities or in other appropriate locations
of a similar nature. The design of the pedestrian walkways shall be considered
in their relation, to existing and planned pedestrian walkways to reasonable
circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions, to run-off of storm water
and to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (S)   Curves. Vertical and horizontal curves shall meet the State Highway
Department standard.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.37 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utilities.
      (1)   Easements of at least ten feet wide centered on rear lot lines
shall be provided for utilities where necessary. Easements for storm or
sanitary sewers shall be at least 20 feet wide. They shall have continuity of
alignment from block to block. Temporary construction easements may be required
where installation depths are greater than ten feet.
      (2)   Utility easements shall be kept free of any vegetation or
structures which would interfere with the free movement of utility service
vehicles.
   (B)   Water courses. When a subdivision is traversed by a water course,
drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the water
courses, and with the further width or construction as may be determined to be
necessary by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.38 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,320 feet and shall not be
less than 400 feet, unless impractical due to existing property division or
topography.
   (B)   Pedestrian ways.
      (1)   In blocks longer than 600 feet, a pedestrian crossway with a
minimum right-of-way of 20 feet shall be required near the center of the block.
      (2)   Additional accessways to schools, parks and other destinations
shall be provided if requested by the Planning Commission at the time of
preliminary plat review.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.39 LOTS.
   (A)   Layout. Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to
straight street lines or radial to curved street lines. Lots with frontage on
two parallel local streets shall be prohibited.
   (B)   Size and dimension. Minimum lot area and lateral dimensions shall be
as set forth in
Ch. 153 of this code.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least 10% wider than the
minimum lot width required unless this requirement results in corner lot widths
in excess of 100 feet, in which case the requirement shall not apply.
   (D)   Natural features. In the subdivision of land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development and which may alter normal lot platting.
   (E)   Lots along thoroughfares/railroads.
      (1)   There shall be no direct vehicular access from residential lots to
arterial streets, and the access to collector streets shall be avoided where
possible.
      (2)   Residential lots shall be separated from highways, arterial streets
and railroad rights-of-way by a 25-foot buffer strip, which may be in the form
of added depth or width of lots backing on or siding on the thoroughfares or
railroad right-of-way.
   (F)   Lot remnants. Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must
be added to adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an
unusable outlot or parcel unless the owner can show plans for the future use of
the remnant.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.40 PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. All developments or landowners requesting platting or
replatting of land shall convey to the city, or dedicate to the public use, a
percentage of such proposal for the public use as parks, playgrounds, trails,
or open space. The city, at its discretion, may accept cash in lieu of land to
be dedicated, or a combination of land and cash dedication.
   (B)   Dedication requirements. As a prerequisite to any subdivision
approval, and at the sole determination of the city, applicants and/or
developers shall dedicate land for parks, playgrounds, public open spaces,
trails, or other public uses and/or shall make a cash contribution to the
city's park dedication fund roughly related to the anticipated effect of the
subdivision on the city's park and trail system. The amounts listed in this
section are the city's best estimate of the dedication or cash contribution
needed to offset the effect of the subdivision on the park and trail system.
The requirement may also be met with a combination of land and cash or land,
cash, and improvements, if approved by the City Council.
      (1)   Land dedication requirements.
         (a)   Residential. In all new residential subdivisions, 10% of the
area subdivided shall be dedicated for public space. This 10% shall be
calculated on the gross area. The land dedicated for public use shall be in
addition to property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements, stormwater
ponding, or other public ways. No areas may be dedicated for public use until
such areas have been approved by the City Council as suitable and necessary for
the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
         (b)   Non-residential. In all new commercial or industrial
subdivisions, 5% of the area subdivided shall be dedicated for public space.
This 5% shall be calculated on the gross area. The land dedicated for public
use shall be in addition to property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements,
stormwater ponding, or other public ways. No areas may be dedicated for public
use until such areas have been approved by the City Council as suitable and
necessary for the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
      (2)   Cash requirements.
         (a)   Amount of payment required.
            1.    When a subdivision is proposed, at the option of the city,
the developer may pay a cash fee in lieu of such land dedication. The cash fee
shall be a payment to the city of a sum equal to the percentage listed in
division (B)(1) of the undeveloped value of the land to be subdivided. The
undeveloped land value shall be the value of the land at the time of final plat
approval.
            2.   The determination of the value of the land for purposes of
park dedication shall be determined jointly by the City Council, or its agent,
and the developer. If the City Council and the developer cannot agree on the
land value, then the land values shall be established on the basis of the
average of two independent appraisals by professional appraisers. If the city
and the developer cannot agree on the appraisers, the city and the developer
shall each appoint one. The cost of the appraisals shall be paid by the
developer.
         (b)   Timing of payment. Cash contributions shall be paid prior to the
city's signature of and release of the final plat, unless otherwise specified
in the development agreement. For subdivisions that do not require a
development agreement, the cash contribution shall be paid before the city
releases the signed approval of the subdivision for recording.
      (3)   Cash and land combination.
         (a)   The city, upon consideration of a particular type of
development, may require that a lesser parcel of land should be dedicated due
to particular features of the development. In such cases, a cash contribution
shall be required in addition to the land dedication to ensure that
compensation is received for the full amount of the impact on the city's park
and trail system. The amount of cash required shall be calculated by
determining the percentage of land donated and applying the shortfall to the
amount of cash that would have been required had no land been donated.
         (b)   The formula is outlined as follows:
 
Percentage of Land Not x Total Cash Contribution for = Balance of Cash
Dedicated                the Entire Subdivision        Contribution
 
         (c)   For example, in a residential subdivision, if only a 6% rather
than a 10% land dedication requirement was made, the city would calculate the
amount of the cash dedication that would have been required for the entire
subdivision and would take 40% of that amount (since 60% of the land dedication
requirement was made). If there were 12 acres valued at $15,000 an acre, the
cash requirement (assuming that no land was dedicated) would be $18,000 (12
acres x $15,000/acre x 10%). Since 60% of the land dedication requirement was
met, the city would require 40% of the cash dedication requirement or $7,200
($18,000 x 40%) to make up the difference and fully compensate the city for the
impact of the proposed subdivision.
      (4)   Improvement of land.
         (a)   The city shall identify land needed for park uses and such land
shall be suitable for park development. In the event dedicated park lands are
unsuitable for immediate use because of topographic or other limitations, the
developer shall grade and seed park lands for such suitable use.
         (b)   In lieu of the full land or full combination of land and cash
contribution, the developer may agree to make certain improvements to the
donated land as required and approved by the city, including but not limited
to, paving or the installation of park equipment, such as playground equipment,
basketball courts, tennis courts, and the like in an amount equal to the land
or cash required but not contributed. Such improvements shall be included in
the development agreement.
      (5)   Credit for private open space. Where private open space for park
and recreational purposes is provided in a proposed subdivision, such areas may
be used for partial credit, at the discretion of the Council, against the
requirement of dedication for park and recreational purposes, provided the City
Council finds it is in the public interest to do so. No credit shall be given
unless at least the following minimum factors are satisfied:
         (a)   The land area must be available for use, without preference, of
all of the residents of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   The required setbacks must not be included in the computation of
such land area;
         (c)   The use of the private open space must be restricted for park
and recreational purposes by recorded covenants or declarations which run with
the land in favor of the owners of the property within the subdivision and
cannot be eliminated without the prior approval of the City Council;
         (d)   The proposed private open space must be of sufficient size,
shape, location, and topography for park and recreational purposes or must
contain unique natural features that are important to be preserved; and
         (e)   The proposed open space must reduce the demand for public
recreational facilities to serve the development.
      (6)   Planned Unit Developments (PUDS).
         (a)   Planned Unit Developments with mixed land uses shall make cash
and/or land contributions in accordance with this section based upon the
percentage of land devoted to various uses.
         (b)   Land area conveyed or dedicated shall be in addition to and not
in lieu of open space requirements for PUDs.
      (7)   Different number of lots and units or additional land. If the
number of lots or the number of dwelling units is increased, or if land outside
of the previously recorded plat is added, then the park land dedication and/or
park cash contributions shall be based on the additional units/lots and on the
additional land being added to the plat.
      (8)   Minor subdivision. A park dedication or cash contribution shall be
required in the case of a minor subdivision for each vacant lot according to
the schedule set forth in division (B)(1) through (4).
      (9)   Exemption: same number of lots and units. Where a park dedication
or cash contribution has been made, property being replatted with the same
number of lots and the same number of dwelling units shall be exempt from all
park land dedication requirements.
   (C)   Trails. The developer shall be required to construct trails in a
manner determined by the city. The developer shall be required to construct
trails on at least every other street of the property to be developed and to
connect to existing or planned city trails.
   (D)   Determining land to be donated.
      (1)   Land suitability factors. Land shall be reasonably suitable for its
intended use and shall be at a location convenient to the people to be served.
Land shall be contiguous to the subdivision unless approved by the City
Council. Factors used in evaluating the adequacy of proposed park and
recreational areas shall include size, shape, topography, geology, hydrology,
tree cover, access and location, and future park needs pursuant to the
Comprehensive Plan. Wetlands and drainage ways shall not be eligible for park
dedication credit. Park land shall not contain stormwater detention ponds or
lift stations. Park land shall be above the ordinary high water level. Land
shall have a 1% slope unless approved by the City Council. Swales and waterways
shall be confined to the outer ten feet of the dedicated park land. Areas
unsuitable for park development will not be considered for dedication unless
specifically accepted by the City Council for an intended public purpose. Land
with trash, junk, pollutants, and/or unwanted structures is not acceptable.
      (2)   Approval procedure. The applicant shall confer with city staff,
consultants, and the Park Commission at the time of concept plan and prior to
the preliminary plat public hearing to secure a recommendation as to the
location of any property that should be dedicated to the public, such as parks,
playgrounds, trails, or other public property. The preliminary plat shall show
the location and dimensions of all areas to be dedicated in this manner.
Proposed contours shall be shown on the plans. Such contribution requirement
recommendations will be considered at a joint special meeting with the Park
Commission and Planning and Zoning Commission. The cost of the joint special
meeting shall be paid by developer. The recommendation of the Park Commission
and Planning and Zoning Commission shall be sent to the City Council for
approval.
   (E)   Calculating density requirements. Land area conveyed or dedicated to
the city shall not be used in calculating density requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 07-04, passed 7-10-07)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.50 SUBDIVIDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   The subdivider/developer shall be required to provide the following
improvements for residential subdivision unless the city elects to do so under
a cash escrow agreement.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.51 MONUMENTS.
   Steel monuments shall be placed within six inches of final elevation at all
lot corners, block corners, angle points, points of curves in streets and at
intermediate points as shown on the final plat. The installation shall be the
subdivider’s expense and responsibility. All U.S., state, county or other
official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in precise position.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.52 STREETS.
   (A)   Grading. Streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-way
in accordance with street grades submitted to and approved by the City Engineer
or as approved by him or her. All street grading and gravel base construction
shall be in accordance with specifications on file in the City Engineer’s
Office. Grading shall be complete prior to installation of applicable
underground utilities, either private or public in nature. Gravel base
construction shall be undertaken after completion of the installation of
underground utilities.
   (B)   Surfacing. Following City Engineer approval of street grading and
after utility installation, streets shall be surfaced and provided with
concrete curbs and gutters in accordance with the latest recommended plans and
specifications prepared by the City Engineer, approved by the City Council and
on file in the City Clerk/Treasurer’s office.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.53 UTILITIES.
   (A)   All utilities, whether private or public, shall be installed
underground so as to enhance the visual appearance of the area, unless special
permission is granted by the City Council for other installations.
   (B)   Where utilities are to be installed in street or alley rights-of-way,
the installations shall take place prior to street surfacing. Water and sewer
services shall be laid to the property line.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewer facilities adequate to serve the
subdivision shall be installed in accordance with the latest plans and
specifications of the City Engineer and shall meet the requirements of the
master plan for sanitary sewer extensions of the city. All new construction
shall be connected to the city’s sanitary sewer system.
      (2)   Water supply. Water distribution facilities adequate to serve the
subdivision shall be installed in accordance with the latest plans and
specifications of the City Engineer and/or shall meet the requirements of the
master plan for water main extension of the city. All new construction shall be
connected to the city’s water system.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.54 DRAINAGE FACILITIES.
   Storm sewer and/or other surface drainage facilities shall be installed as
determined to be necessary by the City Engineer for the proper drainage of
surface waters.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.55 SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS.
   Driveways shall be constructed from the curb and gutter to the property line
or property side of the sidewalk. In cases where driveways are constructed
after curbing and sidewalks are in place, the sidewalk shall be reconstructed
in accordance with driveway specifications for the width of the driveway.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.56 TREE PLANTING; STREET TREES.
   (A)   In areas lacking trees as determined by the code enforcement officer,
street trees shall be planted not less than 40 feet apart, with a minimum of
one per lot. No trees shall be planted within 30 feet of the intersection of
curb lines on corner lots. The minimum size shall measure 1½ inches in diameter
at ground line.
   (B)   Only those varieties and locations approved by the city shall be used.
The trees shall be planted within a right-of-way.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.57 SPECIFICATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Unless otherwise stated, all the required improvements shall conform
to engineering standards and specifications as required by the City Council.
   (B)   The improvements shall be subject to inspection and approval by, and
shall be made in sequence as determined by the City Engineer.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.58 FINANCING.
   (A)   The developer shall be required to pay for all or a portion of the
above required improvements according to the following schedule.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers. Benefit rates will be based on the total cost of
constructing the sanitary sewer necessary to serve the development site
together with any area or district wide benefits of prior construction for
which the city may have paid. Any oversizing of sewers or depths greater than
that required to serve the site will be paid for by the city or shall be
assessed on an area basis.
      (2)   Water mains. Benefit rates will be based on the total cost of
constructing water mains to serve the development site. In the case of
residential developments, the benefit rate will be based on the total cost of
constructing an eight-inch water main including hydrant and gate valves
installation at normal spacing, with the city paying the cost of any pipe
oversizing necessary to serve additional areas beyond the proposed site.
      (3)   Storm drainage. Benefit rates will be based on the cost of
constructing storm sewers necessary to provide adequate drainage of the
development site. Where a larger watershed or drainage area can be defined and
when that area will benefit from the installation of the storm sewer, benefit
rates shall be determined for that defined area. The city shall be responsible
for oversize mains as determined by the Engineer.
      (4)   Streets. Streets shall be required and method of cost sharing shall
be established by City Council resolution.
      (5)   Sidewalks. Where required, sidewalks shall be paid by a method of
cost sharing which shall be established by City Council resolution.
   (B)   Prior to sale of lots, all special assessments against the lots shall
be paid in full by the subdivider/developer.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.59 REVIEW AND INSPECTION.
   The subdivider/developer shall pay for all costs incurred by the city for
subdivision review and inspection. This would include preparation and review of
plans and specifications by technical assistants and cost incurred by the City
Attorney, as well as other costs of similar nature.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.70 RESPONSIBLE OFFICIAL.
   It shall be the duty of the City Council to see that the provisions of this
chapter are properly enforced.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.71 BUILDING PERMIT.
   No building permit shall be issued by any governing official for the
construction of any buildings, structures or improvements on any land
henceforth subdivided until all requirements of this chapter have been fully
complied with.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
§ 152.72 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The minor subdivision process allows for the division of
certain property described by metes and bounds and is an abbreviated review
process in which there are fewer requirements than a normal subdivision. This
process is limited to specific situations as set forth in this section.
   (B)   Qualification. The following may be considered a minor subdivision
provided that the parcel of land has not been part of a minor subdivision
within the last five years. In the event circumstances warrant platting of the
following minor subdivisions, the city may require the subdivision to be
processed as a plat in accordance with §
152.15 (Concept/Sketch Plan), §
152.16 and §
152.17 (Preliminary Plat), and §
152.18 and §
152.19 (Final Plat) of this code.
      (1)   Division of land into not more than two lots fronting on an
existing street which conform to minimum city standards, including but not
limited to, minimum lot size, required buildable area, setbacks, and the like,
and does not:
         (a)   Require any new street;
         (b)   Require the creation of any public improvements;
         (c)   Adversely affect the remainder of the parcel or adjoining
property; and
         (d)   Conflict with any provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, Official Map, or any other city regulations, including this section.
      (2)   A one in forty lot split which does not meet the criteria in M.S. §
462.358, Subd. 4b. Newly created lots shall conform to the design and
performance standards of the Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances and shall be
recorded with the county. A deed restriction clarifying future development
rights is required on the newly created parcels. Stipulations regarding
municipal services may also be imposed.
   (C)   Filing and review of application. 
      (1)   Procedure.
         (a)   Application. Before any contract is made for the sale of any
part thereof, and before any permit for the erection of a structure on such
proposed subdivision shall be granted, the subdividing owner or authorized
agent shall file an application and secure approval of a minor subdivision.
         (b)   Placement on the Planning Commission agenda. The city must
receive an application form and 20 copies of the required information. Upon
receipt, the matter will be placed on the next Planning Commission meeting
which is at least 21 days after the date the application was received. The
Planning Commission Secretary shall submit copies of the application and
required information to other staff, committees, consultants, or agencies as
appropriate, who may make written comments to the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Incomplete application. The city shall have the authority to
request additional information. An application may not be heard by the Planning
Commission if incomplete. The Planning Commission Secretary will notify
applicant of missing information. Failure to provide the necessary supportive
information may be grounds for denial of the request.
         (d)   Transportation and Highway Department review. A minor
subdivision abutting any existing or proposed trunk highway, county road or
highway, or county state-aid highway shall be subject to review by the
Minnesota Department of Transportation and/or Wright County Highway Department.
Written notice and a copy of the proposed minor subdivision shall be filed with
the Minnesota Department of Transportation and/or Wright County Highway
Department for review and comment. Final action on a minor subdivision shall
not be taken until the required comments and recommendations have been received
or until the minimum 30 day review period has elapsed.
         (e)   Planning Commission meeting. The minor subdivision application
shall be submitted to the City Planning Commission for their review and
recommendation. The Planning Commission shall review and comment on the
subdivision's acceptability in relation to the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, Official Map, and this section. A recommendation may be made at that
time or the matter may be tabled to allow further time for review and
consideration.
         (f)   City Council meeting. The Planning Commission's recommendation
will be conveyed to the City Council. The City Council shall review and comment
on the subdivision's acceptability in relation to the Comprehensive Plan,
Zoning Ordinance, Official Map, and this section. Action may be taken at that
time or the matter may be tabled to allow further time for review and
consideration. Comments on the minor subdivision shall not be considered
binding in regard to subsequent plat review.
      (2)   Attendance at meetings mandatory. The applicant or a representative
is required to attend all meetings with advisory boards and the City Council.
Failure of the applicant or representative to attend a meeting may result in
the denial of the application.
   (D)   Information required for minor subdivision.
      (1)   Number of copies required at the time of application. The developer
shall submit one large scale copy and 20 reduced scale (11" x 17") copies of
the required information to City Hall.
      (2)   Required information. The following information shall be submitted
along with the application for minor subdivision:
         (a)   A Certificate of Survey prepared by a registered land surveyor
which includes:
            1.   Scale not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
            2.   North point indication;
            3.   Original and proposed lot boundaries;
            4.   Existing and resulting parcel legal descriptions;
            5.   The location of existing structures on the site;
            6.   Proposed driveway location;
            7.   Existing easement locations; and
            8.   Environmental constraints of the site;
         (b)   A soil test demonstrating the suitability for an on-site septic
system if public sewer is not immediately available;
         (c)   A title search showing any existing deed restrictions;
         (d)   Additional information as outlined in division (B) above if
deemed necessary and required by the city.
      (3)   Staking. The existing and proposed lot corners shall be staked at
the site in such a manner that they are visible from the road for review by the
city.
      (4)   Design standards. The minor subdivision shall conform to all design
standards as specified in §
152.35 of this code. The city may, at its sole discretion, waive some of the
requirements of the design standards.
   (E)   Approval or denial of minor subdivision.
      (1)   City Council action. The City Council shall act on the minor
subdivision by motion within 120 days from the date of application, unless the
applicant agrees to an extension. The motion shall include findings of fact
supporting the approval or denial, and shall be entered into the written record
of the proceedings of the City Council. A motion to approve that fails for the
lack of a simple majority shall be a denial of the requested application.
      (2)   Denial. The City Council may deny the subdivision if it makes any
of the following findings:
         (a)   That the proposed subdivision is in conflict with adopted
applicable general or specific provisions of the Comprehensive Plan, Zoning
Ordinance, Official Map or this section;
         (b)   That the physical characteristics of the site, including but not
limited to, topography, vegetation, percolation rate, soil conditions,
susceptibility to erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water
storage, and drainage and retention are such that the site is not suitable for
the type of development, design, or use contemplated;
         (c)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements
are likely to cause substantial environmental damage;
         (d)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements
are likely to cause serious public health problems;
         (e)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements
will conflict with easements of record or with easements established by
judgment of a court;
         (f)   That the design of the subdivision does not conform to minimum
city standards; or
         (g)   That the applicant has failed to provide all documents required
by the city in order to adequately evaluate the application.
   (F)   Deeds. Prior to certification by the city of the approval of the minor
subdivision, the applicant shall supply the deed(s) granting to the city the
easements and/or right of way required by the city.
   (G)   Park dedication fee. A park dedication fee as required in §
152.40 of this code shall be paid prior to recording the appropriate documents.
Minor subdivisions that include vacant lots under one acre in size will be
exempted from the park dedication fee.
   (H)   Recording.  
      (1)   Procedure and time frame.
         (a)   Deadline. The applicant shall record the appropriate documents
in the office of the Wright County Recorder within 60 days after the date of
approval. If not recorded within the 60 day period, the approval shall be
considered void.
         (b)   Copy to City Clerk. The applicant shall, immediately upon
receipt of the recorded document from the County Recorder, furnish the City
Clerk with a copy of the document(s) showing evidence of the recording.
         (c)   Building permit. No building permits shall be issued for
construction of any structure on any lot in the minor subdivision until the
city has received evidence of the document(s) being recorded by Wright County.
      (2)   Transportation Departments. When the land of the minor subdivision
abuts a state highway, county road, or county highway, a certificate or other
evidence showing submission of the minor subdivision to the Minnesota
Department of Transportation and/or the Wright County Highway Department shall
be filed with the office of the Wright County Recorder, with the minor
subdivision.
      (3)   Department of Natural Resources. When the land of the minor
subdivision is located within a Shoreland District or Floodplain District, the
Department of Natural Resources shall be notified as required by law.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 18-02Z, passed
- -2018)
§ 152.73 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS REVIEW.
   The City Council, following review by the Planning Commission, shall have
the power to vary from the requirements of this chapter in the event a planned
unit development as defined herein is proposed which would be served by a
municipal system or by some other central sewage disposal system approved by
the City Engineer, and which generally would create a more desirable living
environment than would be possible through the strict application of lot and
block requirements.
(Ord. 78-1, passed - -; Am. Ord. 00-02, passed 6-13-00)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Intent and purpose
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Application and interpretation
   
153.005   Rules and definitions
   
153.006   Establishment of districts
R-A, Agricultural Residence District
   
153.020   Intent
   
153.021   Permitted uses
   
153.022   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.023   Conditional uses
   
153.024   Interim uses
   
153.025   Lot area and width
   
153.026   Yards; minimum requirements
   
153.027   Height requirements
R-1, Residence District
   
153.040   Intent
   
153.041   Permitted uses
   
153.042   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.043   Conditional uses
   
153.044   Interim uses
   
153.045   Lot area and width
   
153.046   Yards; minimum requirements
   
153.047   Height requirements
B-1, General Business District
   
153.060   Intent
   
153.061   Permitted uses
   
153.062   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.063   Conditional uses
   
153.064   Interim uses
   
153.065   Lot, yard area and height requirements
B-2, Highway Business District
   
153.075   Intent
   
153.076   Permitted uses
   
153.077   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.078   Conditional uses
   
153.079   Interim uses
   
153.080   Lot area and width
   
153.081   Yards; minimum requirements
   
153.082   Height requirements
I-1, Industrial District
   
153.095   Intent
   
153.096   Permitted uses
   
153.097   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.098   Conditional uses
   
153.099   Interim uses
   
153.100   Lot area and width
   
153.101   Yards; minimum requirements
   
153.102   Height requirements
Shoreland Overlay District
   
153.115   Statutory authorization
   
153.116   Purpose and intent
   
153.117   Jurisdiction and compliance
   
153.118   Enforcement; administration
   
153.119   Interpretation
   
153.120   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
153.121   Definitions
   
153.122   Classification and land use districts
   
153.123   Dimensional requirements
   
153.124   Lots for controlled accesses
   
153.125   Placement and design of structures
   
153.126   Floodplain regulations
   
153.127   Water-oriented accessory structures
   
153.128   Stairways, lifts, landings and docks
   
153.129   Significant historic sites
   
153.130   Steep slopes
   
153.131   Height of structures
   
153.132   Shoreland alterations
   
153.133   Vegetation alterations
   
153.134   Topographic alterations; grading and filling
   
153.135   Wetland protection regulations
   
153.136   Roads, driveways and parking areas
   
153.137   Stormwater management
   
153.138   Commercial, industrial, public/semi-public, agricultural, forestry
and extractive uses
   
153.139   Conditional uses
Cluster Developments; Planned Unit Developments
   
153.150   Permitted types
   
153.151   Conditional use requirements
   
153.152   Application
   
153.153   Public utilities
   
153.154   Site evaluation; suitable area
   
153.155   Density evaluation
   
153.156   Maintenance and design criteria
   
153.157   Open space requirements
   
153.158   Erosion control; stormwater management
   
153.159   Centralization and design of facilities
   
153.160   Conversions
   
153.161   Existing structures
   
153.162   Nonconformities
General Standards
   
153.175   Intent
   
153.176   Parking and loading
   
153.177   Required off-street parking
   
153.178   Parking lot standard
   
153.179   Required loading berths
   
153.180   Accessory buildings
   
153.181   Fencing, screening and landscaping
   
153.182   Unplatted property
   
153.183   Dwelling unit restrictions
   
153.184   Performance standards
   
153.185   Height and yard exceptions
   
153.186   Setback measurements
   
153.187   Monuments
   
153.188   Nonconforming uses
   
153.189   Antennas and towers
   
153.190   Wind energy systems (WES)
Sign Regulations
   
153.200   Conformance
   
153.201   General sign regulations
   
153.202   Special and temporary signs
   
153.203   Advertising signs and billboards
   
153.204   Business signs
   
153.205   Licenses and permit fees
   
153.206   Signs in a state general election year
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.215   Enforcement; violations
   
153.216   Building permits
   
153.217   Certificates of occupancy
   
153.218   Amendments; rezoning
   
153.219   Board of Adjustment
   
153.220   Variances and appeals
   
153.221   Conditional use permits
   
153.222   Interim use permits
B-3, Business District—Adjacent to Railroad
   
153.235   Intent
   
153.236   Permitted uses
   
153.237   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.238   Conditional uses
   
153.239   Interim uses
   
153.240   Lot area and depth/width requirements
   
153.241   Yards, front, side, rear and setbacks (minimum required)
   
153.242   Height regulations
   
153.243   Parking lot standards
Landscaping Regulations
   
153.255   Title
   
153.256   Intent
   
153.257   General provisions
   
153.258   Design standards
   
153.259   Slopes and walls
   
153.260   Buffers
   
153.261   Street trees
   
153.262   Parking lots
   
153.263   Open space
   
153.264   Maintenance
RB-1, Residential Business District
   
153.285   Purpose
   
153.286   Uses
   
153.287   Performance standards
R-2, Residence District
   
153.300   Intent
   
153.301   Permitted uses
   
153.302   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.303   Conditional uses
   
153.304   Interim uses
   
153.305   Lot area and width
   
153.306   Yards; minimum requirements
   
153.307   Height requirements
R-3, Residence District
   
153.320   Intent
   
153.321   Permitted uses   
   
153.322   Permitted accessory uses
   
153.323   Conditional uses
   
153.324   Interim uses
   
153.325   Lot area and width
   
153.326   Yards; minimum requirements
   
153.327   Height requirements
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   (A)   This chapter establishes regulations for the creation of zones for the
purpose of management of land use and for requiring permits for uses therein.
This chapter defines certain rules and defines terms used, outlines
administrative procedures and makes provision for violation of this chapter.
This chapter identifies districts and allowable uses; provides for accessory
and conditional uses; lot, yard, area and height requirements. It replaces
existing ordinances or parts of ordinances inconsistent herewith.
   (B)   This chapter shall be known as the “Zoning Chapter” and will be
referred to as “this chapter.”
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.002 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the state in M.S. §§ 462.351 to
462.365, as they may be amended from time to time, the city hereby exercises
certain powers granted to municipalities for the purpose of:
   (A)   Promoting and protecting the public health, safety and general welfare
of the inhabitants of the city;
   (B)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, commercial,
industrial, recreational and public areas;
   (C)   Securing the most appropriate use of the land;
   (D)   Preventing the overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of the
population causing social and economic impacts upon the city;
   (E)   Protecting and conserving the natural and scenic beauty and
attractiveness of the community; and
   (F)   Implementing the adopted plans and policies of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall apply to all areas within the
incorporated boundaries of the city, all areas where the city exercises
“extraterritorial jurisdiction” and shall include those areas specifically
designated for orderly annexation unless otherwise specified in the agreements.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.004 APPLICATION AND INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any law,
ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the regulations which
are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall
prevail.
   (B)   No structure shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
altered without first obtaining a building permit, and no structure or land
shall be used for any purposes nor in any manner which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Except as herein provided, no building, structure or premises shall
hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be granted that does
not conform to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.005 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, words used in the singular number
includes the plural, and the plural the singular; the present tense includes
the past and future tenses and the future the present; the word “shall” is
mandatory, the word “may” is permissive; all measured distances shall be to the
nearest integral foot; whenever a word or term defined hereinafter appears in
the text of this chapter its meaning shall be construed as set forth in the
definition thereof.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESS DRIVE or DRIVEWAY. Ingress/egress for the purpose of access from a
public street or county road to private property.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or structure on the same lot
or part of the main building, occupies by or devoted exclusively to an
accessory use.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use naturally and normally incidental to, subordinate to
and auxiliary to the principal permitted use of the premises.
      ALLEY. A public right-of-way usually 20 feet or less in width which
normally affords a secondary means of vehicular access to abutting property.
      ANTENNA. A device used to transmit or receive electronic signals through
the air to or from other land based or space based devices directly or
indirectly related to wireless communications, cellular communications,
internet communications, radio communications, voice communications, video
communications, data communications, and other similar signals.
      ANTENNA TOWER AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.  Accessory structures used to
enclose transmission, power, or other equipment which are used in connection
with antennas and towers, which are located on the ground near the antennas or
towers, and which comply with all standards applicable to antennas and towers.
      AUTOMOBILE WRECKING or JUNKYARD.
         (a)   A place maintained for keeping, storing or piling in commercial
quantities, whether temporarily, irregularly or continually; buying or selling
at retail or wholesale any old, used or second- hand material of any kind,
including used motor vehicles, machinery and/or parts thereof, cloth, rugs,
clothing, paper, rubbish, bottles, rubber, iron or other metals or articles
which from its worn condition render it practically useless for the purpose for
which it was made and which is commonly classed as junk.
         (b)   This shall include a lot or yard for the keeping of unlicensed
motor vehicles or the remains thereof for the purpose of dismantling, sale of
parts, sale as scrap, storage or abandonment. This shall not prohibit the
keeping of one unlicensed motor vehicle within a garage or other structure in
residential districts or two unlicensed motor vehicles not including farm
implements within a farm in the agricultural district.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a floor of a building which is wholly or
partially, up to 50%, underground or below grade.
      BOARDING OR ROOMING HOUSE. Any dwelling occupied in any manner that
certain rooms in excess of those used by members of the immediate family and
occupied as a home or family unit are leased or rented to persons outside of
the family, without any attempt to provide therein cooking or kitchen
accommodations, providing that accommodations are not provided for more than
ten persons.
      BUILDABLE AREA. The part of the lot remaining after required yards have
been provided.
      BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof,
and used or built for the sheltered or enclosure of any person, animal or
chattel or property of any kind, when any portion thereof is completely
separated from every other part thereof by division walls from the ground up
and without openings, each portion of the BUILDING shall be deemed as a
separate BUILDING.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the average ground
level adjoining the building to the highest point of the roof surface if a flat
roof, to the deck line of mansard roofs and to the main height level between
eaves and ridge of gable, hip and gambrel roofs.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building or structure in which is conducted the
main or principal use of the lot on which the building or structure is
situated.
      BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The front line of the building or the legally
established line which determines the location of the building with respect to
the right-of-way line.
      BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
      CARPORT. A structure permanently attached to a dwelling having one or
more sides open.
      CLEAR CUTTING. The removal of an entire stand of trees.
      CLINIC. A public or proprietary institution providing diagnostic,
therapeutic or preventive treatment of ambulatory patients by a group of
doctors acting in concert and in the same building for the purposes aforesaid.
      COMMUNITY WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS. Utilities systems serving a group of
buildings, lots or any area of the community, with the design and construction
of the utility systems as approved by the community and the state.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN or POLICIES PLAN. A compilation of goals, policy
statements, standards, programs and maps for guiding the physical, social and
economic development, both public and private, of the city and its environs, as
defined in the planning and zoning book, and includes any unit or part of the
plan separately adopted and any amendment to the plan or parts thereof.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use which, because of unique characteristics, cannot
be classified as a permitted use in any particular district.
      DISTRICT ZONING. Any section of the unincorporated area of the city
within certain uniform regulations and requirements or various combinations
thereof apply under the provisions of this chapter.
      DOG KENNEL. Any premise where more than two dogs over six month of age
are kept.
      DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to the
customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or
where fast service to the automobile occupants is a service offered regardless
of whether service is also provided within a building.
      DUPLEX. A detached residential building containing two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a single family, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses or tourist homes.
         (a)   ATTACHED DWELLING. A dwelling which is joined to another
dwelling at one or more sides by a party wall or wails.
         (b)   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building used or intended to be used as a
dwelling by three or more families, where each dwelling unit is divided by a
parts wall extending the full height of the ceiling. Each unit is capable of
individual use and maintenance without trespassing upon adjoining properties
and utilities and service facilities are independently serviceable.
         (c)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling occupied by only one family,
and so designed and arranged as to provide cooking and kitchen accommodations
and sanitary facilities for one family only.
         (d)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling so designed and arranged to
provide cooking and kitchen accommodations and sanitary facilities for
occupancy by two families.
      EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to a person or persons or to the
general public for a specific use of the land.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Those overhead or underground electric, gas,
communication, hydrocarbon, steam, water or waste water transmission or
distribution systems and structures necessary to service those systems; roads
as defined elsewhere in this section; other utilities necessary to maintain the
public health, safety or general welfare, including towers, poles, wires,
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call
boxes and accessories in connection therewith, but not including public
buildings.
      EXTERIOR STORAGE or OPEN STORAGE. The storage of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building.
      FAMILY. Any number of persons living together in a room or rooms
comprising a single housekeeping unit and related by blood, marriage, adoption
or any unrelated person who resides therein as though a member of the family
including the domestic employees thereof. Any group of persons not so related
by inhabiting a single house shall, for the purpose of this chapter, be
considered to constitute one FAMILY for each five persons, exclusive or
domestic employees, contained in each group.
      FARM, GENERAL.
         (a)   A farm on which crops and/or livestock are grown or fed for the
purpose of preparing livestock or products thereof, for sale, crops are sold or
fed to livestock.
         (b)   A GENERAL FARM shall be engaged in two or more aspects of the
growing and/or raising of crops and/or livestock and shall not be considered to
be an intensive livestock farm, and shall be ten acres in size.
      FARM, INTENSIVE.
         (a)   A farm on which the major source of revenue of the farm comes
from the raising and selling of livestock or livestock products subject to the
conditions stated herein. Any of the following items may be considered as
sufficient reason for classification as an intensive livestock farm by the City
Council:
            1.   Near complete concentration in one aspect of livestock
raising, with any other use accessory to the principal use;
            2.   The use of force feeding or confinement raising of livestock;
and
            3.   Feed to operation.
         (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, intensive livestock farming
operations of the industrial type mentioned above, shall include the raising of
the following types of livestock subject to the conditions stated above,
cattle, swine, poultry or any other type of livestock.
      FARMSTEAD. Property on which structures and a farm dwelling are located
for management, storage and general farm operation.
      FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing
marker, barrier or enclosure and located along the boundary, or along the
required yard.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining flood plain which are reasonable required
to carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      FLOOR AREA, GROUND. The area within the exterior walls of the main
building or structure as measured from the outside walls at the ground level,
not including garages or enclosed or unenclosed porches and not including
garages or accessory rooms having three or more exterior sides.
      FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross
floor area of a building or buildings by the net area of the lot or parcel of
land on which the building or buildings are located.
      FLOOR PLAN. A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization of
the floor area within a building or structure but not necessarily as detailed
as construction plans.
      FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street.
      GARAGE.
         (a)   PRIVATE GARAGE. A garage with a capacity of not more than four
power-driven vehicles for storage only, and which is erected as an accessory to
a dwelling. Space to store up to two passenger vehicles may be rented to
nonresidents.
         (b)   PUBLIC GARAGE. Any premises, except those described as a private
garage, used for the storage or care of power driven vehicles or where any
vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or
sale.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. A building or structure designed or used for
the retail sale or supply of fuels, lubricants, air, water and other operating
commodities for motor vehicles, and including the customary space and
facilities for the installation of the commodities on or in the vehicles, but
not including special facilities for the painting, major repair or similar
servicing thereof.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation of a service character not involving over
the counter sales which is clearly secondary to the main use of the premises as
a dwelling and does not change the character thereof or have any exterior
evidence of the secondary use, other than permitted signs. This occupation
shall be carried on or conducted only by members of a family residing in the
dwelling and in connection with which there is kept no stock in trade or
commodity for sale upon the premises. HOME OCCUPATION shall not involve the
need for more than three parking spaces for the occupant and visitors.
      LANDSCAPING. Plantings including trees, shrubs and grass.
      LICENSED ENGINEER.  An engineer who is licensed by the Minnesota Board of
Architecture, Engineering, Land Surveying, Landscape Architecture and Interior
Design.
      LOT. A parcel or plot of land intended for building development or as a
unit for transfer of ownership or reserved area as an outlot.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets,
the interior angle of the intersection not exceeding 135°.
         (b)   THROUGH LOT. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines
abutting two substantially paralleled streets, and which is not a corner lot.
On a THROUGH LOT, both street lines shall be front lot lines for applying this
chapter.
      LOT AREA. The area of a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
      LOT COVERAGE. The part of percentage of the lot occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory building structures.
      LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot except that where any portion
of a lot extends into the public right-of-way shall be the lot line for
applying this chapter.
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or
dedicated public street, and in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the
shortest dimension on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are
equal, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the owner and filed with the
County Recorder.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front
lot line. If the rear line is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms
a point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length
within the lot, parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot
line or a rear lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly
approved and filed, or one unit of an auditor’s subdivision or a registered
land survey that has been recorded in the Office of  the County Recorder prior
to the effective date of this chapter. LOT OF RECORD shall also include parcels
of land for which a deed or contract for deed has been recorded in the office
of the County Recorder prior to August 2, 1978, provided that the parcel or
parcels were legally created in accord with ordinances in effect at the time
the deed or contract was recorded.
      LOT SUBSTANDARD. A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been
recorded in the office of the County Recorder upon or prior to the effective
date of this chapter which does not meet the minimum lot area, structure
setbacks or other dimensional standards of this chapter.
      LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of
a lot measured within the first 30 feet of the lot depth. The LOT WIDTH shall
determine the required road frontage and shoreline frontage for lots.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure manufactured in accord with the
Manufactured Home Building Code, as defined in M.S. § 327.31(6), as it may be
amended from time to time. For the purpose of this chapter, MANUFACTURED HOMES
which comply with the standards listed in
§ 153.042 shall be considered to be single-family dwellings.
      MOBILE HOME. Any manufactured home, as defined above, which does not meet
the standards in §
153.042. MOBILE HOMES to be used for residential purposes must have a minimum
floor area of 800 square feet on the main floor. Structures which do not meet
these minimum standards shall not be permitted for residential purposes, except
when located within legally established mobile home parks.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which any
occupied mobile home is harbored, either free of charge or revenue purposes,
and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or enclosure used or
intended for use as part of the equipment of the MOBILE HOME PARK. However,
this shall not preclude the placement of mobile homes outside an authorized
MOBILE HOME PARK if specifically allowed in this chapter.
      MOTEL or TOURIST COURT. A building or group of detached, semi-detached or
attached buildings containing guest rooms or dwellings, with garage or parking
space conveniently located, and which is designed, used or intended to be used
primarily for accommodation of automobile transients.
      MULTIPLE RESIDENCE or APARTMENT BUILDING. Three or more dwelling units in
one structure.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A building, structure or use
which does not conform with the district regulation in which it is situated.
      NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants, and shrubs and which may be conducted within a building or
without, for the purpose of landscape construction.
      NURSING HOME. A building with facilities for the care of children, the
aged, infirm or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder. The NURSING
HOME shall be licensed by the State Board of Health, as provided for in M.S. §
144.50 as it may be amended from time to time.
      OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the City Council, in accordance with
state statutes, showing streets, highways, parks and drainage, both existing
and proposed.
      OFF-STREET LOADING SPACE. A space accessible from a street, alley or
driveway for the use of trucks or other vehicles while loading or unloading
merchandise or materials. The space shall be of size as to accommodate one
vehicle of the type used in the particular business.
      OPEN SALES LOT or EXTERIOR STORAGE. Any land used or occupied for the
purpose of buying and selling any goods, materials or merchandise and for the
storing of same under the open sky prior to sale.
      OPEN SPACE USE. A use oriented to and utilizing the outdoor, unimproved,
natural character of an area, including trails, primitive campsites, waysides,
parks and general recreation uses.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level
which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence
upon the landscape. The ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where
the natural vegetation changes from predominately aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. In areas where the ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK is not evident,
setbacks shall be measured from the stream bank of the following water bodies
that have permanent flow or open water: the main channel, adjoining side
channels, backwaters and sloughs.
      PARKING SPACE.
         (a)   PRIVATE PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently
maintained area on privately-owned property either within or outside of a
building of sufficient size to store one standard automobile.
         (b)   PUBLIC PARKING SPACE. An area sufficient in size to store one
standard automobile, which has adequate access to a public street or alley.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across or within a
block, to be used by pedestrians.
      PERMITTED USE. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements and
performance standards (if any) of the district.
      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization or other group acting as a unit. It also includes any executor,
administrator, trustee, receiver or other  representative appointed by law.
Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section prescribing a penalty or fine,
it shall include the partners or members of any corporation, who are
responsible for the violation.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An urban development having two or more
principal uses or structures on a single lot and developed according to an
approved plan. Where appropriate, this development control advocates:
         (a)   A mixture of land uses, one or more of the nonresidential land
uses being regional in nature;
         (b)   The clustering of residential land uses providing common and
public open space, the former to be maintained either by the residents of the
development or the local community; and
         (c)   Increased administrative discretion to a local professional
planning staff and the setting aside of present land use regulations and rigid
plat approval processes.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
      PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. One which determines the predominant use as
contrasted to accessory use or structure. Only one principal structure or use
shall be permitted per lot, except as expressly permitted elsewhere in this
chapter.
      PROPER LINE. The legal boundaries of a parcel of property which may also
coincide with a right-of-way line of a road, cartway and the like.
      PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A contract in readable form entered into between
private parties which constitutes a restriction of the use of a particular
parcel of property.
      PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by municipal, school district,
county, state or other governmental units.
      RECREATION.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR RECREATION. Commercial recreation which
requires large land areas or location in a rural setting such as golf courses,
driving ranges, flea markets, shooting ranges and the like, but not to include
campgrounds nor recreational vehicle camps.
         (b)   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Includes all uses such as bowling alleys,
driving ranges, and movies theaters that are privately owned and operated with
the intention of earning a profit by providing entertainment for the public.
         (c)   PUBLIC RECREATION. Includes all uses such as tennis courts, ball
fields, picnic areas and the like that are commonly provided for the public at
parks, playgrounds, community centers and other sites, owned and operated by a
unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation.
      RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Play apparatus such as swing sets and slides,
sandboxes, poles for nets, unoccupied boats and trailers not exceeding 20 feet
in length, picnic tables, lawn chairs, barbecue stands and similar equipment or
structures but not including tree houses, swimming pools or sheds utilized for
storage of equipment.
      SET BACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street
or right-of-way line.
      SHORELAND. The land located within the following distances from public
waters 1,000 feet from the normal highwater mark of a lake, pond or flowage.
The practical limits of SHORELANDS may be less than the statutory limits
wherever the waters involved are bounded by natural topographic divides which
extend landward from the waters for lesser distances.
      SIGN.
         (a)   ADVERTISING SIGN or BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to
a business, commodity, service, activity or entertainment not necessarily
conducted, sold or offered upon the premises where the sign is located.
         (b)   BUSINESS SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business or
profession or to a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where the sign is located.
      STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any
floor and the surface of the floor next above it, or the space between the
floor and the ceiling next above it. A basement shall be considered a STORY if
its ceiling is over five feet above the average established grade.
      STRUCTURE. Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner.
      TOWER. Any pole, spire, or lattice structure, or combination thereof, to
which an antenna is attached, or which is designed for an antenna to be
attached, and all supporting materials.
      TOWNHOUSE. Single-family attached units in structures housing three or
more dwelling units contiguous to each other, only by the share of one common
wall and each dwelling unit shall have separate and individual front and rear
entrances.
      USE. The purpose for which land or building thereon are designed,
arranged or intended to be occupied or used, or for which they are occupied or
maintained.
      VARIANCE. The waiving of specific literal provisions of this chapter in
instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration.
      YARD. An open space on the lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed from
its lowest level to the sky. A YARD extends along a lot line at right angles to
the lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations for the
zoning district in which the lot is located.
         (a)   FRONT YARD. A yard extending across the front of the lot between
the side lot lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
         (b)   REAR YARD. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and
lying between the nearest line of the building.
         (c)   SIDE YARD. A yard between the side line of the lot and the
nearest line of the building and extending from the front line of the lot to
the rear.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 2-12-02)
§ 153.006 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following district classifications are hereby established within
the jurisdiction of this chapter:
      (1)   R-A, agricultural residence district;
      (2)   R-1, residence district;
      (3)   B-1, general business district;
      (4)   B-2, highway business district;
      (5)   I-1, industrial district; and
      (6)   S-1, shoreland district.
   (B)   (1)   The boundaries of the districts enumerated in this section are
hereby established and adopted as shown upon the map on file with the City
Clerk/Treasurer and designated the “official zoning map of the city,” and dated
November, 1992, as may be amended, and bearing the signature of the Mayor and
City Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   The map is hereby made a part of this chapter as if the same were
fully set forth herein.
   (C)   The boundaries of districts are the center lines of streets; the
center lines of alleys, the rear lot lines where there are not alleys and the
side lines of recorded lots, designated distances where land is unplatted or
section lines.
   (D)   (1)   Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically
permitted nor denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such case the
Council, the Planning Commission or a property owner may request a study by the
city to determine if the use is acceptable and if so what zoning district would
be most appropriate and the determination as to conditions and standards
relating to development of the use.
      (2)   The Council and/or Planning Commission upon receipt of the staff
study may, if appropriate, initiate an amendment of this chapter to provide for
particular use under consideration or may find that the use is not compatible
for development within the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
R-A, AGRICULTURAL RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 153.020 INTENT.
   To establish and preserve areas within the city for the continuation of
viable agricultural operations; to preserve areas unsuitable for use other than
agriculture; and to provide for very low density residential development for
those persons desiring a rural lifestyle. To preserve areas which due to
natural features and limited roads and proximity to available services are best
suited to limited development as determined by the policies of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.021 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-A district.
   (A)   General farming, as defined by this chapter;
   (B)   Single- and two-family residences, as defined, provided they meet the
requirements of this chapter;
   (C)   Stock raising not including fur bearing animals, kennels or feed lots;
   (D)   Roadside stands for sale of excess garden produce provided they meet
the requirements of this chapter;
   (E)   Public parks, recreational areas and game refuges;
   (F)   Nurseries and tree farms; and
   (G)   Essential services, as defined.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.022 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in the R-A district.
   (A)   Operation and storage of vehicles, machinery and equipment which is
incidental to permitted or conditional uses allowed in this district;
   (B)   Boarding or renting rooms to not more than two persons;
   (C)   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
   (D)   Home occupations, as defined;
   (E)   Signs, as regulated in this chapter; and
   (F)   Not more than one mobile home for use connected with the operation of
the farm.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.023 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses require a conditional use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures;
   (B)   Commercial outdoor recreational area including golf courses, club
houses, swimming pools and other similar facilities;
   (C)   Churches, schools and similar uses; and
   (D)   Residential planned unit developments (PUDs).
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord.
05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.024 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Gravel extraction;
   (B)   Intensive farming, as defined by this chapter, and feedlots, provided
the farming activity is located at least 1,000 feet from non-farm residential
uses, developed property of any class or lands planned for other development;
   (C)   Packaging of agricultural products; and
   (D)   Kennels, animal hospitals, stables and the like, provided they are
adequately separated uses.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.025 LOT AREA AND WIDTH..
   (A)   The minimum area for a single-family dwelling shall be 20,000 square
feet.
   (B)   The minimum lot width shall be 75 feet at the public right-of-way
line.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.026 YARDS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard building setbacks shall be 40 feet from the public right-
of-way of all federal and state highways.
   (B)   Front yard building setbacks shall be 30 feet from the public right-
of-way line of all county roads and city streets.
   (C)   Corner lots shall require front yard setbacks on all sides along a
public street.
   (D)   There shall be a side yard of 15 feet.
   (E)   There shall be a rear yard of 15 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§153.027 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any residential building, hereafter erected or altered, shall not
exceed 35 feet in height.
   (B)   Agricultural and essential service structures shall be exempt from
this requirement.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
R-1, RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 153.040 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for the orderly development of
suburban residential areas close to existing municipalities and to avoid urban
sprawl within the city; permit the development of single- and two-family
dwelling; to provide reasonable standards for the development; to avoid
overcrowding; and to prohibit the use of land which would be incompatible with
or detrimental to the essential residential character of the districts.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.041 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-1 district.
   (A)   Single- and two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Essential services;
   (D)   Agriculture other than the raising and keeping of animals as defined
in §
92.20 and the regulations as set forth as amended regarding animals (§
92.20 et seq.);
   (E)   Uses which are determined by the Council to be of a similar nature;
and
   (F)   All single-family dwellings, including manufactured homes and site-
built homes, shall comply with the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Building shall be anchored to a permanent concrete or treated wood
foundation, in accord with UBC standards.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum floor area of 800 square feet.
      (3)   The minimum width of the structure shall be 24 feet, as measured
across the narrowest portion. Width measurements shall not take into account
overhangs nor other projections beyond principal walls.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum 3:12 roof pitch with a minimum 12-inch
soffit. Alternative roof styles may be approved by the Building Inspector based
on generally accepted construction practices, building codes and the nature of
the surrounding neighborhood. Unadorned flat roofs shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Only new units shall be permitted. The relocation of previously
occupied units shall require a conditional use permit.
   (G)   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subdivision 9, the
city opts-out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and
regulates temporary family health care dwellings.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-02Z, passed 12-14-04; Am.
Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 16-01Z, passed 8-10-16)
Cross-reference:
   Standards for the Keeping of Animals, see §§
92.20 et seq.
§ 153.042 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in the R-1 district.
   (A)   Private garages, parking spaces and carports for passenger cars,
trucks, recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (B)   Home occupation, as defined;
   (C)   Tool houses and similar buildings for storage of domestic equipment
and noncommercial recreational equipment;
   (D)   Swimming pools and tennis courts; and
   (E)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two persons.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.043 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall require a conditional use permit based on the
procedures set forth herein.
   (A)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   Public or semipublic recreational buildings, community centers and
day-care centers;
   (C)   Nurseries, not including greenhouses, truck gardens, displays, sales
of agricultural products;
   (D)   Nursing homes, rest homes and homes for the aged provided that
adequate parking is provided and the site is accessible to commercial service
areas; and
   (E)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined: three or more family dwellings.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.044 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Nurseries, not including greenhouses, truck gardens, displays, sales
of agricultural products; and
   (B)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined: two or less family dwellings.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.045 LOT AREA AND WIDTH
   (A)   The minimum area for single-family homes shall be 9,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum area for two-family homes shall be 15,000 square feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot width at the public right-of-way line shall be 75
feet.
   (D)   Multiple-family dwellings shall have an area of 18,000 square feet for
a three-plex, plus 1,500 square feet for each additional unit.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.046 YARDS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard setbacks shall be 40 feet from the right-of-way line of
federal and state highways.
   (B)   Front yard building setbacks shall be 30 feet from all other public
rights-of-way, including county roads and city streets.
   (C)   Corner lots shall require front yard setbacks on all sides along a
public street.
   (D)   Side yard setbacks shall be ten feet.
   (E)   Rear yard setbacks shall be 30 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.047 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   No residential building hereafter erected or altered shall exceed 35 feet in
height.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
B-1, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.060 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for the establishment of
commercial and service activities which draw from and serve customers from the
entire community or region and to provide for shopping- center type
developments where one use is located within a building.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.061 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the B-1 district.
   (A)   Business services including banks, offices and postal stations;
   (B)   Clothing services including dry cleaning and laundry establishments,
laundromats, dressmaking, millinery and tailor shops, shoe repair shops;
   (C)   Equipment services including radio and television shops, electrical
appliance shops, show room of a plumber, decorator or similar trade;
   (D)   Food services including grocery stores, fruit, vegetable and meat
markets, super markets, restaurants, delicatessens, candy shops and bakeries
whose products are sold only at retail on the premises;
   (E)   Personal services including drug stores, hardware stores,
haberdashers, stationery and book stores, news shops, apparel shops, show room
for articles to be sold at retail, flower shops, commercial greenhouses and
laundromats;
   (F)   Personal services including barber and beauty shops, reducing salons,
photographic shops and funeral homes;
   (G)   Public transportation terminals, public utility buildings and
transformer stations without storage yards;
   (H)   Buildings used for research and testing laboratories;
   (I)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures;
   (J)   Recreational services including theaters, bowling lanes, clubs and
lodges;
   (K)   Hotels, motels, taverns, private clubs and lodges; and
   (L)   Clinics and other buildings for treatment of human beings.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05; Am.
Ord. 18-01Z, passed 4-10-18)
§ 153.062 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Commercial or business buildings for a use accessory to the principal use
are permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.063 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall require a conditional use permit based on the
procedures set forth herein.
   (A)   Automobile service stations including sales, gasoline service stations
and auto repair garages, provided that no filling station, public garage or
gasoline distributing station shall be located within 200 feet of a school,
church, hospital or meeting place having a seating capacity of more than 100
persons; and
   (B)   Mixed residential-commercial development accompanied by a storefront
business provided that there is sufficient parking for the use and all adjacent
uses and the Council determines that there is no conflict between uses.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05; Am.
Ord. 20-01Z, passed 7-14-20)
§ 153.064 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   Temporary open outdoor sales, service or rental as an accessory use provided
the area is fenced or screened from abutting properties, sales areas are
surfaced to control dust.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.065 LOT, YARD AREA AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   For uses allowed in the B-1 district there will be no requirements for
lot areas, frontage, lot coverage and yard sizes except:
      (1)   No building shall be located within 20 feet of any side lot line
abutting any residence.
      (2)   No building shall be located within 20 feet of any rear lot line
abutting any residence district.
   (B)   Building height shall not exceed 45 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
Penalty, see § 153.999
B-2, HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.075 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for and limit the establishment
of automobile-oriented or dependent commercial and service activities.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.076 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the B-2 district.
   (A)   All permitted uses as allowed in the B-1 district;
   (B)   Automobile sales and services;
   (C)   Commercial recreational services;
   (D)   Farm implement sales and services;
   (E)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
   (F)   Tourist-oriented retail stores; and
   (G)   Residences when occupied in connection with the commercial use.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.077 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in the B-2 district.
   (A)   All permitted accessory uses in the B-1 district;
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading facilities including semi-trailers; and
   (C)   The sale of gasoline shall be a permitted accessory use.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.078 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall require a conditional use permit based on the
procedures set forth herein.
   All conditional uses allowed in the B-1 district;
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.079 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Open air display areas for the sale of nursery stock or manufactured
products such as garden furniture or hardware items; and
   (B)   Rental of manufactured products or equipment including mobile home
sale lots.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.080 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Lot area in square feet shall be as necessary, provided lot coverage
does not exceed 50%.
   (B)   Lot width shall not be less than 80 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.081 YARDS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard setbacks shall be the same as the R-1 district.
   (B)   Side yard setbacks shall be the same as the R-1 district.
   (C)   Rear yard setbacks shall be not less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Where adjacent structures within the same block have front yard
setbacks different from those required, the front yard minimum setback shall be
the average of the adjacent structures. If there is only one adjacent
structure, the setback shall be the average of the adjacent structures. If
there is only one adjacent structure, the setback shall be the average of the
required setback and the setback of the adjacent structure.
   (E)   On corner lots, the side yard on the street side shall be the same as
the front yard on the reverse interior lots on that street provided this does
not reduce the buildable width to less than 30 feet.
   (F)   Parking lots shall be setback ten feet from all public streets and
five feet along all other sides except ten feet from a residential district
with a parking screen required.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.082 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Commercial structures hereafter erected in this district shall not
exceed 45 feet in height.
   (B)   Essential service structures shall be as necessary.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
I-1, INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 153.095 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for and allow a wide range of
industrial warehousing and bulk commercial activities. The development shall
meet all applicable provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.096 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the I-1 district.
   (A)   Any branch of trade or industry employing labor and capital;
activities not allowed in commercial districts; activities which do not require
steam, diesel or gasoline engines as a prime mover;
   (B)   Wholesale business and warehousing;
   (C)   Machine shops and public and private garages;
   (D)   Public utility and service buildings and gas regulator stations; and
   (E)   Residences when on the same parcel as the principal use and occupied
by an individual employed by the principal use.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05; Am.
Ord. 15-01Z, passed 8-11-15)
§ 153.097 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses are permitted in the I-1 district.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading;
   (B)   Open and outdoor storage;
   (C)   Offices accessory to a principal use;
   (D)   Antennas, towers, and antenna and tower accessory structures.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 02-12, passed 2-12-02; Am. Ord.
05-01Z, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 15-01Z, passed 8-11-15)
§ 153.098 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall require a conditional use permit based on the
procedures set forth herein.
   Industrial planned unit developments regulated herein.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.099 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Contractors equipment and storage yards;
   (B)   Processing, cold storage plants, fertilizer plants, subject to PCA;
and
   (C)   Community solar gardens.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05; Am. Ord. 15-01Z, passed 8-11-15)
§ 153.100 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   Lot area in square feet shall be as necessary provided the maximum lot
coverage does not exceed 50%.
   (B)   Lot width shall not be less than 100 feet.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.101 YARDS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard setbacks shall be the same as the R-1 district.
   (B)   Side yard setbacks shall be the same as the R-1 district.
   (C)   Rear yard setbacks shall not be less than 20 feet.
   (D)   Where a property abuts a railroad siding, no side or rear yard shall
be required when a railroad loading facility is to be installed.
   (E)   Where this district abuts a residential district a 40-foot buffer,
which is landscaped, shall be required.
   (F)   Parking lots shall be setback a minimum of ten feet from all public
streets and five feet along all other sides except ten feet from a residential
district with a parking screen required.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.102 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   No structure hereafter erected in this district shall exceed 45 feet in
height.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 153.115 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization contained in M.S.
Ch. 103F, Minn. Rules Parts 6120.2500 through 6120.3900, and the planning and
zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Ch. 462, as they may be amended from time
to time.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.116 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The uncontrolled use of shorelands in the city affects public health, safety
and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of public waters, but
also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best interests of
public health, safety and welfare to provide for the wise use and development
of shorelands of public waters. The Legislature of Minnesota has delegated
responsibility to local governments of the state to regulate the subdivision
use and development of shorelands of public waters to preserve and enhance the
quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and natural environmental
values of shorelands, and provide for wise use of waters and related land
resources. This responsibility is hereby recognized by the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.117 JURISDICTION AND COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the shorelands of the
public water bodies as classified herein.
   (B)   The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and shape of lots;
the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the installation and
maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems; the grading and
filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation; and the
subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this chapter
and other applicable regulations, including the provisions of the base zoning
districts.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.118 ENFORCEMENT; ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council or their duly appointed representative shall be
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
      (2)   Any violation of the provisions of this subchapter or failure to
comply with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and
safeguards established in connection with building permits, shoreland
alteration permits, grants of variances or conditional uses) shall constitute a
misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law. Violations of this
subchapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a
regulated activity pursuant to division (B)(1) below. Each day that a violation
of the provisions of this subchapter exists, shall constitute a separate
misdemeanor.
   (B)   (1)   Permits required.
         (a)   A permit is required for the construction of buildings or
building additions (and including the related activities as construction of
fences higher than six feet, decks and signs), and those grading and filling
activities not exempted herein. Application for a permit shall be made to the
city on the forms provided. The application shall include the necessary
information so that the city can determine the site’s suitability for the
intended use and that city sanitary sewer will be provided should any building
permits or conditional use permits be issued.
         (b)   Any permit that is issued as described in division (B)(1)(a)
above shall stipulate that any building or use generating sewage shall be
connected to the city sewer system as further required herein.
      (2)   Certificate of zoning compliance. A certificate of zoning
compliance, issued by the Clerk/ Treasurer or other staff person as designated
by the Council, shall be required as specified in division (B)(1) above. This
certificate will specify that the use of land conforms to the requirements of
this chapter. Any use, arrangement or construction that varies from what has
been authorized by permit shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall
be punishable as provided herein.
      (3)   Variances.
         (a)   Variances may be granted only in accordance with M.S. Ch. 462,
as it may be amended from time to time. A variance shall not circumvent the
general purposes and intent of this section. No variance may be granted that
would allow any use that is prohibited in the zoning district in which the
subject property is located. Conditions may be imposed in the granting of a
variance to ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties and the public
interest. In considering a variance request, the City Council will also
consider whether the property owner has reasonable use of the land without the
variance, whether the property is used seasonally or year-round, whether the
variance is being requested solely on the basis of economic considerations and
the characteristics of development on adjacent properties.
         (b)   The city shall hear and decide requests for variances, including
variances for sewage treatment systems in shoreland districts, in accordance
with
§§ 153.219 and
153.220. When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural Resources
has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the notification of the
approved variance required in division (B)(4) below shall also include the
summary of the public record/testimony and the findings of facts and
conclusions which supported the issuance of the variance.
         (c)   For existing developments, the application for variance shall
clearly demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for
the intended use of the property. All variances granted shall require hook-up
to the municipal sewer system.
      (4)   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources.
         (a)   Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider
variances, amendments or conditional uses under shoreland management controls
shall be sent to the DNR or the DNR’s designated representative and postmarked
at least ten days prior to the hearing. Notices of hearings to consider
proposed preliminary plats shall include copies thereof.
         (b)   A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under shoreland management
controls must be sent to the DNR or the DNR’s designated representative and
postmarked within 30 days of final action.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.119 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the City Council and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of any
other powers granted by state statutes.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.120 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this subchapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this
subchapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this subchapter
shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.121 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
   (C)   For definitions not specifically stated in this subdivision, those
definitions as contained in 7 shall be used.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or structure on the same lot
or part of the main building, occupies by or devoted exclusively to an
accessory use.
      BLUFF. A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having
the following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18%
over a distance for 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the BLUFF):
         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
level of the waterbody;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet or more above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope must drain toward the waterbody.
      BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and land located within 20 feet from the top
of a bluff.
      BOATHOUSE. A structure designed and used for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the minimum required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
      COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. There are typically uses that
provide transient, short-term lodging spaces, rooms or parcels and their
operations that are essentially service- oriented. For example, hotel/motel
accommodations, resorts and other primarily service-oriented activities are
potential COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
      COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale,
lease, rental or trade of products, goods and services.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use which, because of unique characteristics, cannot
be classified as a permitted use in any particular district.
      DNR. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
      DECK. A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached
railings, seats, trellises or other features, attached or functionally related
to a principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet
above ground.
      DUPLEX. A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two units, attached
by common walls and each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating,
living and sanitation facilities.
      DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
      DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof intended for
occupancy by a single family, but not including hotels, motels, boarding or
rooming houses or tourist homes.
         (a)   ATTACHED DWELLING. A dwelling which is joined to another
dwelling at one or more sides by a party wall or wails.
         (b)   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building used or intended to be used as a
dwelling by three or more families, where each dwelling unit is divided by a
parts wall extending the full height of the ceiling. Each unit is capable of
individual use and maintenance without trespassing upon adjoining properties
and utilities and service facilities are independently serviceable.
         (c)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling occupied by only one family,
and so designed and arranged as to provide cooking and kitchen accommodations
and sanitary facilities for one family only.
         (d)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A dwelling so designed and arranged to
provide cooking and kitchen accommodations and sanitary facilities for
occupancy by two families.
      EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of
sand, gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals and peat
not regulated under M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as they may be amended from time to
time.
      FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare
for a new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
      GUEST COTTAGE. A structure used as a dwelling unit that may contain
sleeping spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to those
provided in the primary dwelling unit on a lot.
      HARDSHIP. The property in question cannot be put to reasonable use under
the conditions allowed by the official controls; the plight of the landowner is
due to circumstances unique to his or her property, not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a HARDSHIP
if a reasonable use for the property exists under terms of the official
controls.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining
ground level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height of
the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
      INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage or transfer of goods, products, commodities
or other wholesale items.
      INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees, grasses or
shrubs in a contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
      LOT. A parcel or plot of land intended for building development or as a
unit for transfer of ownership or reserved area as an outlot.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets,
the interior angle of the intersection not exceeding 135°.
         (b)   THROUGH LOT. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines
abutting two substantially paralleled streets, and which is not a corner lot.
On a THROUGH LOT, both street lines shall be front lot lines for applying this
chapter.
      LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of
a lot measured within the first 30 feet of the lot depth. The LOT WIDTH shall
determine the required road frontage and shoreline frontage for lots.
      NONCONFORMITY. Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in
existence, recorded or authorized before the adoption of official controls or
amendments thereto that would not have been permitted to become established
under the terms of the official controls as now written, if the official
controls had been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or
authorized.
      ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL (OHWL). The boundary of public waters and
wetlands, shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has
been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel in the reach 1,000 feet upstream from the site under consideration. For
reservoirs and flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the elevation
specified herein for the water body, if specified, otherwise the elevation is
that listed by the DNR, if specified, otherwise the operating elevation of the
summer pool.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT or CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A type of development
characterized by a unified site design for a number of dwelling units or
dwelling sites on a parcel, whether for sale, rent of lease and also usually
involving clustering of these units or sites to provide areas of common space,
density, increase and/or mix of structure types and land uses. These
developments may be organized and operated as condominiums, time-share
condominiums, cooperatives, full fee ownership, commercial enterprises or any
combination of these, or cluster subdivisions of dwelling units, residential
condominiums, townhouses or apartment buildings and accessory land uses to the
principal users.
      PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters, as defined in M.S. § 1036.005(15), as it may
be amended from time to time, contained herein.
      RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
         (a)   A use where the nature of residency is nontransient and the
major or primary focus of the development is not service-oriented.
         (b)   For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks,
timeshare condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives and full fee ownership
residences would be considered as RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. To
qualify, a development must contain at least five dwelling units or sites.
      RIPARIAN LOT. A lot which borders on or has direct access to a lake,
river or stream.
      SEMIPUBLIC USE. The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
      SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over groundwater or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding or occurrence of flora and fauna in
need of special protection.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system or other feature and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, pow top of a bluff, road, highway, property line or other
facility.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or
other individual or cluster type sewage treatment system, as regulated herein.
      SEWER SYSTEM. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains and
all other constructions, devices, appliances or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate
treatment and disposal.
      SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of
a public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the structure
setback.
      SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public
waters: 1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond, or
flowage; and 300 feet from a river or stream, or the landward extent of a
floodplain designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater.
The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters involved are
bounded by topographic divides that extend landward from the waters for lesser
distances and when approved by the City Council or its duly appointed
representative
      SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE.
         (a)   Any archaeological site, standing structure or other property
that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register of Historic
Places, is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites or is determined to
be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of M.S. § 307.08, as
it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   A historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed
on either register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for
listing after review by the State Archaeologist or the Director of the State
Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically considered
SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
         (c)   Any archaeological site, standing structure or other property
that has been identified through an environmental review process (Environmental
Assessment Worksheet (EAW), Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), Alternate
Urban Area-wide Review (AUAR), etc.).
      STEEP SLOPES.
         (a)   Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site’s
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
      STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except aerial
or underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph,
gas lines, towers, poles and other supporting facilities.
      SUBDIVISION. Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent or lease,
including planned unit development.
      SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
      VARIANCE. The same as term defined or described in M.S. Ch. 462 as it may
be amended from time to time.
      WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY.
         (a)   A small, above ground building or other improvement, except
stairways, fences, docks and retaining walls, which, because of the
relationship of its use to a surface water feature, reasonably need to be
located closer to public waters than the normal structure setback.
         (b)   Examples are gazebos and detached decks.
      WETLAND. A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition) and amended by
Appendix B of the Minnesota Wetlands Conservation Plan, both of which are
hereby incorporated by reference.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.122 CLASSIFICATION AND LAND USE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Shoreland classification system. The public waters of the city have
been classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minn. Regulations,
Part 6120.3300, and the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Wright County,
Minnesota.
      (1)   The shoreland area for the waterbodies listed in divisions (A)(2)
and (3) shall be as shown on the official zoning map.
      (2)   Lakes.
 
                                    Protected Waters Inventory I.D. #
(a)   Natural Environment Lakes    
   Carrigan Lake                  #86-97
   Unnamed                        #86-105
(b)   Recreational Development Lak 
   Little Waverly Lake            #86-106
(c)   General Development Lakes    
   Waverly Lake                   #86-114
 
      (3)   Rivers and streams. All protected watercourses in the city shown on
the Protected Waters Inventory Map for Wright County, a copy of which is hereby
adopted by reference and shall be considered “Tributary.”
   (B)   Land use district descriptions.
      (1)   Criteria for designation. The land use districts in division (B)
(2), and the delineation of a land use district’s boundaries on the official
zoning map, must be consistent with the goals, policies, and objectives of the
comprehensive land use plan (when available) and the following criteria,
considerations and objectives:
         (a)   General considerations and criteria for all land uses:
            1.   Preservation of natural areas;
            2.   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
            3.   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
            4.   Topographic characteristics;
            5.   Vegetative cover;
            6.   In-water physical characteristics, values and constraints;
            7.   Recreational use of the surface water;
            8.   Road and service accessibility;
            9.   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve
water and related land resources;
            10.   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature,
requires location in shoreland areas; and
            11.   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
         (b)   Factors and criteria for planned unit developments:
            1.   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
            2.   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
            3.   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development
approach;
            4.   Level of current development in the area; and
            5.   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands.
      (2)   Land use district descriptions. The land use districts provided
below, and the allowable land uses therein for the given classifications of
waterbodies, shall be properly delineated on the official zoning map for the
shorelands of this community. These land use districts are in conformance with
the criteria specified in Minnesota Regulation, Part 6120.3200, Subp. 3:
         (a)   Land use districts for lakes.
Land Use Districts for Lakes
 General Development Lakes  Recreational Development Natural Environment Lakes
 (GD)                       Lakes (RD)               (NE)
Land Use Districts for Lakes
                     General Development Recreational       Natural Environment
                     Lakes (GD)          Development Lakes  Lakes (NE)
                                         (RD)
Special Protection District - Uses
Forest management    P                   P                  P
Sensitive resources  P                   P                  P
management
Agricultural: crop   P                   P                  P
and pasture
Agricultural:        C                   C                  C
feedlots
Parks and historic   C                   C                  C
sites
Extractive use       C                   C                  C
Single residential   C                   C                  C
Mining of metallic   P                   P                  P
minerals and peat
Residential Districts - Uses
Single residential   P                   P                  P
Semipublic           C                   C                  C
Parks and historic   C                   C                  C
sites
Extractive use       C                   C                  C
Duplex, triplex,     P                   P                  C
quad residential
Forest management    P                   P                  P
Mining of metallic   P                   P                  P
minerals and peat
High Density Residential Districts - Uses
Residential planned  C                   C                  C
unit developments
Single residential   P                   P                  P
Surface water        C                   C                  C
oriented commercial*
Semipublic           C                   C                  C
Parks and historic   C                   C                  C
sites
Duplex, triplex,     P                   P                  P
quad residential
Forest management    P                   P                  P
Water Oriented Commercial Districts - Uses
Surface water -      P                   P                  C
oriented commercial
Commercial planned   C                   C                  C
unit development**
Public, semipublic   C                   C                  C
Parks and historic   C                   C                  C
sites
Forest management    P                   P                  P
General Use Districts - Uses
Commercial           P                   P                  C
Commercial planned   C                   C                  C
unit development**
Industrial           C                   C                  N
Public, semipublic   P                   P                  C
Extractive use       C                   C                  C
Parks and historic   C                   C                  C
sites
*    As accessory to a residential planned unit development.
**   Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to
six additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use
provided the provisions of this subchapter are satisfied.
Notes to Table:
P - Permitted
C - Conditional Use
N - Not Permitted
* - Any principal land use not listed shall be prohibited. This includes guest
cottages, campgrounds and recreational vehicle campgrounds.
 
         (b)   Land use districts for rivers and streams.
Land Use Districts for Rivers and Streams
 Tributary
Land Use Districts for Rivers and Streams
                                      Tributary
Special Protection District - Uses
Forest management                     P
Sensitive resources management        P
Agricultural: crop and pasture        P
Agricultural: feedlots                C
Parks and historic sites              C
Extractive use                        C
Single residential                    C
Mining of metallic minerals and peat  P
Residential Districts - Uses
Single residential                    P
Semipublic                            P
Parks and historic sites              P
Extractive use                        C
Duplex, triplex, quad residential     C
Forest management                     P
Mining of metallic minerals and peat  P
High Density Residential Districts - Uses
Residential planned unit developments C
Single residential                    P
Surface water oriented commercial*    C
Semipublic                            C
Parks and historic sites              C
Duplex, triplex, quad residential     P
Forest management                     P
Water Oriented Commercial Districts - Uses
Surface water-oriented commercial     C
Commercial planned unit development** C
Public, semipublic                    P
Parks and historic sites              C
Forest management                     P
Mining of metallic minerals and peat  P
*   As accessory to a residential planned unit development
**   Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to
six additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use
provided the provisions of this subchapter are satisfied.
NOTES TO TABLE:
P - Permitted
C - Conditional Use
N - Not permitted
* - Any principal land use not listed shall be prohibited. This includes guest
cottages, campgrounds and recreational vehicle campgrounds.
 
      (3)   Use and upgrading of inconsistent land use districts.
         (a)   The land use districts adopted in
Chapter 153, as they apply to shoreland areas, and their delineated boundaries
on the official zoning map, are not consistent with the land use district
designation criteria specified in division (B)(2) herein. These inconsistent
land use district designations may continue until revisions are proposed to
change either the land use district designation within an existing land use
district boundary shown on the official zoning map or to modify the boundary of
an existing land use district shown on the official zoning map.
         (b)   When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision, the following additional criteria and procedures shall apply:
            1.   Lakes. When a revision to a land use district designation on a
lake is considered, the land use district boundaries and use provisions therein
for all the shoreland areas within the jurisdiction of this subchapter on said
lake must be revised to make them substantially compatible with the framework
in divisions (B)(1) and (2) of this section.
            2.   Rivers and streams. When a revision to a land use district
designation on a river or stream is proposed, the land use district boundaries
and the use provisions therein for all shoreland on both sides of the river or
stream within the same classification within the jurisdiction of this
subchapter must be revised to make them substantially compatible with the
framework in divisions (B)(1) and (2). If the same river classification is
contiguous for more than a five-mile segment, only the shoreland for a distance
of 2.5 miles upstream and downstream, or to the class boundary if closer, need
be evaluated and revised.
         (c)   When an interpretation question arises about whether a specific
land use fits within a given “use” category, the interpretation shall be made
by the Board of Adjustment. When a question arises as to whether a land use
district’s boundaries are properly delineated on the official zoning map, this
decision shall be made by the City Council.
         (d)   When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision by an individual party or landowner, this individual party or
landowner will only be responsible to provide the supporting and/or
substantiating information for the specific parcel in question. The City
Council will direct the City Engineer (designated official) to provided such
additional information for this waterbody as is necessary to satisfy divisions
(B)(3)(a) and (b).
         (e)   The City Council must make a detailed finding of fact and
conclusion when taking final action that this revision, and the upgrading of
any inconsistent land use district designations on said waterbody, are
consistent with the enumerated criteria and use provisions of division (B).
      (4)   Land use overlay districts.
         (a)   The land use districts, as described herein, shall be overlay
districts as shown on the official city zoning map.
         (b)   Any use shall be regulated by both the base zone and the
shoreland overlay district with the most restrictive regulation required for
use, setback, height, site coverage, density and any other applicable
regulation or requirement.
         (c)   Land use districts in the shoreland area shall be in conformance
with the criteria specified in Minn. Rules Part 6120.3200(3), as it may be
amended from time to time.
         (d)   District boundaries for the shoreland overly districts shall be
as shown on the official zoning map of the city.
         (e)   Conditional use permits shall be processed by the city, as
provided by this subchapter and §
153.221.
         (f)   Any approved use of a shoreland area in existence prior to the
effective date of this amendment which was permitted by the previous ordinance
requirements but which does not meet current ordinance requirements shall be
declared to be a nonconforming use. Nonconforming uses, except substandard
sanitary facilities, shall be allowed to continue. However, any structural
alteration or addition to a substandard use which will increase the substandard
dimensions shall not be permitted.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.123 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The following minimum requirements shall apply to all shorelands of
the protected waters listed herein within the city.
   (B)   Where the requirements of the underlying zoning district, as shown on
the official zoning map, are more restrictive than those set forth herein, then
the more restrictive standards shall apply.
      (1)   Natural environmental waters.
         (a)   A one-family dwelling detached residential shall be permitted.
         (b)   Only single-family residential shall be permitted.
            1.   The minimum lot width shall be 125 feet.
            2.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 150 feet.
            3.   The minimum lot area for riparian lots shall be 25,000 square
feet.
            4.   The minimum lot area for non-riparian lots shall be 20,000
square feet.
            5.   The maximum height shall be 35 feet.
            6.   The maximum impervious surface shall be 25%.
      (2)   Recreational development standards.
         (a)   Commercial development:
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 50 feet.
            3.   The minimum water frontage shall be 75 feet.
            4.   The maximum impervious surface area shall be 25%.
         (b)   One-family dwelling residential:
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
            3.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 50 feet.
            4.   The minimum lot area for riparian lots shall be 15,000 square
feet.
            5.   The minimum lot area for non-riparian shall be 10,000 square
feet.
            6.   The maximum impervious surface shall be 25%.
         (c)   Two-family residential:
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum lot width shall be 135 feet.
            3.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 50 feet.
            4.   The minimum lot area for riparian lots shall be 26,000 square
feet.
            5.   The minimum lot area for non-riparian lots shall be 17,500
square feet.
            6.   The maximum impervious surface shall be 25%.
         (d)   Multiple dwelling (three or more units):
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 100 feet.
            3.   The minimum water frontage per development shall be 200 feet.
            4.   The maximum impervious surface area shall be 25 feet.
            5.   The average lot area per unit:
               a.   Riparian lots shall be developed only by PUD wherein
density is determined.
               b.   Other lots shall be developed only by PUD wherein density
is determined.
      (3)   General development lake.
         (a)   Commercial development:
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 50 feet.
            3.   The minimum water frontage shall be 75 feet.
            4.   The maximum impervious surface area shall be 25%.
         (b)   One-family dwelling residential:
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
            3.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 50 feet.
            4.   The minimum lot area for riparian lots shall be 15,000 square
feet.
            5.   The minimum lot area for non-riparian shall be 10,000 square
feet.
            6.   The maximum impervious surface shall be 25%.
         (c)   Two-family residential:
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum lot width shall be 135 feet.
            3.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 50 feet.
            4.   The minimum lot area for riparian lots shall be 26,000 square
feet.
            5.   The minimum lot area for non-riparian lots shall be 17,500
square feet.
            6.   The maximum impervious surface shall be 25%.
         (d)   Multiple dwelling (three or more units):
            1.   The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
            2.   The minimum building setback from OHWM shall be 100 feet.
            3.   The minimum water frontage per development shall be 200 feet.
            4.   The maximum impervious surface area shall be 25%.
            5.   The average lot area per unit:
               a.   Riparian lots shall be developed only by PUD wherein
density is determined.
               b.   Other lots shall be developed only by PUD wherein density
is determined.
      (4)   Lot area and frontage requirements.
         (a)   The minimum lot area in (square feet) and minimum lot frontage
requirements (in lineal feet) for residential lots created after the date of
enactment of this subchapter for the lake classifications are as set forth in
this division.
         (b)   Only land above the ordinary high water level of public waters
can be used to meet lot area and lot frontage requirements. These minimum
frontage requirements shall be met at both the ordinary high water level and at
the building line.
         (c)   Additional structure setbacks. The following additional
structure setbacks apply, regardless of the classification of the waterbody:
 
Setback from:                                                Setback (in feet)
Top of bluff:                                                30
Unplatted cemetery:                                          50
Right-of-way line of federal, state, or county highway:      50
Right-of-way line of town road, public street or other roads 20
or streets:
 
         (d)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.124 LOTS FOR CONTROLLED ACCESSES.
   Lots used for controlled accesses to public waters or as recreation areas by
owners of nonriparian lots within subdivisions shall meet or exceed the
following standards:
   (A)   Lots shall meet the minimum frontage width and area requirements for
residential lots, and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access
lots.
   (B)   If docking, mooring or over-water storage of more than six watercraft
is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the lot (keeping
the same lot depth) must be increased by 25% in lot frontage for each
watercraft beyond six.
   (C)   Lots must be jointly or commonly owned by all purchasers of lots in
the subdivision or by all purchasers of nonriparian lots in the subdivision who
are provided riparian access rights on the access lot in a manner acceptable to
the city and the DNR.
   (D)   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments shall be
developed that specifically state which lot owners have authority to use the
access lot and what activities are allowed. The activities may include
watercraft launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring or docking. They
shall also include other outdoor recreational activities that do not
significantly conflict with general public use of the public water or the
enjoyment or normal property rights of adjacent properly owners. Examples of
the nonsignificant conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing or
picnicking. The covenants shall limit the total number of vehicles allowed to
be parked and the total number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored,
docked or stored over water, and shall require centralization of all common
facilities and activities in the most suitable locations on the lot to minimize
topographic and vegetation alterations. They shall also require all parking
areas, storage buildings and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or
topography as much as practical from view from the public water, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.125 PLACEMENT AND DESIGN OF STRUCTURES.
   When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and facilities must
be located to meet all of the most restrictive setbacks. Where structures exist
on the adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed building site, structure
setbacks required for a new proposed building or an addition to an existing
building may be altered without a variance to conform to the setbacks on the
adjoining lots from the ordinary high water level, provided the proposed
building site is not located in a shore impact zone.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.126 FLOODPLAIN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Water-oriented accessory structures, where allowed, may have the
lowest floor placed lower than the elevation determined by the procedures in
this section if the structure is constructed of flood-resistant materials to
the flood elevation, electrical and mechanical equipment is placed above the
flood elevation and, if long duration flooding is anticipated, the structure is
built to withstand ice action, wind- driven waves and debris.
   (B)   Structures must be placed in accordance with floodplain regulations
applicable to the site. Where these controls do not exist, the elevation to
which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed or flood-proofed must be
determined by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three feet above the
highest known water level, or three feet above the ordinary high water level,
whichever is higher.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.127 WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURES.
   Each residence may have one water-oriented accessory structure not meeting
the normal structure setback in
§ 153.123 if this water-oriented accessory structure complies with the
following provisions:
   (A)   The accessory use shall not be a boat house, structure related to
boating (except boat lift), fish house or pump house which are prohibited uses
in all shoreland zoning districts.
   (B)   The structure or facility shall not exceed ten feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than 250 square
feet. Detached decks shall not exceed eight feet above grade at any point.
   (C)   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high water
level shall be at least ten feet.
   (D)   The structure or facility shall be treated to reduce visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
   (E)   The structure of facility shall not be designed or used for human
habitation and shall not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities.
   (F)   Permanent or portable boat lifts, including canvas or cloth canopies,
shall be permitted, in addition to the one accessory structure.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.128 STAIRWAYS, LIFTS, LANDINGS AND DOCKS.
   (A)   Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternative to major topographic
alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore
areas.
   (B)   Stairways and lifts shall meet the following design requirements:
      (1)   Stairways and lifts shall not exceed four feet in width. Wider
stairways may be used for public open space recreational properties.
      (2)   Landings for stairways, landings at the bottom of stairways and
lifts on residential lots shall not exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings
larger than 32 square feet may be used for public open space recreational
properties.
      (3)   Canopies or roofs shall not be permitted on stairways or landings.
      (4)   Stairways, lifts and landings may be either constructed above the
ground on posts or pilings or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion.
      (5)   Stairways, lifts and landings shall be located in the most visually
inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the public water
assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical;
      (6)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas,
provided that the dimensional and performance standards of divisions (B)(1)
through (5) above are complied with in addition to the requirements of M.S. Ch.
1340 as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Private docks that exceed five feet in width require a shoreland
building permit.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.129 SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITES.
   No structure shall be placed on a significant historic site in a manner that
affects the historical value of the site unless adequate information about the
site as determined by the Minnesota Historical Society has been removed and
documented in a public repository.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.130 STEEP SLOPES.
   The City Council or their duly designated representative shall evaluate
possible soil erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters
before issuing a permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads,
driveways, structures or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined
necessary, conditions shall be attached to issued permits to prevent soil
erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles
and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.131 HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES.
   All structures in all shoreland districts shall not exceed 35 feet in
height.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.132 SHORELAND ALTERATIONS.
   Alterations of vegetation and topography will be regulated to prevent soil
erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics,
preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping and protect fish and wildlife
habitat.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.133 VEGETATION ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures and
sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and parking areas
regulated by
§ 153.134 are exempt from the vegetation alteration standards that follow.
   (B)   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses as regulated in
§ 153.138, is allowed subject to the following standards:
      (1)   Clear-cutting and intensive vegetation clearing within the shore
impact zones and on steep slopes are not permitted. Intensive vegetation
clearing for forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is
allowable as a conditional use if a soil erosion control and sedimentation plan
is developed and approved by the Soil and Water Conservation District in which
the property is located.
      (2)   In shore impact zones and on steep slopes, limited clearing of
trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees is allowed to
provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to accommodate
the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access paths, beach and
watercraft areas, and permitted water-oriented accessory structures of
facilities, provided that:
         (a)   The screening or structures, vehicles or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
         (b)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved;
and
         (c)   In the shore impact zone, live trees larger than six inches in
diameter shall not be cut, except to provide for water-oriented accessory
structures or to provide a water-viewing corridor not to exceed 20% of the
shoreline width of the lot.
   (C)   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of trees, limbs
or branches that are dead, diseased or pose safety hazards.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.134 TOPOGRAPHIC ALTERATIONS; GRADING AND FILLING.
   (A)   All topographic alterations, grading, filling, excavating and
backfilling shall be performed in accordance with the city's adopted Stormwater
Management Plan.
   (B)   Grading, filling and excavations necessary for the construction of
structures, public roads, parking areas, sewage treatment systems and driveways
under validly issued building permits for these facilities, do not require the
issuance of a separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and
filling standards in this section shall be incorporated into the issuance of
permits for construction of structures, public roads, parking areas and
driveways.
   (C)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a grading and filling permit shall
be required for:
      (1)   The movement of more than ten cubic yards of material on steep
slopes and within shore impact zones; and
      (2)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside of
steep slopes and shore impact zones.
   (D)   The following considerations and conditions shall be adhered to during
the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits, conditional
use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
      (1)   Each lot created through subdivision, including planned unit
developments, must be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with
minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the city shall consider
susceptibility to flooding, existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations
with severe limitations for development, severe erosion potential, steep
topography, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near
shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, important fish
and wildlife habitat, presence of significant historic sites or any other
feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the health, safety or
welfare of future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the city.
      (2)   Alterations shall be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures that only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the
shortest time possible.
      (3)   Mulches or similar materials shall be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage and a permanent vegetation cover shall be
established as soon as weather conditions allow.
      (4)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before they
reach any surface water feature shall be used.
      (5)   Altered areas shall be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local Soil
and Water Conservation Districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service.
      (6)   Fill or excavated material shall not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope.
      (7)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes shall be
reviewed by the city for continued slope stability and shall not create
finished slopes of 30% or greater.
      (8)   Fill or excavated material shall not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
      (9)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters shall first be authorized by the DNR under M.S. § 105.42, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (10)   Alterations of topography shall be allowed only if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
      (11)   Placement of natural rock riprap; including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet horizontal to one foot vertical, the landward
extent of the riprap is within ten feet of the ordinary high water level, and
the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does not exceed
three feet.
      (12)   Excavations and fills shall also be subject to the provisions of
the city code.
   (E)   (1)   Excavations where the intended purpose is connection to a public
water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons and harbors, requires a conditional
use permit.
      (2)   Permission for excavations may be given only after the DNR has
approved the proposed connection to public waters.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.135 WETLAND PROTECTION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 wetland shall be
evaluated by the city to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
effect the following functional qualities of the wetland:
      (1)   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
      (2)   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
      (3)   Fish and wildlife habitat;
      (4)   Recreational use;
      (5)   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
      (6)   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals or other.
   (B)   (1)   An evaluation shall also be made to determine whether the
wetland alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews or approvals by
other local, state or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Bureau of Soil and Water
Conservation or the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
      (2)   The applicant will be so advised.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.136 ROADS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Public and private roads and parking areas shall be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening
from view from public waters.
   (B)   Roads, driveways and parking areas shall meet structure setbacks and
shall not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other reasonable
and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they shall
be placed within these areas, and shall be designed to minimize adverse
impacts.
   (C)   Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads and access-
related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones provided the
vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this section are met.
For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of
§ 153.134 shall be met.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.137 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   Stormwater management shall be in accordance with the adopted Storm Water
Management Plan for the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.138 COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL, PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC, AGRICULTURAL, FORESTRY
AND EXTRACTIVE USES.
   (A)   Water-oriented uses. Surface water-oriented uses and public, or
semipublic uses, where allowed by this subchapter, that have need for access to
and use of public waters may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on
public waters. Those uses with water-oriented needs must meet the following
standards:
      (1)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, stormwater
management requirements, setbacks and other zoning standards in this
subchapter, the uses must be designed to incorporate topographic and vegetative
screening of parking areas.
      (2)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
      (3)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs
and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards:
         (a)   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
place in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages
may be placed in or on public waters by the city.
         (b)   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact
zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey
needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet above the ground, and must not exceed
32 square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial lights, the lights must be
shielded or directed to prevent illumination out across public waters; and
         (c)   Outside lighting may be located within the shore impact zone or
over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential safety
hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct illumination
out across public waters. This does not preclude use of navigational lights.
   (B)   Non-water-oriented uses.  Uses without water-oriented needs are
encouraged to locate on lots or parcels without public waters frontage.
   (C)   Agriculture use standards.
      (1)   In all lake and river shoreland areas, general cultivation farming,
grazing, nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, sod farming and wild crop
harvesting are permitted uses if steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones
are maintained in permanent vegetation or managed under an approved
conservation plan (resource management systems) consistent with the field
office technical guides of the local soil and water conservation districts of
the United States Soil Conservation Service, as provided by a qualified
individual or agency. The shore impact zone for parcels with permitted
agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and 50 feet from the
ordinary high water level.
      (2)   Animal feedlot operations shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Forest management standards. The harvesting of timber and associated
reforestation shall be conducted consistent with the provisions of the
Minnesota Nonpoint Source Pollution Assessment Forestry and the provisions of
Water Quality in Forest Management “Best Management Practices in Minnesota.”
   (E)   Extractive use standards.
      (1)   Site development and restoration plan. An extractive use site
development and restoration plan shall be developed, approved and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan shall address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration operation, anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It shall also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impact, particularly
erosion and shall clearly explain how and when the site will be rehabilitated
after extractive activities end.
      (2)   Setbacks for processing machinery. Processing machinery shall be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
   (F)   Mining of metallic minerals and peat. Mining of metallic minerals and
peat, as defined in M.S. §§ 93.44 to 93.51, as may be amended from time to
time, shall be a permitted use provided the provisions of M.S. §§ 93.44 to
93.51 are satisfied.
   (G)   Private sewer systems. There shall be no private sewage systems
permitted. All uses shall be connected to the municipal sewage treatment system
and the municipal water supply where available.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
§ 153.139 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be subject to
the review and approval procedures and criteria, standards and conditions for
review of conditional uses established by the city in
§ 153.221.
   (B)   The following additional evaluation criteria and conditions shall
apply within shoreland areas:
      (1)   Evaluation criteria. A thorough evaluation of the waterbody and the
topographic, utilities, vegetation and soils conditions on the site must be
made to ensure:
         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         (c)   That the site is adequately served by public utilities; and
         (d)   The types, uses and number of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
      (2)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits.
         (a)   The Planning Advisory Commission and City Council, upon
consideration of the criteria listed above and the purposes of this chapter,
shall attach conditions to the issuance of the conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter.
         (b)   The conditions may include, but are not limited to the
following:
            1.   Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
            2.   Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
            3.   Special provisions for the location, design and use of
structures, sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas
and vehicle parking areas.
      (3)   Approval required. All conditional use permits and attached
conditions require approval of the City Council, as required in
§ 153.221.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
CLUSTER DEVELOPMENTS; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 153.150 PERMITTED TYPES.
   (A)   Planned unit developments or PUDs are permitted for new projects on
undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built sites or conversions of
existing buildings and land.
   (B)   The land use districts in which they are permitted are identified in
the land use district descriptions in
§ 153.221 and on the official zoning map of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.151 CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS.
   Planned unit developments shall require a planned unit development zoning of
the property and shall also be processed as a conditional use permit as
provided in
§ 153.221.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.152 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Planned unit developments shall only be permitted when they meet the
provisions of
§ 153.221 for a planned unit development district.
   (B)   Planned unit developments shall be processed in accordance with the
provisions of the conditional use permit section of this chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator may require additional information and
documentation to aid in the processing of planned unit developments in a
shoreland zone. This may include but is not limited to surface water features,
existing and proposed vegetative detail, deed restrictions, covenants, owners
association by-laws, details of water oriented uses, long term plans for
preservation and maintenance of open space and similar information.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.153 PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   Public utilities including municipal sanitary sewer and water shall be
available and be required for any planned unit development in the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.154 SITE EVALUATION; SUITABLE AREA.
   Proposed new or expansions to existing planned unit developments shall be
evaluated using the following procedures and standards to determine the
suitable area for the dwelling unit/dwelling site density evaluation in planned
unit development areas.
   (A)   Shoreland tier dimensions. The project parcel shall be divided into
tiers by locating one or more lines approximately parallel to a line that
identifies the ordinary high water level at the following intervals, proceeding
landward:
 
Shoreland Tier Dimensions
Type of Lake                                            Sewered (feet)
General development lakes - first tier (riparian)       200
General development lakes - second and additional tiers 200
Natural environmental lakes                             320
 
   (B)   Suitable area calculation.
      (1)   The suitable area within each tier is calculated by excluding from
the tier area all wetlands, bluffs or land below the ordinary high water level
of public waters.
      (2)   This suitable area and the proposed project are then subjected to
either the residential or commercial planned unit development density
evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or sites.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.155 DENSITY EVALUATION.
   (A)   The procedures for determining the “base” density of a PUD and density
increase multipliers are as follows.
   (B)   Allowable densities may be transferred from any tier to any other tier
further from the waterbody, but shall not be transferred to any other tier
closer.
      (1)   Residential PUD “base” density evaluation. The suitable area within
each tier is divided by the minimum single residential lot size standard for
lakes to determine the maximum permitted density. Proposed locations and number
of dwelling units or sites for residential planned developments are then
compared with the tier, density and suitability analyses herein and the design
criteria in
§ 153.156.
      (2)   Commercial PUD “base” density evaluation. Determine the average
inside living area size of dwelling units or sites within each tier, including
both existing and proposed units and sites. Computation of inside living area
sizes shall not include decks, patios, stoops, steps, garages or porches and
basements, unless they are habitable space.
      (3)   Floor area ratio.
         (a)   Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the following
table:
Commercial PUD Floor Area Ratios and Public Waters Classes
Average Unit Floor Area (square feet) General Development Lakes
Commercial PUD Floor Area Ratios and Public Waters Classes
Average Unit Floor Area (square feet) General Development Lakes
400                                   .056
500                                   .065
600                                   .072
700                                   .082
800                                   .091
900                                   .099
1,000                                 .108
1,100                                 .116
1,200                                 .125
1,300                                 .133
1,400                                 .142
1,500 and above                       .150
 
         (b)   Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor area
ratio to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling
units or sites.
         (c)   Divide the total floor area by tier, computed in division (B)(3)
(b) above, by the average inside living area size determined herein. This
yields a base number of dwelling units and sites for each tier.
         (d)   Proposed locations and number of dwelling units or sites for the
commercial planned development are then compared with the tier, density and
suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in
§ 153.156.
      (4)   Density increase multipliers.
         (a)   Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base densities
previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards listed herein
are met or exceeded and the design criteria in
§ 153.156 below are satisfied. The allowable density increases herein below
will only be allowed if structure setbacks from the ordinary high water level
are increased to at least 50% greater than the minimum setback, or the impact
on the waterbody is reduced an equivalent amount through vegetative management,
topography or additional means acceptable to the city and the setback is at
least 25% greater than the minimum setback.
         (b)   Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density increases for
residential or commercial planned unit developments:
 
Density Evaluation Tiers Maximum Density Increase in Each Tier
First                    50%
Second                   100%
Third                    200%
Fourth                   200%
Fifth                    200%
 
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.156 MAINTENANCE AND DESIGN CRITERIA.
   (A)   Before final approval of a planned unit development, adequate
provisions shall be developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open spaces and for the continued existence and functioning of the development.
   (B)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements, public dedication
and acceptance or other equally effective and permanent means shall be provided
to ensure long-term preservation and maintenance of open space. The instruments
shall include all of the following protections:
      (1)   Commercial uses prohibited (for residential PUDs);
      (2)   Vegetation and topographic alterations shall be prohibited except
by routine maintenance;
      (3)   Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles and
other materials shall be prohibited; and
      (4)   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Development organization and functioning: unless an equally effective
alternative community framework is established, when applicable, all
residential planned developments shall use an owners association with the
following features:
      (1)   Membership shall be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchasers and any successive purchasers;
      (2)   Each member shall pay a pro rata share of the association’s
expenses and unpaid assessments shall become liens on units or sites;
      (3)   Assessments shall be adjustable to accommodate changing conditions;
and
      (4)   The association shall be responsible for insurance, taxes and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.157 OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   Planned unit developments shall contain open space meeting all of the
following criteria:
   (A)   At least 50% of the total project area shall be preserved as open
space.
   (B)   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way or land covered by road
surfaces, parking areas, or structures, except water-oriented accessory
structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space.
   (C)   Open space shall include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries.
   (D)   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use by
owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or sites, and by the general public.
   (E)   Open space shall not include commercial facilities or uses, but may
contain water-oriented accessory structures or facilities.
   (F)   The appearance of open space areas, including topography, vegetation
and allowable uses, shall be preserved by use of restrictive deed covenants,
permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance or other equally
effective and permanent means.
   (G)   (1)   The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks, must
be included as open space.
      (2)   For residential PUDs, at least 50% of the shore impact zone area of
existing developments or at least 70% of the shore impact zone area of new
developments shall be preserved in its natural state.
      (3)   For commercial PUDs at least 50% of the shore impact zone must be
preserved in its natural state.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.158 EROSION CONTROL; STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   Erosion control and stormwater management plans shall be developed and the
PUD shall:
   (A)   Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the likelihood
of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction. This shall be
accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time of bare ground exposure.
Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities, vegetated buffer
strips or other appropriate techniques shall be used to minimize erosion
impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans approved by the soil
and water conservation district may be required if project size and site
physical characteristics warrant.
   (B)   Be designed and constructed to effectively manage reasonably expect
quantities and qualities of stormwater runoff. Impervious surface coverage
within any tier shall not exceed 25% of the tier area, except that for
commercial PUDs 35% impervious surface coverage may be allowed in the first
tier of general development lakes with an approved stormwater management plan
and consistency with
§ 153.131.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.159 CENTRALIZATION AND DESIGN OF FACILITIES.
   Centralization and design of facilities and structures shall be done in
accordance with the following standards:
   (A)   Planned unit developments shall be connected to publicly-owned
(municipal) water supply and sewer systems.
   (B)   Dwelling units or sites shall be clustered into one or more groups and
located on suitable areas of the development. They shall be designed and
located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the relevant
shoreland classification setback from the ordinary high water level, elevation
above the surface water features and maximum height. Setbacks from the ordinary
high water level shall be increased in accordance with
§ 153.156 for developments with density increases.
   (C)   Shore recreation facilities, including but not limited to swimming
areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, shall be
centralized and located in suitable areas. Evaluation of suitability shall
include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation, soils, depth to
groundwater and bedrock or relevant factors. The number of spaces provided for
continuous beaching, mooring or docking of watercraft shall not exceed one for
each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier. Launching ramp
facilities, including a small dock for loading and unloading equipment, may be
provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or sites located in other
tiers.
   (D)   Structures, parking areas and other facilities shall be treated to
reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color or other means acceptable to
the city, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative and topographic
screening shall be preserved, if existing, or may be required to be provided.
   (E)   Accessory structures and facilities, except water oriented accessory
structures, shall meet the required principal structure setback and shall be
centralized.
   (F)   Water-oriented accessory structures and facilities may be allowed if
they meet or exceed design standards contained in
§ 153.125 and are centralized.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.160 CONVERSIONS.
   Local governments may allow existing land uses and facilities to be
converted to residential planned developments if all of the following standards
are met:
   (A)   (1)   Proposed conversions shall be initially evaluated using the same
procedures for planned developments involving all new construction.
      (2)   Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards shall be identified.
   (B)   Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment, structure
color, impervious coverage, open space and shore recreation facilities shall be
corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the conditional use
permit.
   (C)   Shore impact zone deficiencies shall be evaluated and reasonable
improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements shall include,
where applicable, the following:
      (1)   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks or other facilities that no
longer need to be located in shore impact zones;
      (2)   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve vegetative
cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from the water;
and
      (3)   If existing dwelling units are located in shore impact zones,
conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that preclude exterior
expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The conditions shall
also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where feasible, to other
locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements when they are rebuilt
or replaced.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.161 EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed standards in
§ 153.155 may be allowed to continue but shall not be allowed to be increased,
either at the time of conversion or in the future. Efforts shall be made during
the conversion to limit impacts of high densities by improving vegetative
screening, centralizing shore recreation facilities, installing new sewage
treatment systems or other means.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.162 NONCONFORMITIES.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this chapter may
continue, but shall be administered according to applicable state statutes and
other regulations of the city for future alterations and additions, repair or
replacement after damage, discontinuance of use and intensification of use;
except that the following standards shall also apply in shoreland areas:
   (A)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record.
      (1)   Lots of record in the Office of the County Recorder on the date of
enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements herein
listed may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   A variance from setback requirements shall be obtained before any
use, or building permit is issued for a lot where minimum setback requirements
cannot be met. In evaluating the variance, the city shall consider sewage and
water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall deny the variance
if municipal sewer cannot be provided.
      (3)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements herein listed, the
lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land for the purposes of
sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one or more contiguous
lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the requirements
herein listed as much as possible.
   (B)   Additions/expansions to nonconforming structures.
      (1)   All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming structure shall meet the setback, height and other
requirements of §§
153.175 through
153.188 and
153.200 through
153.206. Any deviation from these requirements shall be authorized by a
variance.
      (2)   Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
         (a)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
         (b)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck which would meet or exceed the existing ordinary
high water level setback of the structure;
         (c)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does
not exceed 15% of the existing setback of the structure from the ordinary high
water level or does not encroach closer than 30 feet, whichever is more
restrictive; and
         (d)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not roofed or
screened.
   (C)   Nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
      (1)   A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of §§
153.150 through
153.162 must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or variance of any
type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the property. For the
purposes of this provisions, a sewage treatment system shall not be considered
nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage treatment system's improper
setback from the ordinary high water level.
      (2)   The governing body of the city has been formal resolution notified
the commissioner of its program to identify nonconforming sewage treatment
systems. The city will require upgrading or replacement of any nonconforming
system identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will
not exceed two years. Sewage systems installed according to all applicable
local shoreland management standards adopted under M.S. Ch. 103F, in effect at
the time of installation may be considered as conforming unless they are
determined to be failing, except that systems using cesspools, leaching pits,
seepage pits, or other deep disposal methods, or systems with less soil
treatment area separation above groundwater than required by the Minnesota
Pollution Control Agency's Chapter 7080 for design of on-site sewage treatment
systems, shall be considered nonconforming.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 8-10-04)
GENERAL STANDARDS
§ 153.175 INTENT.
   The intent of this subchapter is to establish general development
performance standards. The regulations provided herein shall apply equally to
all districts except where special provisions provided otherwise.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.176 PARKING AND LOADING.
   (A)   In all zoning districts, off-street parking facilities for the storage
of motor vehicles for the use of occupants, employees and patrons of the
buildings or structures hereafter erected, altered or extended after the
effective date of this chapter shall be provided and maintained as herein
prescribed.
   (B)   (1)   Loading space shall not be construed as supplying off-street
parking space.
      (2)   Whenever a use requiring off-street parking is increased in floor
area, and the use is located in a building existing on or before the effective
date of this chapter, additional parking space for the additional floor area
shall be provided and maintained in amounts hereafter specified for that use.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, “floor area,” in the case of
offices, merchandising or service types of uses, shall mean the gross floor
area used or intended to be used for services to the public as customers,
patrons, clients or patients as tenants, including areas occupied for fixtures
and equipment used for display or sale of merchandise, less 10%.
      (4)   Off-street parking facilities for dwellings shall be provided and
located on the same lot or parcel of land as the building they are intended to
serve.
      (5)   Where a use is not specifically mentioned, off-street parking
requirements shall be the same as for similar use.
   (C)   (1)   Access drives may be located adjacent to property lines except
that they shall not be placed closer than five feet to any side or rear lot
line unless the rear or side yard is adjacent to an alley. The number and types
of access drives onto streets and alleys may be controlled and limited by the
City Council in the interests of public safety and efficient traffic flow.
      (2)   Access drives onto a county road shall require a review and
approval by the County Engineer. The County Engineer shall determine the
appropriate location, size and design of the access drives and may limit the
number of access drives in the interest of public safely and efficient traffic
flow. City Council approval must be obtained.
      (3)   Access drives to principal structures which traverse wooded, steep
or open field areas shall be constructed and maintained to a width and base
material depth sufficient to support access by emergency vehicles. The city
shall review all access drives (driveways) for compliance with accepted
community access drive standards. All driveways shall have a minimum width of
ten feet with a road strength capable of supporting emergency and fire
vehicles. The maximum width should be no more than enough to accommodate a
three-car garage.
      (4)   All lots or parcels shall have direct adequate physical access for
emergency vehicles along the frontage of the lot or parcel from either an
existing dedicated public roadway or an existing private roadway approved by
the City Council.
      (5)   Existing driveway access shall be the responsibility of the city
when the street line is improved. If a property owner desires to install a new
driveway which will cut on the improved curb line, the financial responsibility
will remain with the property owner.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.177 REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The amount of required off-street parking spaces for new uses, buildings,
additions thereto and additions to existing buildings, as specified previously,
shall be determined in accordance with the following and the space so required
and shall be irrevocably reserved for such use.
   (A)   Single-family and two-family: one space per unit;
   (B)   Boarding house: at least two parking spaces for each three persons for
whom accommodations are provided for sleeping.
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings, including townhouse units: one and one-half
spaces per unit.
   (D)   Motels, motor hotels, hotels: one space per each rental unit, plus one
additional space for each ten units and one space for each employee on any
shift.
   (E)   Church, theater, auditorium: at least one parking space for each four
seats based on the design capacity of the main assembly hall.
   (F)   Medical, dental or hospital out-patient clinics: one space for each
110 square feet or net floor area or seven and one-half spaces per doctor,
whichever number of parking spaces is greater.
   (G)   Elderly (senior citizen) housing: one space per unit.
   (H)   Drive-in establishment and convenience food: at least one parking
space for each 35 square feet of gross floor area but not less than 15 spaces.
   (I)   Office buildings and professional offices: one space for each 250
square feet of floor area.
   (J)   Bowling alley: at least five parking spaces for each alley, plus
additional spaces as may be required herein for related uses contained within
the principal structure.
   (K)   Motor fuel station: at least four off-street parking spaces, plus two
off-street parking spaces for each service stall. Those facilities designed for
sale of other items than strictly automotive products, parts and/or service
shall be required to provide additional parking in compliance with other
applicable sections of this chapter.
   (L)   Retail store and service establishment: at least one off-street
parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area.
   (M)   Retail sales and service business with 50% of gross floor area devoted
to storage, warehouses and/or industry: one space for each 200 square feet
devoted to public sales and/or service, plus one space for each employee on the
maximum shift which is appropriate.
   (N)   Restaurants, cafes, private clubs serving food and/or drinks, bars,
taverns, nightclubs: at least one space for each 60 square feet of gross floor
area.
   (O)   Funeral home: at least 20 parking spaces for each chapel or parlor,
plus one parking space for each chapel or parlor, plus one parking space for
each funeral vehicle maintained on the premises. Aisle space shall also be
provided off the street for making up a funeral procession.
   (P)   Auto repair, bus terminal, boats and marine sales and repair company,
shop for a trade employing six or less people, garden store, building material
sales in structure: eight spaces, plus one space for each two employees on each
shift based on maximum planned employment or at a minimum one space for each
500 square feet of floor area.
   (Q)   Manufacturing fabricating or processing of a product or material,
warehouse, storage, handling of bulk goods, post offices: at least eight
spaces, plus one space for each two employees on each shift based on maximum
planned employment or at a minimum one space for each 500 square feet of floor
area.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.178 PARKING LOT STANDARD.
   In all districts where off-street parking lots are permitted or required
off-street parking lots shall be constructed and maintained subject to the
following regulations:
   (A)   Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided as approved by the city.
   (B)   The parking lots shall be maintained in a useable dust-proof
condition, such as concrete, blacktop or properly treated crushed rock, or some
other permanently surfaced area and shall be kept graded and drained to dispose
of surface water.
   (C)   Whenever the parking lot boundary adjoins property zoned for
residential use, a setback of eight feet from the lot line shall be required
and maintained.
   (D)   Necessary curbs or other protections against damage to adjoining
properties, streets and sidewalks shall be provided and maintained.
   (E)   Plans for the construction of any parking lot and driveways must be
approved by the city before construction is started. No land shall be used for
parking until approved by the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.179 REQUIRED LOADING BERTHS.
   In connection with any structure which is to be erected or substantially
altered and which requires the receipt or distribution of materials or
merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, with a gross floor area of 10,000
square feet or more, there shall be off-street loading provided on the basis of
the following:
 
Gross Floor Area (Square Feet) Minimum Required Loading Berths
10,000 to 16,000               1
16,000 to 40,000               2
40,000 to 70,000               3
70,000 to 100,000              4
Each additional 40,000         One additional
 
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.180 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In all residential districts, detached accessory buildings shall be
located in the rear yard. When located within ten feet of the rear wall of the
principal building, they shall comply with all yard requirements applicable to
the principal building in the district. Where accessory buildings are to be
located more than ten feet from a rear wall of the principal building, they
shall not be located closer than four feet from an adjoining side or rear lot
line. All accessory buildings shall setback a minimum of 30 feet from all
street right-of-way lines. Accessory building are further limited not to exceed
over one story or 16 feet in height. In business and industrial districts,
accessory buildings and uses may occupy any of the ground area which the
principal building is permitted to occupy provided they meet the minimum
required building setbacks.
   (B)   In residential districts, the size of accessory buildings will be
determined by the total lot size of properties which are listed as one tax
parcel and which are non-separable and will not be subdivided in the future.
The following property size/accessory building size scale is adopted:
 
Property Size                Accessory Building Size
Less than 10,000 square feet 940 square feet
At least 10,000 square feet  1,000 square feet
At least 12,500 square feet  1,100 square feet
At least 15,000 square feet  1,200 square feet
 
   (C)   Accessory buildings over 120 square feet or those to be used for human
habitation shall be required to obtain a building permit for new construction
or remodeling.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.181 FENCING, SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Screening.
      (1)   All materials and equipment, except as provided in the district
provisions of this chapter, shall be stored within a building or structure or
screened so as not to be visible from adjoining properties, except the
following:
         (a)   Useable laundry equipment (clothes lines);
         (b)   Recreational equipment and vehicles; and
         (c)   Construction and landscaping material currently being used on
the premises.
      (2)   In all commercial and industrial districts adjacent to residential
districts and not divided by streets, there shall be provided along the
property line a 20-foot-wide planting strip composed of grass, trees and
shrubs. A screening fence may be utilized when approved by the Planning
Commission. The fence shall not exceed eight feet in height or be less than six
feet in height.
   (B)   Landscaping. In all zoning districts, the lot area remaining after
providing for parking, driveways, loading, sidewalks or other requirements
shall be planted and maintained in grass, sodding, shrubs or other acceptable
vegetation or landscaping techniques. Refer to §§
153.255 et seq. for landscaping regulations.
   (C)   Fencing.
      (1)   Definition.
         FENCE. A partition made from rails, timbers, chain link, boards, stone
walls, hedges, vinyl or any other materials. A BOUNDARY-LINE FENCE requires
periodic maintenance and, in the case of vine or flowers being intertwined into
a chain link fence or hedges, regular landscape maintenance. A MAINTENANCE-FREE
FENCE is a fence constructed of chain link, steel, plastic or vinyl material.
      (2)   Permit required. No person shall construct any fence without first
making application for and securing an administrative permit. A site survey
and/or boundary survey should be submitted with the application. A description
of the construction type is also required along with the application for a
permit.
      (3)   Locations.
         (a)   All fences, including boundary-line and maintenance-free types,
shall be located no closer than two feet from any side or rear property lot
line on the property of the person constructing the fence, unless a written
agreement, describing the variance and who will be responsible for maintaining
the fences and the property between these fences, is signed by both property
owners and on file with the city prior to the approval of the administrative
fence permit.
         (b)   On corner lots, no fence or screening material shall be
permitted within the traffic sight visibility triangle that is 20 feet from the
intersection on all sides.
      (4)   Maintenance of setbacks. In all cases, unless indicated
differently, the maintenance of all setbacks would be the responsibility of
each home owner.
      (5)   Height regulations.
         (a)   Residential fencing may not exceed six feet unless approved by
special permit.
         (b)   In the case of grade separation, the height shall be determined
on the basis of measurement from the average point between the highest and
lowest grade.
         (c)   Industrial/commercial fences may not exceed eight feet in height
unless a conditional use permit is approved, depending upon the circumstance.
      (6)   Construction and maintenance.
         (a)   Fences shall be constructed in a workmanlike manner and of
substantial material reasonably suited for the purpose for which the fence is
proposed to be used. Fences shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable
repair and shall not be allowed to become a danger or constitute a nuisance,
public or private. Any fence that is or becomes dangerous to the public safety,
health or welfare is a public nuisance, and the city may commence proper
proceedings for abatement thereof.
         (b)   The side of any fence considered to be its FACE (i.e., the
finished side having no structural supports) shall face the abutting property
or street right-of-way.
         (c)   Electric fences shall be permitted only when related to
agricultural uses, but not as boundary fences.
         (d)   Barbed-wire fences shall only be permitted for agricultural,
business or industrial purposes. Barbed-wire fences for business or industrial
purposes are subject to regulations set forth in part division (C)(8) of this
section.
      (7)   Residential fencing and screening.
         (a)   Except as provided herein, fences shall be at least 5% open for
passage of air, light and drainage.
         (b)   Except as provided herein, fences shall not exceed six feet in
height.
         (c)   Fences extending across front yards and side yards abutting a
public right-of-way shall not exceed 48 inches in height, shall be at least 75%
open space for passage of air and light, and shall not be permitted within the
traffic visibility triangle.
         (d)   Natural water flow cannot be restricted by the fence.
      (8)   Business and industrial fencing.
         (a)   No fence shall be allowed in the front yard of a business use
except by special use permit.
         (b)   Except in a required front yard, business and industrial fences
may be erected as provided herein.
         (c)   Business and industrial fences with barbed-wire security arms
shall be erected with a minimum height of six feet (measured without the
security arm). The security arm shall be angled in such a manner that it
extends only over the property of the permit holder and does not endanger the
public. Security fencing shall be prohibited within a required front yard or
when located along a property line abutting a residential use.
      (9)   Solid walls. Solid walls, up to six feet in height, that are not
part of buildings may be constructed and maintained only in the buildable area
of a lot.
      (10)   Compliance.
         (a)   Fences installed after December 11, 2012, will be required to
conform to the regulations within this section.
         (b)   Fences installed prior to December 11, 2012, will be legal
nonconforming uses. If a nonconforming fence is removed, replacement of the
fence will require compliance with this section in its entirety.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00; Am. Ord. 12-01Z, passed 12-11-12)
§ 153.182 UNPLATTED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person desiring to improve unplatted property shall submit to the
city a survey of the premises and information on the location and dimensions of
proposed buildings, location of easements crossing the property and information
which may be necessary to insure conformance to city ordinances.
   (B)   All buildings shall be so placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed in conformity with existing streets.
   (C)   The city shall review the lot survey to determine if the division and
creation of the property was in compliance with the statutes and regulations
applicable at the time of the division. If the city finds that the division of
the property was in compliance with legal requirements applicable at the time
of the division, the lot shall be recognized and development of the property
shall be allowed in conformance to the building and zoning regulations of the
city. If the city finds that the division of the property was not in compliance
with legal requirements applicable at the time of the division, the lot shall
not be recognized and current standards and procedures for platting shall be
imposed.
   (D)   If property is proposed to be subdivided or developed, it shall comply
with
Ch. 152 of this code.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.183 DWELLING UNIT RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No basement, except when used as a portion of the living space of the
family, cellar, garage, tent or accessory building shall at any time be used as
a residence or dwelling unit, temporarily or permanently.
   (B)   On a through lot (a lot fronting on two parallel streets) or a corner
lot, both street lot lines shall be front lot lines for applying yard and
parking requirements.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.184 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   All sewage facilities shall be connected to the city sewer facilities.
This provision shall not apply to temporary construction sites or portable
units as otherwise permitted by the city.
   (B)   Any lighting used to illuminate an off-street parking area, sign or
other structure, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any adjoining
residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare,
where from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as combustion or
welding shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The source of lights
shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light adjacent
property.
   (C)   The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and
regulated by the state pollution control standards, Minn. Rules Chs. 1009 and
7011, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The emission of dust, fly ash or other particulated matter by any use
shall be in compliance with and regulated by the state pollution control
standards, Minn. Rules Chs. 1009 and 7011, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (E)   The emission of odorous matter in a quantity as to be offensive shall
not be permitted. The emission of odor by any use shall be in compliance with
and regulated by the state pollution control standards, Minn. Rules Chs. 1009
and 7011, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   All noise shall be muffled so as not to be objectionable due to
intermittence, beat frequency or shrillness and as measured at any property
line, shall not exceed the minimum standards established by Minn. Rules Ch.
7030, as it may be amended from time to time..
   (G)   The following uses shall be prohibited in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Final disposal facility for mixed municipal solid waste, hazardous
waste, industrial waste, incinerator ash or infectious waste;
      (2)   New sanitary landfill;
      (3)   Incineration of any solid waste, mixed municipal solid waste,
hazardous waste, industrial waste or infectious waste or contaminated soils;
      (4)   Disposal, treatment or processing of hazardous waste or infectious
waste;
      (5)   Storage of hazardous waste;
      (6)   Processing of waste tires to produce tire derived products;
      (7)   Tire dump or disposal of waste tires;
      (8)   Refused derived fuel facility;
      (9)   Recycling facility, except by conditional use permit;
      (10)   Transfer station or transfer facility;
      (11)   Energy recovery facility;
      (12)   Open dump;
      (13)   Disposal of construction debris or demolition debris; and
      (14)   Composting facility (except municipal which is permitted).
   (H)   Topographical alterations and excavations are hereby adopted as stated
herein.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.185 HEIGHT AND YARD EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Chimneys, cooling towers, elevator bulk head, fire towers, drive-in
movie theater screens, grain elevators, silos, penthouses, stacks, tanks, water
towers, pumping towers, radio or television towers, monuments, cupolas,
steeples and mechanical appurtenances pertaining to and necessary to the
permitted use of the district in which they are located, shall not be included
in calculating the height of the principal structure.
   (B)   Outside stairways, fire escapes, fire towers, porches, platforms,
decks, balconies, boiler flues and other similar projections shall be
considered as part of the building and not allowed as part of the required
space for yards, courts or unoccupied space. This provision shall not apply to
one fireplace or one chimney, not more than eight feet in length and projecting
not more than 30 inches into the allowable side yard space nor cornices not
exceeding 16 inches in width nor to platforms, terraces or steps below the
first floor level, nor to unenclosed porches or other ground level unenclosed
projections not over one story in height which may extend into a front or rear
yard not more than five feet, or into a side yard not more than four feet, the
platform shall be restricted from the five-foot required side yard in the
residence district.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.186 SETBACK MEASUREMENTS.
   All required setbacks shall be measured from the property line.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.187 MONUMENTS.
   The surveyor and/or developer shall be required to set and place all lot
corners and survey control monuments within one year after recording a plat or
sooner if specified by the City Council as provided in M.S. § 505.02(1) as it
may be amended from time to time. The City Council may require a financial
guarantee to insure performance.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.188 NONCONFORMING USES.
   The lawful use of a building or structure existing at the time of the
adoption of this chapter may be continued although the use does not conform
with the district provisions herein.
   (A)   A nonconforming use may be extended throughout the building or
structure, provided no structural alterations or changes are made therein,
except those required by law or ordinance or as may be required for safety, or
as may be necessary to secure or insure the continued advantageous use of the
building during its natural life.
   (B)   Any nonconforming building or structure damaged more than 50% of its
then appraised value, exclusive of foundations at the time of damage by fire,
collapse, explosion or acts of God or public enemy, shall not be restored or
reconstructed and used as before such a happening; but, if less than 50%
damaged above the foundation, it may be restored, reconstructed or used as
before provided that it is done within 12 months of the happening and that it
be built of like or similar materials, or the architectural design and building
materials are approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   A nonconforming use cannot be changed to a comparable nonconforming
use. Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a conforming use, or to a
use permitted in a district of greater restrictions, it shall not thereafter be
changed to a nonconforming use of less restricted district.
   (D)   In the event that a nonconforming use of any building or building and
land is discontinued for a period of one year, the use of the same shall
conform thereafter to the uses permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (E)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary
nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations which do not extend or
intensify the nonconforming use.
   (F)   (1)   Any building or structure for which a building permit has been
issued and the construction of the whole or a part of which has been started,
prior to the effective date of this chapter may be completed and used in
accordance with the plans and application on which the building permit was
granted.
      (2)   Any proposed structure which will, under this chapter, become
nonconforming but for which a building permit has been lawfully granted prior
to the effective date of this chapter, may be completed in accordance with the
approved plans; provided construction is started within 60 days of the
effective date of this chapter, is not abandoned for a period of more than 120
days, and continues to completion within two years. The structure and use shall
thereafter be a legally nonconforming structure and use.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.189 ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   (A)   Purpose. The provisions contained in §§ are intended to regulate
antennas, towers and antenna and tower accessory structures. It is the policy
of the city to allow only as many antennas and towers within the city as are
reasonably necessary to provide reasonable access to communication services. To
the maximum extent possible, antennas and towers shall be co-located or
attached to existing structures, including specifically but not exclusively
municipal water towers, in order to minimize the number of antenna and tower
sites within the city.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   Anyone wishing to erect an antenna or tower shall file an
application, along with a non-refundable application fee, in the form and
amount established by the city. The application shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission and City Council for review.
      (2)   The following regulations shall apply to antennas and towers in
addition to any other requirements of the Waverly Zoning Ordinance. In the
event of a conflict between these regulations and other requirements of the
Waverly Zoning Ordinance, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
         (a)   Antennas and towers shall be permitted in the R-A and I-
1 districts only.
         (b)   Antennas and towers shall not be located within two miles of
another antenna or tower unless placed on or co-located on existing structures.
         (c)   Antennas and towers shall not be located within 500 feet of a
residential district.
         (d)   The front yard setback for antennas and towers shall be the
height of the antenna or tower, or the setback established for the zoning
district in which the antenna or tower is located, whichever is greater.
         (e)   The side yard setback for antennas and towers shall be the
height of the antenna or tower, or the setback established for the zoning
district in which the antenna or tower is located, whichever is greater.
         (f)   The rear yard setback for antenna and towers shall be the height
if the antenna or tower, or the setback established for the zoning district in
which the antenna or tower is located, whichever is greater.
         (g)   Antennas and towers shall be of single pole construction only,
and no lattice work structures, no oil derrick style structures, and no
structures with guy wires shall be used or constructed.
         (h)   Antennas and towers shall be designed and located to be visually
unobtrusive, shall be appropriately screened, shall not be multi-colored, and
shall contain no signage (including specifically but not exclusively logos),
unless required by state ad federal regulations.
         (i)   Antennas and towers shall be enclosed by climber-resistant
fencing.
         (j)   Antennas and towers that are illuminated shall be constructed so
that the light does not shine onto any residence, residential district, or
roadway, unless required by state and federal regulations.
         (k)   The structural integrity of antennas and towers shall be
approved in writing by a licensed engineer.
         (l)   The owner, tenant, or operator of an antenna or tower and the
owner of the land on which the antenna or tower is located shall maintain the
grounds in good repair and in a neat and sanitary condition. All grass shall be
mowed, weeds cut and removed, and other debris and rubbish stored in
appropriate containers for prompt transport to sanitary landfills.
         (m)   Antennas and towers shall be constructed so that no less than
two additional antennas may be attached to the first structures erected.
Applicants seeking to construct antennas and towers shall bear the burden of
establishing that their facilities cannot reasonably be located on existing
antennas and towers previously approved by the city or on other existing
structures such as municipal water towers.
         (n)   Obsolete or unused antennas and towers shall be removed within
six months after operations cease. In the case of multiple operators sharing a
single location, this provision shall not apply until all users cease
operations for six months. After facilities are removed, the site shall be
restored to its original, or improved, condition.
   (D)   An antenna or tower that violates the Waverly Zoning Ordinance or
endangers the public health, safety, or welfare of the citizens of the city, is
hereby declared to be a nuisance. The city, upon reasonable notice to the
owner, tenant, or operator of the antenna or tower, or to the owner of the land
on which the antenna or tower is located, may require the abatement of the
antenna or tower. If an antenna or tower poses an immediate threat to public
health, safety, or welfare, the city may require immediate abatement. The city
may also take direct action to abate such nuisances and may specifically and
may specially assess the costs of the abatement to the property.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 2-12-02)
§ 153.190 WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS (WES).
   General standards.
   (A)   No more than one wind energy system (WES) per lot.
   (B)   The height of all WES will be determined by calculating the height
from the base of the tower to the highest point of the blades.
   (C)   The WES shall be located to comply with the following minimum setback
requirements:
      (1)   From the nearest building: 300 feet or the height of the WES,
whichever is greater;
      (2)   From the nearest right-of-way: 300 feet or the height of the WES,
whichever is greater;
      (3)   From the nearest property line: 300 feet or the height of the WES,
whichever is greater;
      (4)   From recreation fields: 300 feet or the height of the WES,
whichever is greater; and
      (5)   No portion of the WES, including the blades, shall extend over any
above ground power line or utility easement.
   (D)   The WES shall be equipped with both automatic and manual braking
systems capable of stopping the WES operation in high winds.
   (E)   The WES shall be grounded to protect against lightning strikes in
conformance with the National Electrical Code.
   (F)   The WES shall not have a climbing apparatus within 12 feet of the
ground.
   (G)   The WES shall have a sign posted at the base of the tower that
contains the following information:
      (1)   A warning of high voltage;
      (2)   The manufacturer’s name;
      (3)   An emergency telephone number; and
      (4)   The emergency shutdown procedures.
   (H)   The WES shall not have affixed or attached lights, reflectors,
flashers or any other illumination, except for illumination devices required by
FAA.
   (I)   The WES shall be designed and constructed so as to not cause radio and
television interference.
   (J)   The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any WES conditional
use permit to inspect the premises on which the WES is located. If the WES is
not maintained in safe and operational condition, the owner shall take
immediate action to correct the situation.
   (K)   All obsolete and unused towers and equipment must be removed within 12
months of cessation of operation at the site, unless an exemption is granted by
the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. 10-01Z, passed 9-14-10)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 153.200 CONFORMANCE.
   All signs hereafter erected or maintained, except official, public, traffic
and street signs shall conform to the provisions of this subdivision and any
other ordinance or regulation of the city.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.201 GENERAL SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs shall not be permitted within the public right-of-way or
easements, except as erected by an official unit of government or public
utilities for the direction of traffic or necessary public information.
   (B)   Flashing or rotating signs resembling emergency vehicles shall not be
permitted in any district.
   (C)   Signs painted on a building shall be governed by the square footage
limitations specified in the appropriate zoning districts. These shall be
repainted when required to be kept in good condition, and shall be repainted,
removed or painted out when, in the opinion of the City Council, they are not
so maintained.
   (D)   No sign shall be placed that resembles any official marker erected by
a governmental agency or shall display the words as “stop” or “danger.”
   (E)   No sign shall be permitted to obstruct any window, door, fire escape,
stairway or opening intended to provide light, air, ingress or egress for any
building or structure.
   (F)   The owner, lessee or manger of any ground sign and the owner of the
land on which the same is located shall keep grass or weeds and other growth
cut and debris and rubbish cleaned up and removed from the lot on which a sign
is located.
   (G)   Advertising signs, business signs and name plate signs which may be or
may hereafter become rotted, unsafe or unsightly shall be repaired or removed
by the owner or lessee of the property upon which the sign stands upon notice
of the City Council.
   (H)   Where a sign is illuminated, the source of light shall not shine upon
any part of a residence or into any residence district or any roadway.
   (I)   No advertising or business sign shall be permitted in any residential
district, except signs advertising a permitted home occupation limited to an
overall area of four square feet.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.202 SPECIAL AND TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   One identification sign, not exceeding 35 square feet in area, shall be
permitted for the following uses: church, school, hospital, parks and
recreation areas or similar uses. The signs shall be solely for the name of the
use and its activities and may be illuminated, but not flashing.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.203 ADVERTISING SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Advertising signs shall be limited to no more than two signs per
facing or total of no more than four signs per structure.
   (B)   Advertising signs shall be limited to not more than 30 feet in total
length and a height of 14 feet above average grade.
   (C)   Advertising signs shall be limited to an overall surface area on one
side to 250 square feet.
   (D)   No advertising sign structure shall be located within a radius of
1,000 feet of any existing advertising sign unless located in a business or
industry district. Then they will be limited to not more than one for a lot of
100 feet frontage and to only one per each additional 100 feet of frontage.
   (E)   No advertising sign shall be located within 100 feet of a dwelling, an
adjoining residential district, an at-grade intersection of two or more roads
or an at-grade intersection of any road and a railroad.
   (F)   No advertising sign shall be permitted within ten feet of a road or
highway right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.204 BUSINESS SIGNS.
   (A)   No more than one freestanding or pylon sign of not more than 35 square
feet in surface area or more than 14 feet in height shall be permitted.
   (B)   The total surface area of all business signs on a lot shall not exceed
the sum of three square feet per lineal foot of lot frontage or 20% of the
front building surface area on which the sign is located or 300 square feet in
surface area, whichever is greater.
   (C)   No business sign shall project above the permitted building height of
the district in which the sign is to be located.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.205 LICENSES AND PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, the owner or other
person have having control of any sign, except residential, professional and
institutional name plate signs and church signs, shall file an application for
a permit to install and maintain a sign subject to the approval of the Planning
Commission and City Council.
   (B)   The permit and inspection fee for advertising and business signs shall
be established by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   All signs not maintained and kept in good repair shall be subject to
removal upon direction of the Council.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.206 SIGNS IN A STATE GENERAL ELECTION YEAR.
   All non-commercial signs of any size may be posted from August 1 in a state
general election year until ten days following the state general election.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.215 ENFORCEMENT; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the City Council or
its authorized representative.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions hereof
or who shall make any false statement in any document required to be submitted
under the provisions hereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be fined or be imprisoned the maximum permitted by state
statutes and each day that a violation exists shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.216 BUILDING PERMITS.
   No building or structure shall hereafter be erected or moved or construction
on an existing structure shall be started until a lawful building permit has
been issued by the Building Inspector or his or her designated representatives.
Fees for all building permits shall be established by the City Council in
accordance with the State Building Code.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
Penalty, see § 153.999
§ 153.217 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No building or structure hereafter erected shall be occupied or used in
whole or in part until a certificate of occupancy is issued stating that the
building or structure complies with the provisions of this chapter. The
certificate of occupancy shall be issued upon conducting a final inspection
finding the building or structure satisfactory.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.218 AMENDMENTS; REZONING.
   (A)   The City Council or Planning Commission may, upon their own motion,
initiate a request to amend the text or the district boundaries of this
chapter. Any person, persons, firm or corporation or his or her expressed agent
owning real estate within the jurisdiction of this chapter may initiate a
request to amend the district boundaries and/or text of this chapter so as to
affect the real estate.
   (B)   A request plus copies of detailed written and graphic materials fully
explaining the proposal for an amendment to this chapter shall be filed with
the Clerk/Treasurer and shall be accompanied by a fee, as required by
resolution of the City Council. The fee shall be nonrefundable.
      (1)   The Clerk/Treasurer shall refer the amendment request along with
all related information to the Planning Commission for consideration and a
report and recommendation shall be made to the City Council.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall set a date for the official public
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be published in conformance with the state
law and individual notices, if it is a district change request, shall be mailed
not less that ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing to all owners
of property, according too the assessment records, within 350 feet of the
parcel included in the request, the notice shall also be published in the
official paper within the above time periods. Failure of a property owner to
receive the notice shall not invalidate any proceedings as set forth within
this chapter.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall reach a decision and make its report to
the City Council within a time period so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99, “Time
Deadlines for Agency Action,” as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   The Council, shall upon receiving no report from the Planning
Commission within a specified time period so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99, as
it may be amended from time to time, shall place the request on the agenda of
its next regularly scheduled meeting and decide the issue so that compliance
with the statute is achieved.
   (E)   Upon receiving the reports and recommendation of the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall place the amended request on the agenda of
the next regularly scheduled meeting and the decide the issue so that
compliance with the statute is achieved. The reports and recommendations shall
be entered in and made part of the permanent written record of the City Council
meeting.
   (F)   The City Council shall have the option to set and hold a public
hearing if deemed necessary for reaching a decision.
   (G)   Amendment of this chapter shall be by a two-thirds vote of the full
City Council.
   (H)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall notify the originator of the amendment
request of the Council’s decision in writing.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.219 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   The Board of Adjustment shall be the City Council and shall act upon all
questions as they may arise in the administration of this chapter, including
the interpretation of zoning maps, and it shall hear and decide appeals from
and review any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official charged with enforcing this chapter. The appeal may be
taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer, department board or commission
of the city. The Board of Adjustment shall have power to vary or adapt the
strict application of any of the requirements of this chapter in the case of
exceptionally irregular, narrow or shallow lots or other exceptional physical
conditions, whereby strict application would result in practical difficulty and
unnecessary hardship that would deprive the owner of the reasonable use of the
land or building involved, but in no other uses except as specifically
described. Any appeals on a Board of Adjustment decision shall be final except
the appeal to District Court.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.220 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   No variance in the provisions or requirements of this chapter shall be
authorized by the Board of Adjustment, unless it finds evidence that all the
facts and conditions exist:
      (1)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or conditions
applying to the property in question as to the intended use of the property
that do not apply generally to other properties in the same zoning district.
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right similar to that possessed by other properties in the
same district and in the same vicinity. The possibility of increased financial
return shall not in itself be deemed sufficient to warrant a variance.
      (3)   The authorizing of a variance will not be of substantial detriment
to adjacent property and will not be of substantial detriment to adjacent
property and will not materially impair the intent and purpose of this chapter
or the public interest.
      (4)   The condition or situation of the specific piece of property, or
the intended use of the property, for which the variance is sought, is not of
so general or recurrent a nature as to make reasonably practicable the
formulation of a general regulation for the conditions or situation.
      (5)   In granting a variance, the Board of Adjustment may impose
conditions to insure compliance and to protect adjacent properties. The Board
of Adjustment may not permit as a variance any use that is not permitted under
this chapter for the property in the district where the affected person’s land
is located.
   (B)   Requests for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer and shall be accompanied by a fee, as required by Council resolution,
along with material explaining the request.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consider the request at its next
regular meeting and shall make a recommendation to the City Council (Board of
Adjustment) within a time period so as to comply with M.S. § 15.99, “Time
Deadlines for Agency Action,” as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Upon receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission the
Board of Adjustment shall set and hold a public hearing on the request. Notice
of the hearing shall be mailed not less than ten days nor more than 30 days to
property owners within 350 feet of the affected parcel as determined by the
Zoning Administrator. The notice shall also be published in the official
newspaper within the above time period. Failure of a property owner to receive
the notice shall not invalidate any proceedings.
      (3)   A variance of this chapter shall be by two-thirds vote of the full
Board of Adjustment.
      (4)   Within a time period consistent with the requirements of M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, the City Council acting as the
Board of Adjustment shall make its order deciding the matter and serve a copy
of the order upon the petitioner by mail.
   (C)   If within one year after granting a variance the work permitted is not
started, a variance shall become null and void unless a petition for an
extension has been approved by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.221 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section of the zoning chapter is to
provide the City Council with a reasonable degree of discretion in determining
the suitability of certain designated uses upon the general welfare and public
safety.
   (B)   Application. Applications for conditional use permits shall be made to
the Clerk/Treasurer together with required fees. The application shall be
accompanied by a site plan showing the information as is necessary to show
compliance with this chapter, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Description of site (legal description) and zoning;
      (2)   Site plan drawn at scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
      (3)   Location of all building and their square footage;
      (4)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
      (5)   Landscaping and screening plans;
      (6)   Drainage plan;
      (7)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
      (8)   Soil type;
      (9)   Shoreland zoning district boundary, where applicable; and
      (10)   Any additional written or graphic data reasonably required by the
Clerk/Treasurer or the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Procedure. The Clerk/Treasurer shall forward the application to the
Planning Commission for consideration at their next regular meeting.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall set a date for the official public
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall be published in accordance with state law
and notice shall be published at least once in the official paper of the city
and mailed to individual properties within 350 feet of the parcel included in
the request not less than ten days nor more than 30 days prior to the date of
the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any proceedings.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall consider the possible adverse effects
of the proposed conditional use and what additional requirements may be
necessary to reduce any adverse effects, and shall make a recommendation to the
City Council within a time period so that the requirements of M.S. § 15.99,
“Time Deadlines for Agents Action,” as it may be amended from time to time, may
be achieved by the City Council.
      (3)   Upon receiving the report and recommendation for the Planning
Commission, the City Council shall have the option of holding a public hearing
if necessary and may impose any conditions deemed necessary. Approval of a
conditional use shall require passage by a two-thirds vote of the full City
Council.
   (D)   Standards. No conditional use shall be recommended by the Planning
Commission unless the Commission shall find:
      (1)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted;
      (2)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for
predominant uses in the area;
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or control
offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these will
constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in a
manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result;
      (6)   Proper facilities are provided which would eliminate any traffic
congestion or traffic hazard which may result from the proposed use;
      (7)   The demonstrated need for the proposed use; and
      (8)   The proposed use is in compliance with any land use plan adopted by
the city.
   (E)   Recording. A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be
filed with the County Recorder. The conditional use permit shall include the
legal description of the property involved.
   (F)   Fees. To defray administrative costs of processing request conditional
use permits, a fee as required by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid
by the applicant at the time the application is requested. The city shall also
be reimbursed for any additional costs associated with review of a proposal as
set by the City Council.
   (G)   Compliance. Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use
permit shall be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of the
permits and of any conditions designated in connection therewith.
   (H)   Planned unit development. The purpose of this section is to provide
for the grouping of land parcels for development as an integrated, coordinated
unit as opposed to traditional parcel by parcel, piecemeal, sporadic and
unplanned approach to development. This division is intended to introduce
flexibility of site design and architecture for the conservation of land and
open space through clustering of buildings and activities. It is further
intended that planned unit developments are to be characterized by central
management, integrated planning and architecture, joint or common use of
parking, maintenance of open space and other similar facilities, and a
harmonious selection and efficient distribution of uses, these regulations are
not intended as subdivision regulations and should not be confused as such.
   (I)   Lapse of conditional use permit by non-use. Whenever within one year
after granting the conditional use permit the work permitted has not been
started, then the permit shall become null and void unless petition for an
extension has been approved by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 3-9-93; Am. Ord. 98-02, passed 11-10-98; Am. Ord. 00-01, passed 5-
9-00; Am. Ord. 00-03, passed 6-13-00)
§ 153.222 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses
to:
      (1)   To allow a use for a temporary period of time until a permanent
location is obtained or while the permanent location is under construction;
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently judged acceptable by the City
Council, but that with anticipated development or redevelopment, will not be
acceptable in the future or will be replaced in the future by a permitted or
conditional use allowed within the respective district; or
      (3)   To allow a use which is reflective of anticipated long-range change
to an area and which is in compliance with the Comprehensive Plan provided that
said use maintains harmony and compatibility with surrounding uses and is in
keeping with the architectural character and design standards of existing uses
and development.
   (B)   Procedure. An application for an interim use permit requires a public
hearing and is to be processed in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Chapter 153 of this code.
   (C)   Criteria. The Planning Commission shall consider possible effects of
the proposed interim use. Its judgment shall be based upon, but not limited to,
the factors outlined in this section.
   (D)   Minimum standards. As may be applicable, the evaluation of any
proposed interim use permit request shall be subject to and include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   The general performance standards and criteria outlined in this
zoning ordinance;
      (2)   A determination that the date, or event that will terminate the
use, can be identified with certainty;
      (3)   The use will not impose additional unreasonable costs on the
public;
      (4)   The user agrees to any conditions that the City Council deems
appropriate for permission of the use; and
      (5)   The use is allowed as an interim use in the respective zoning
district.
   (E)   Termination. An interim use shall terminate on the happening of any of
the following events, whichever occurs first:
      (1)   The date or event stated in the permit.
      (2)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued.
      (3)   Upon change in the zoning ordinance which renders the use non-
conforming.
      (4)   The property is redeveloped to a permitted or conditional use
allowed in the respective zone district.
(Ord. 20-01Z, passed 7-14-20)
B-3, BUSINESS DISTRICT—ADJACENT TO RAILROAD
§ 153.235 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for the establishment of
commercial and service activities which serve the needs of the community and
region and to provide multiple use buildings in an area which has certain
limitations due to the location of the railroad tracks.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.236 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are specific business types which are permitted uses in
the B-3 district. Any other uses shall be subject to a judgment by the Planning
Commission and City Council for the designation as a permitted use in this zone
district.
   (A)   Antique and craft stores;
   (B)   Apparel and accessory stores;
   (C)   Appliance stores, sales and service;
   (D)   Art galleries;
   (E)   Artist studio and schools;
   (F)   Bakeries, retail;
   (G)   Banks, including drive through banks;
   (H)   Barber and beauty salons;
   (I)   Bookstores;
   (J)   Electronic stores;
   (K)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
   (L)   Candy, ice cream, and confectionery stores;
   (M)   Clinics, dental, medical, veterinary;
   (N)   Dairy stores;
   (O)   Delicatessen stores;
   (P)   Department stores;
   (Q)   Dressmaking, seamstress;
   (R)   Drug stores;
   (S)   Floral stores;
   (T)   Furniture stores and home furnishing;
   (U)   Garden supply stores;
   (V)   Gift, novelty or souvenir stores;
   (W)   Government and municipal buildings;
   (X)   Grocery stores;
   (Y)   Hardware stores;
   (Z)   Health equipment stores;
   (AA)   Hobby shops;
   (BB)   Interior decorators;
   (CC)   Jewelry stores;
   (DD)   Laboratories, dental and medical;
   (EE)   Laundromats;
   (FF)   Leather goods and luggage shops;
   (GG)   Liquor stores;
   (HH)   Locksmiths;
   (II)   Meat markets and frozen food lockers;
   (JJ)   Mortuaries;
   (KK)   Music stores and accessories;
   (LL)   Offices of any type;
   (MM)   Opticians;
   (NN)   Optical goods;
   (OO)   Paint and Wallpaper stores;
   (PP)   Parking lots and garages, other than those necessary to a principal
use, for the parking of automobiles only;
   (QQ)   Photographic studios or picture processing;
   (RR)   Public utility services and uses;
   (SS)   Repair, rental and servicing of any article the sale of which is
permitted in this district;
   (TT)   Restaurants;
   (UU)   Shoe repair shops
   (VV)   Sporting goods stores;
   (WW)   Office supply and product stores;
   (XX)   Tailors;
   (YY)   Telephone exchanges;
   (ZZ)   Toy stores;
   (AAA)   Travel bureaus or agencies;
   (BBB)   Car washes.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.237 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses shall be permitted accessory uses in the district:
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading areas as regulated by the Waverly
Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Commercial or business buildings for a use accessory to the principal
use.
   (C)   Signs as regulated by the Waverly Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.238 CONDITIONAL USES. 
   The following uses shall require a Conditional Use Permit, as regulated in
this chapter.
   All B-3 Conditional Use Applications will be considered and meet the
criteria listed under §153.239; Interim Use permits.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.239 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter:
   (A)   Automobile service stations, gasoline service stations, and automobile
repair garages provided that no gasoline distribution station shall be located
within 200 feet of a school, church, hospital or meeting place having seating
capacity of more than 50 persons;
   (B)   Bars, taverns, including lounges, night clubs; and
   (C)   Automobile sales businesses provided that compliance is achieved with
all pertinent sections of this subchapter.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.240 LOT AREA AND DEPTH/WIDTH REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No lot area requirements shall exist in this district.
   (B)   A minimum lot width of 100 feet shall be required.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.241 YARDS, FRONT, SIDE, REAR AND SETBACKS (MINIMUM REQUIRED).
   (A)   No front yard setback shall be required.
   (B)   No rear yard setback shall be required.
   (C)   No side yard setback shall be required.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.242 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   Building height shall not exceed 45 feet.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.243 PARKING LOT STANDARDS.
   Compliance with
§ 153.178(B) is required with the exception that parking lots in this zone
district will be required to be constructed and maintained with blacktop or
concrete material only and proper surface water drainage is maintained.
(Ord. 01-01, passed 6-12-01; Am. Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
LANDSCAPING REGULATIONS
§ 153.255 TITLE.
   This chapter of the city code of ordinances, providing for the
administration and enforcement of landscaping regulations, shall be known and
may be cited and referred to as the Landscaping Ordinance of the City of
Waverly, MN.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.256 INTENT.
   The intent of this chapter is to establish minimum standards for the
preservation, installation, and maintenance of landscape plantings and
landscaped open space in residential, commercial and industrial districts, to
utilize landscaping and landscaping open space as an effective means of energy
conservation, to preserve open space, to improve property values, and to
maintain the aesthetic quality of the city, thereby promoting the health and
general welfare of the city.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.257 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Landscaping plantings shall not be placed so as to interfere with site
drainage.
   (B)   Landscape plantings shall not be placed in any public utility easement
unless specifically permitted on the approved site plan.
   (C)   Plantings shall not be placed where they may interfere with the
maintenance of sanitary or storm structures, fire hydrants, or water valves, or
any other public utility.
   (D)   Landscape planting may not be placed within the public street right-
of-way unless previously approved by the City Council.
   (E)   The vision clearance triangle shall be maintained at all times.
   (F)   All disturbed areas shall be restored with sod or seed, unless
specifically approved otherwise. In residential districts or uses, the entire
front yard, side yard, and rear yard to the building setback line shall be
sodded. In all districts, the adjacent right-of-way shall be sodded.
   (G)   In sites where vegetation existed and was retained during development,
the required minimum quantity of planting may be reduced with two existing
plantings equivalent to one required planting. No more than 50% of the required
plants may be waived in this manner. Plants to be exchanged shall meet minimum
size requirements as established herein.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.258 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   The provisions below represent the minimum standards required for compliance
with this chapter. These regulations are not intended to suppress creative
design concepts or the use of variety in the landscape plan. Whenever
practical, existing trees and vegetation should be preserved and incorporated
into the overall design and layout of the site.
   (A)   Minimum size. The minimum size for required plantings, other than
those in required buffers, shall be as follows:
      (1)   Deciduous overstory trees shall be a minimum size of two-inch
caliper at two feet above ball.
      (2)   Evergreen trees shall be a minimum height of six feet above grade.
      (3)   Ornamental trees shall be a minimum one and one-half-inch caliper
in size.
   (B)   Minimum quantity. The minimum number of plantings per site shall be as
follows:
      (1)   Two trees shall be overstory shade trees.
      (2)   For all uses except one- and two-family residential dwellings, a
minimum of 25% of all required trees shall be evergreen trees.
      (3)   For single-family residential, one-half of the tree requirement
shall be provided in the rear yard.
   (C)   Planting requirement. Values expressed in the table below are in
addition to plantings required in buffer, screening, or parking lot plantings.
 
                     Residential                  PUD, B-2, Commercial,
                                                   Industrial
                      Two trees per dwelling unit  Three trees per 2,000 square
Planting requirement: (does not include street     feet of provided open space
                      trees)
 
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.259 SLOPES AND WALLS.
   (A)   Slope. In no case shall a maintained slope be greater than 3:1. If a
slope is greater than 3:1, appropriate maintenance-free landscaping, ground
cover, and/or riprap shall be required.
   (B)   Retaining walls. In cases where the use and construction of a
retaining wall is required to preserve slope or provide additional developable
land, such retaining wall shall be designed and constructed in such a way as to
preserve a residential scale and character.
   (C)   Walls above four feet.  
      (1)   All retaining walls above a height of four feet shall be tiered to
allow the provision of landscaping to soften the wall.
      (2)   Walls with a height greater than four feet shall require a building
permit.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.260 BUFFERS.
   (A)   It shall be recognized that the transition from one district to
another district of contrasting and conflicting uses is across a line in
theory, not in existence. Therefore, it shall be the intent of this chapter to
require the actual provision of a physical barrier so as to reduce possible
harmful or detrimental influence one zoning district use may have to an
abutting and contrasting or conflicting zoning district use.
   (B)   Conditions requiring a buffer:
      (1)   Any lot in any residential or industrial district platted after the
effective date of this chapter, having both its front and rear lot lines
abutting a public thoroughfare, shall require a 30-foot buffer along and
measured from the rear lot line. Lot depth should be increased appropriately to
provide equivalent usable open space.
      (2)   Buffer zones will be required where residential adjoins industrial,
commercial, or business uses.
   (C)   Buffer requirements:
      (1)   A permanent earthen berm shall be provided were a buffer is
required. Such berm shall be the minimum height as provided below. In no case
shall a berm slope exceed 3:1.
      (2)   Buffing will be 50 feet in width and 6 feet in height with 10 foot
planting. Berms should be of natural design, with undulating heights and
variety of landscape material.
      (3)   Minimum buffer planting size shall be as follows:
         (a)   Deciduous overstory - 21/4 inches.
         (b)   Evergreen - 6 feet in height.
         (c)   Ornamental - 13/4 inches.
      (4)   In addition to the required permanent landscape buffer, the City
Council may require a fence to provide additional screening.
      (5)   Required yards shall be measured from the lot lines. Buffer yards
may be included in yards required by this chapter. No building, parking, or
structures shall be permitted within any buffer, unless authorized by the City
Council.
      (6)   In a residential subdivision, the developer of the subdivision
shall be required to install the buffer improvements as required by this
chapter. The owner of the property on which the buffer is located shall
maintain the buffer in perpetuity.
      (7)   In a situation where landscape requirements other than buffer
requirements are required, those buffer requirements shall be in addition to
all other requirements.
      (8)   The need to establish a buffer as an easement shall be reviewed and
identified during the development review process. Easements shall generally be
required between different zoning districts and for buffering requirements of
residential districts.
      (9)   For single-family residential subdivisions, the landscape buffer
shall be submitted for review and approval as public improvements, at the same
time as the preliminary plat. For any type of development that requires a site
plan review, the buffer plans shall be submitted as a part of the site plan
submittal.
   (D)   The City Council may reduce the required buffer under the following
conditions:
      (1)   Where the boundary line abuts permanent natural features which
function as a buffer, including, but not limited to ponds, severe grades, or
mature woodlands. The City Council may reduce the requirement in proportions
that the natural features fulfill the requirement.
      (2)   In those areas where the property abuts undeveloped property that
is shown on the comprehensive plan as the same or a more intensive use.
      (3)   The abutting property has provided a portion or the entire required
buffer.
      (4)   On lots that have been platted or zoned prior to the adoption date
of this chapter that can present evidence that the required buffer would render
the property unbuildable, the Council may permit the construction of a
substantial fence, as defined herein, not less than six feet in height.
Landscaping provisions to soften the visual appearance of the fence shall be
required.
      (5)   In those areas that abut a public park, the buffer area for that
portion of the boundary may be reduced.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.261 STREET TREES.
   Along every development street trees shall be provided, in accordance with
the following requirements:
   (A)   Commercial (B-2, B-3)/ Industrial (I-1) lots shall provide one
overstory shade tree per 40 lineal feet of lot frontage. Such trees shall be of
species approved by the City Council. Such trees shall be located within the
street right-of-way.
   (B)   Residential (R-1, PUD) developments shall provide one overstory shade
tree per 40 lineal feet of street frontage. Such trees shall be of species
approved by the City Council at the time of preliminary plat. Such trees shall
be located within the street right-of-way.
   (C)   In any development requiring more than 20 trees, no species selected
for planting shall exceed 20% of the overall total of trees being planted.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.262 PARKING LOTS.
   In any off-street parking and loading area that contains more than 20
parking spaces, a minimum of 10% of the total hard surface area shall be
utilized for landscaping, screening, and/or open space. The minimum
requirements for off-street parking areas shall be as follows:
   (A)   All rows of parking spaces shall be provided a terminal island to
protect parked vehicles, define driveways, confine moving traffic to driveways,
and provide space for landscaping.
   (B)   There shall be provided within each row of parking spaces, landscaped
islands located so as to prevent more than 12 vehicles from being parked side-
by-side in an abutting configuration.
   (C)   One ornamental or conifer tree shall be provided per 12 parking
spaces. Such tree shall be located as to impact the visual effect of the
parking surface.
   (D)   Each tree shall be allocated a minimum landscape surface area of 200
square feet, exclusive of other shade trees.
   (E)   All interior landscaped areas not dedicated to trees or to
preservation of existing vegetation shall be landscaped with grass, ground
cover, shrubs, or other appropriate landscaping treatment. Pavement, gravel, or
similar treatment shall not be considered appropriate landscape treatment.
   (F)   Parking lot planting areas shall not be designed to accommodate winter
snow storage.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.263 OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Intent. The extensive and excessive congestion of land may become
hazardous to the general health and welfare of the community. Therefore, the
intent of this chapter shall be to require not less than that private open
space which is necessary to preserve and provide the basic qualities and beauty
of nature.
   (B)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   A percentage of open space shall be provided for each site in each
district as outlined below:
 
B-1 B-2 B-3 PUD I-1
10  10  10  10  10
 
      (2)   The calculation of required open space shall include the entire
limits of the lot, exclusive of the required buffer area. Provided open space
shall not include required buffer areas.
   (C)   Maintenance of open space. All open space and common areas shall be
under single management or control, and shall be maintained and preserved in
accordance with the site plan requirements.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
§ 153.264 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Landscaping as approved by a site plan shall be maintained in good
condition so as to present a healthy, neat, and orderly appearance at all
times. Landscaping shall be maintained to minimize property damage and public
safety hazards, including the removal/ replacement of dead or decaying plant
material, removal of low-hanging branches and those obstructing street lighting
and maintenance of sight distance standards as set forth. Landscaping shall be
maintained in accordance with the following standards:
      (1)   Landscaping shall be kept visually free of insects and disease;
      (2)   Landscaping areas shall be kept free from weeds and other volunteer
plants;
      (3)   Irrigation systems shall be maintained so as to eliminate water
loss due to damaged, missing, or improperly operating sprinkler system
components.
   (B)   In the event a tree, shrub, or other plant causes damage to streets,
sidewalks, trails, or other public improvements, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall
order the removal and replacement of the offending plants.
   (C)   All dead or diseased landscape plantings shall be replaced by the
property owner with equivalent material in a timely fashion, or within 30 days,
following written notice from the city.
   (D)   (1)   If any landscaping is removed in violation of an approved site
plan or plat, the property owner shall plant three times such amount, of equal
quality and size, on such site or plat.
      (2)   If it is impractical to replace such landscaping with an equal
size, then several smaller-sized plantings, totaling, in aggregate, three times
the size of the improperly removed landscaping, shall be required. If it is
deemed unfeasible to plant all the required plantings on the site, the city may
require that portions of this requirement be planted on public property.
   (E)   Failure to maintain landscaping in accordance with the approved site
plan shall constitute a violation of the approved site plan.
(Ord. 02-11, passed 5-13-03)
RB-1, RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 153.285 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this district is to allow the continuation of existing
residential and commercial development in an older area of the cit adjacent to
a major transportation corridor where municipal sewer and water systems are
available and where existing development is mixed residential and commercial.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 8-12-03)
§ 153.286 USES.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family residential structures and duplexes;
      (2)   Churches, chapels and parish houses;
      (3)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Historic sites;
      (5)   Signs;
      (6)   Public buildings such as post offices, city halls, fire and police
stations;
      (7)   Essential services - telephone, telegraph, and power lines and
necessary appurtenant equipment and structures;
      (8)   Personal services such as laundry, barber, shoe repair, and
photography;
      (9)   Professional services such as doctors, chiropractors, dentists,
architects, accountants, and attorneys; and
      (10)   Banks, finance, insurance and real estate offices.
   (B)   Accessory uses.  Uses incidental to a permitted use, including
specifically, but not exclusively, private garages, carports, screen houses,
swimming pools, storage buildings for use of occupants of the principal
structures, off-street parking, loading and unloading areas, indoor storage of
merchandise.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Apartments;
      (2)   Home occupations;
      (3)   Commercial establishments which have limited hours of operation,
limited vehicle traffic, limited noise and lighting emissions and which have
limited impacts on residential uses, offering merchandise or services to the
general public in return for compensation, including specifically, but not
exclusively:
         (a)   Retail establishments such as grocery, bakery, department,
hardware, lumber, building materials, drug, clothing and furniture stores;
         (b)   Lodging and rooming houses, bed and breakfast facilities;
         (c)   Funeral homes; and
         (d)   Repair services such as jewelry and electronics repair.
   (D)   Interim uses. The following uses shall require an interim use permit
as regulated in this chapter:
      (1)   Outdoor sales and service of the following: farm implement
equipment, automobiles and parts, recreational vehicles including but not
limited to motorized golf carts, campers, and all terrain vehicles. Outdoor
sales lots are subject to the regulations of the Waverly City Code of
Ordinances
Chapter 113. Minnesota business licensing must be active and in good standing
including dealership, air quality, and other similar state requirements for
sales business types.
      (2)   Exterior and/or interior storage associated with a primary business
including but not limited to inoperable vehicles being used for parts, bulk
storage of materials, tires, or other piles of stock items.
      (3)   Temporary sales lots including farm products including produce and
temporary open outdoor sales, service or rental as an accessory use provided
the area is fenced or screened from abutting properties, sales areas are
surfaced to control dust.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 8-12-03; Am. Ord. 20-01Z, passed 7-14-20)
§ 153.287 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Height regulations. The maximum height of all buildings shall not
exceed 2 1/2 stories or 35 feet.
   (B)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   Required right-of-way         Road classifications
         40 feet               State highway
         30 feet               County road
         30 feet               City street
      The exception to these setback requirements is in a block where two or
more principal structures have already been constructed facing the same street
- the setbacks for the remaining lots in that block fronting on the same street
shall be determined by the average setback of the existing buildings.
      (2)   Side and rear yard regulations
         Side yard - 10 feet
         Rear yard - 30 feet
   (C)   The minimum lot area shall be 9,000 square feet.
   (D)   Lot width and depth. Lot width - 75 feet.
   (E)   General regulations. Requirements for signs, parking and other items
are set forth in other sections of the Waverly Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 8-12-03)
R-2, RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 153.300 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for the orderly development of
suburban residential areas close to existing municipalities and to avoid urban
sprawl within the city; permit the development of single- and two-family
dwelling; to provide reasonable standards for the development; to avoid
overcrowding; to prohibit the use of land which would be incompatible with or
detrimental to the essential residential character of the districts; and to
provide for larger lot sizes than the R-1 district.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.301 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-2 district.
   (A)   Single- and two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Essential services;
   (D)   Agriculture other than the raising and keeping of animals as defined
in §
92.20 and the regulations as set forth as amended regarding animals (§
92.20 et seq.);
   (E)   Uses which are determined by the Council to be of a similar nature;
and
   (F)   All single-family dwellings, including manufactured homes and site-
built homes, shall comply with the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Building shall be anchored to a permanent concrete or treated wood
foundation, in accord with UBC standards.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum floor area of 800 square feet.
      (3)   The minimum width of the structure shall be 24 feet, as measured
across the narrowest portion. Width measurements shall not take into account
overhangs nor other projections beyond principal walls.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum 3:12 roof pitch with a minimum 12-inch
soffit. Alternative roof styles may be approved by the Building Inspector based
on generally accepted construction practices, building codes and the nature of
the surrounding neighborhood Unadorned flat roofs shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Only new units shall be permitted. The relocation of previously
occupied units shall require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
Cross-reference:
   Standards for the keeping of animals, see §§
92.20 et seq.
§ 153.302 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-1 district.
   (A)   Private garages, parking spaces and carports for passenger cars,
trucks, recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (B)   Home occupation, as defined;
   (C)   Tool houses and similar buildings for storage of domestic equipment
and noncommercial recreational equipment;
   (D)   Swimming pools and tennis courts; and
   (E)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two persons.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.303 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall require a conditional use permit based on the
procedures set forth herein.
   (A)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   Public or semipublic recreational buildings, community centers and
day-care centers;
   (C)   Nursing homes, rest homes and homes for the aged provided that
adequate parking is provided and the site is accessible to commercial service
areas;
   (D)   Churches, schools, libraries, museums, hospitals, memorial buildings
and similar uses; and
   (E)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined: three or more family dwellings.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.304 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Nurseries, not including greenhouses, truck gardens, displays, sales
of agricultural products;
   (B)   Community based family-care home or day care homes not licensed by the
state; and
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined: two or less family dwellings.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.305 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   The minimum area for single-family homes shall be 11,500 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum area for two-family homes shall be 15,000 square feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot width at the public right-of-way lines all be 75 feet.
   (D)   Multiple-family dwellings shall have an area of 18,000 square feet for
a triplex, plus 1,500 square feet for each additional unit.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.306 YARDS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard setbacks shall be 40 feet from the right-of-way line of
federal and state highways.
   (B)   Front yard buildings setbacks shall be 30 feet from all other public
rights-of-way, including county roads and city streets.
   (C)   Corner lots shall require front yard setbacks on all sides along a
public street.
   (D)   Side yard setbacks shall be 15 feet.
   (E)   Rear yard setbacks shall be 30 feet.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.307 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   No residential building hereafter erected or altered shall exceed 35 feet in
height.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
R-3, RESIDENCE DISTRICT
§ 153.320 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this district to provide for the orderly development of
suburban residential areas close to existing municipalities and to avoid urban
sprawl within the city; permit the development of single- and two-family
dwelling; to provide reasonable standards for the development; to avoid
overcrowding; to prohibit the use of land which would be incompatible with or
detrimental to the essential residential character of the districts; and to
provide for larger lot sizes than the R-2 district.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.321 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-3 district.
   (A)   Single- and two-family dwellings;
   (B)   Public parks and playgrounds;
   (C)   Essential services;
   (D)   Agriculture other than the raising and keeping of animals as defined
in §92.20 and the regulations as set forth as amended regarding animals (§92.20
et seq.);
   (E)   Uses which are determined by the Council to be of a similar nature;
and
   (F)   All single-family dwellings, including manufactured homes and site-
built homes, shall comply with the following minimum standards:
      (1)   Building shall be anchored to a permanent concrete or treated wood
foundation, in accord with UBC standards.
      (2)   There shall be a minimum floor area of 800 square feet.
      (3)   The minimum width of the structure shall be 24 feet, as measured
across the narrowest portion. Width measurements shall not take into account
overhangs nor other projections beyond principal walls.
      (4)   There shall be a minimum 3:12 roof pitch with a minimum 12-inch
soffit. Alternative roof styles may be approved by the Building Inspector based
on generally accepted construction practices, building codes and the nature of
the surrounding neighborhood. Unadorned flat roofs shall be prohibited.
      (5)   Only new units shall be permitted. The relocation of previously
occupied units shall require a conditional use permit.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
Cross-reference:
   Standards for the keeping of animals, see §§
92.20 et seq.
§ 153.322 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted in the R-3 district.
   (A)   Private garages, parking spaces and carports for passenger cars,
trucks, recreational vehicles and equipment;
   (B)   Home occupation, as defined;
   (C)   Tool houses and similar buildings for storage of domestic equipment
and noncommercial recreational equipment;
   (D)   Swimming pools and tennis courts; and
   (E)   Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two persons.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.323 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses shall require a conditional use permit based on the
procedures set forth herein.
   (A)   Governmental and public utility buildings and structures necessary for
the health, safety and general welfare of the community;
   (B)   Public or semipublic recreational buildings, community centers and
day-care centers;
   (C)   Nursing homes, rest homes and homes for the aged provided that
adequate parking is provided and the site is accessible to commercial service
areas;
   (D)   Churches, schools, libraries, museums, hospitals, memorial buildings
and similar uses; and
   (E)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined: three or more family dwellings.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.324 INTERIM USES.
   The following uses shall require an interim use permit, as regulated in this
chapter.
   (A)   Nurseries, not including greenhouses, truck gardens, displays, sales
of agricultural products;
   (B)   Community based family-care home or day care homes not licensed by the
state; and
   (C)   Multiple-family dwellings, as defined: two or less family dwellings.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.325 LOT AREA AND WIDTH.
   (A)   The minimum area for single-family homes shall be 15,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum area for two-family homes shall be 15,000 square feet.
   (C)   The minimum lot width at the public right-of-way line shall be 100
feet.
   (D)   Multiple-family dwellings shall have an area of 18,000 square feet for
a triplex, plus 1,500 square feet for each additional unit.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.326 YARDS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Front yard setbacks shall be 40 feet from the right-of-way line of
federal and state highways.
   (B)   Front yard buildings setbacks shall be 30 feet from all other public
rights-of-way, including county roads and city streets.
   (C)   Corner lots shall require front yard setbacks on all sides along a
public street.
   (D)   Side yard setbacks shall be 15 feet.
   (E)   Rear yard setbacks shall be 30 feet 12
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.327 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   No residential building hereafter erected or altered shall exceed 35 feet in
height.
(Ord. 05-01Z, passed 10-11-05)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   MORATORIUMS
      
III.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
16.03    - -         Adopting previous annexations
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
18.01    - -         unincorporated platted land consisting of 30.92 acres in
                     area and 73.14 acres of unplatted land
18.02    2-9-93      Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     platted land not exceeding 60 acres in area
18.03    7-27-93     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
                     platted land not exceeding 60 acres in area
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 3.1
99.02    6-8-99      acres of certain unincorporated land abutting the city
                     limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 0.48
00-03    3-14-00     acres of certain unincorporated land abutting the city
                     limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
00-01    6-16-00     44.70 acres of certain unincorporated land abutting the
                     city limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include four
00-04    6-16-00     acres of certain unincorporated land abutting the city
                     limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include .75
01-03    9-11-01     acres of certain unincorporated unplatted land abutting
                     the city limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include .20
01-04    9-11-01     acres of certain unincorporated abutting unplatted land
                     the city limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 41
2002-05  4-17-02     acres of certain unincorporated unplatted land abutting
                     the city limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include 45
2002-07  7-17-02     acres of certain unincorporated unplatted land abutting
                     the city limits
                     Extending the corporate limits of the city to include
2003-03  8-28-03     40.65 acres of certain unincorporated, unplatted land
                     abutting the city limits
                    
 
TABLE II: MORATORIUMS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Authorizing an 18-month extension of a development
99-01    5-19-91     moratorium for the completion of a land use and
                     transportation study
                     Authorizing a moratorium on the operation of cannabis
                     business for the completion of a study that shall remain
23-01    11-14-23    in effect until January 1, 2025 or until repealed upon the
                     effective date of an applicable ordinance, whichever
                     occurs first.
                    
 
TABLE III: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
9.01     3-6-72      Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company
19.00    7-9-85      Granting a gas distribution franchise to Western Gas
                     Utilities, Inc.
20       - -         Granting a cable television franchise to Valley View
                     Cable, Inc.
22.01    12-13-88    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Wright-
                     Hennepin Cooperative Electric Association
9.02     12-13-88    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Wright-
                     Hennepin Cooperative Electric Association
9.01A    4-14-92     Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company
20.01    6-14-94     Amendment; defining further regulations in Ord. 20
00-02    3-14-00     Granting a cable television franchise to Time Warner Cable
06-01    3-15-06     Granting a open video system franchise to Lakedale
                     Telephone Company
10-03    10-12-10    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company
10-04    10-12-10    Granting a gas distribution franchise to Northern States
                     Power Company
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cite Code Section
M.S. Cite                             Code Section
12.25                                 30.01,
                                      30.05
12.31                                 30.07
Ch. 13D                               31.06
14.57—14.70                         111.36,
                                      111.99
                                      153.218,
15.99                                 153.220,
                                      153.221
16B.59—16B.75                       150.01
16B.62, Subdivision 1                 150.02,
                                      150.03
16B.65                                150.01
16B.65, Subdivision 1                 150.02
16B.69                                150.04
16B.70                                150.03
35.71                                 92.07
84.81—84.928                        72.01
88.16—88.22                         90.70
93.44—93.51                         153.121,
                                      153.138
Ch. 103F                              153.115,
                                      153.162
103G.005, Subdivision 14              53.03
105.42                                153.134
115.01, Subdivision 22                52.03
115.01(8)                             52.01
115.07                                52.01
116.07                                91.25
116.082                               90.61
144.50                                153.005
145A.04                               116.07
145A.05, Subdivision d. 1, d. 7       116.01
152.0263, Subdivision 5               130.03
157.16                                111.03
161.242                               91.16
168B                                  91.15
168B.09, Subdivision 2                91.15
168.10                                91.16
169.01                                91.16
169.041                               91.16,
                                      91.18
169.068                               90.86
Ch. 216D                              93.49
216D.01-.09                           93.49
237.162                               93.46,
                                      93.53
237.163                               93.53
260.185                               131.99
273.124, Subdivision 1(c)             116.03
279.03, Subdivision 1                 116.08
279.05                                116.07
300.06                                93.48
303.06                                114.10
307.08                                153.121
327.31(6)                             153.005
Ch. 329                               110.03
333.01                                114.10
                                      111.01,
                                      111.02,
                                      111.20,
Ch. 340A                              111.23,
                                      111.36,
                                      111.99,
                                      112.01
340A.14, Subdivision 6                111.22
340A.101                              111.03,
                                      111.22
340A.401, Subdivision 1               111.22
340A.404, Subdivision 1(4)            111.55
340A.404, Subdivision 4a              111.22
340A.404, Subdivision 4b              111.22
340A.404, Subdivision 5               111.22
340A.408, Subdivision 2b              111.22
340A.408, Subdivision 3               111.22
340A.408, Subdivision 5               111.23
340A.409                              111.25,
                                      111.54
340A.413                              111.20,
                                      111.55
340A.414                              111.35
340A.504, Subdivision 3               111.22
340A.504, Subdivision 3c              111.22
340A.504, Subdivision 7               111.33
340A.509                              111.02
340A.801                              111.25
342.01                                130.03
343.20—343.235                      92.07
347.31, Subdivision 2                 92.08
347.50—347.54                       92.03,
                                      92.07
347.51                                92.03
                                      115.01,
Ch. 349                               115.02,
                                      115.15
349.11—349.21                       115.99
349.11—349.23                       115.06,
                                      115.07
349.12                                115.04
349.12, Subdivision 25                115.13
349.16                                115.13
349.166                               115.09
349.213                               115.02
364.03, Subdivision 3                 114.19
368.03, Subdivision 2                 114.19
375.51                                116.01
415.11                                32.05
Ch. 429                               93.59
429.071, Subdivision 2                53.11
429.081                               53.08,
                                      53.11
                                      90.01,
429.101                               90.02,
                                      90.43
Ch. 444                               54.01
444.075, Subdivision 3                54.02
                                      93.59,
Ch. 462                               153.115,
                                      153.118,
                                      153.121
462.351—462.365                     33.04,
                                      153.002
462.358                               152.02
462.358, Subdivision 4, paragraph (b) 152.72
462.3593                              153.041
462.3593, Subdivision 9               153.041
463.15—463.26                       90.01
463.251                               150.15,
                                      150.19
463.251, Subdivision 2                150.16
463.251, Subdivision 3                150.16
463.251, Subdivision 4                150.18
471.195                               91.01
471.6985                              111.53
505.02(1)                             153.187
514.67                                90.01
582.031, Subdivision 1, paragraph (b) 150.16
582.032, Subdivision 7                150.16
                                      50.99,
609.03                                90.99,
                                      95.99,
                                      110.99
609.72                                112.01
609.75—609.763                      115.06,
                                      115.99
617.241—617.299                     114.19
1036.005(15)                          153.121
Ch. 1340                              153.128
                                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
2.01     - -         31.01—
                     31.06
2.02     - -         32.01—
                     32.03
3.01     - -         130.02
5.01     - -         50.01—
                     50.06
8.04     - -         112.01
10.02    - -         51.01—
                     51.11
11.01    - -         93.01—
                     93.03
11.02    - -         93.15,
                     93.16
12.02    - -         71.01—
                     71.03
12.03    - -         70.01
13.03    - -         130.01
13.04    - -         93.30—
                     93.34
16.03    - -         T.S.O. I
17.01    - -         94.01—
                     94.07
18.01    - -         T.S.O. I
20       - -         T.S.O. III
                     152.01—
                     152.04,
                     152.15—
                     152.19,
78-1     - -         152.30—
                     152.40,
                     152.50—
                     152.59,
                     152.70—
                     152.73
302      - -         33.01—
                     33.04
9.01     3-6-72      T.S.O. III
2.03     - -76       34.01
—      4-12-83     92.01—
                     92.09
—      11-13-84    71.01—
                     71.03
13.12    6-11-85     95.01
19.00    7-9-85      T.S.O. III
1986-01  9-8-86      51.01—
                     51.11
—      5-12-87     95.01
10.03    6-28-88     52.25—
                     52.29
10.04    6-28-88     52.01—
                     52.10
9.02     12-13-88    T.S.O. III
22.01    12-13-88    T.S.O. III
—      1-10-89     50.01—
                     50.06
Leg. No. 2-12-91     51.01—
                     51.11
99-01    5-19-91     T.S.O. II
9.01A    4-14-92     T.S.O. III
18.02    2-9-93      T.S.O. I
                     153.001—
                     153.006,
                     153.020—
                     153.023,
                     153.025—
                     153.027,
                     153.040—
                     153.043,
                     153.045—
                     153.047,
                     153.060—
                     153.063,
                     153.065,
                     153.075—
                     153.078,
—      3-9-93      153.080—
                     153.082,
                     153.095—
                     153.098,
                     153.100—
                     153.102,
                     153.115—
                     153.139,
                     153.150—
                     153.162,
                     153.175—
                     153.188,
                     153.200—
                     153.205,
                     153.215—
                     153.221
18.03    7-27-93     T.S.O. I
3.03     9-21-93     32.02
20.01    6-14-94     T.S.O. III
97-23    - -97       34.02
98-02    2-10-98     52.01—
                     52.10
98-04    6-9-98      51.01—
                     51.11
98-05    7-14-98     71.05
98-06    8-11-98     71.04
98-07    9-8-98      70.02
                     153.020—
                     153.023,
                     153.025—
                     153.027,
                     153.040—
                     153.043,
                     153.045—
                     153.047,
                     153.060—
                     153.063,
                     153.065,
                     153.075—
                     153.078,
                     153.080—
98-02    11-10-98    153.082,
                     153.095—
                     153.098,
                     153.100—
                     153.102,
                     153.115—
                     153.138,
                     153.139,
                     153.150—
                     153.162,
                     153.175—
                     153.188,
                     153.200—
                     153.205,
                     153.215—
                     153.221
98-08    12-9-98     71.01—
                     71.03
99-01    1-12-99     150.01—
                     150.04
99-25    2-9-99      151.01—
                     151.08
99.02    6-8-99      T.S.O. I
99-03    12-14-99    33.01—
                     33.04
00-02    3-14-00     T.S.O. III
00-03    3-14-00     T.S.O. I
                     153.001—
                     153.006,
                     153.020—
                     153.023,
                     153.025—
                     153.027,
                     153.040—
                     153.043,
                     153.045—
                     153.047,
                     153.060—
                     153.063,
                     153.065,
                     153.075—
                     153.081,
                     153.095—
                     153.101,
                     153.115—
                     153.138,
00-01    5-9-00      153.139,
                     153.150—
                     153.162,
                     153.175—
                     153.078,
                     153.080—
                     153.082,
                     153.095-
                     153.098,
                     153.100-
                     153.102,
                     153.115—
                     153.139,
                     153.150—
                     153.162,
                     153.175—
                     153.188,
                     153.200—
                     153.205,
                     153.215—
                     153.221
                     152.01—
                     152.04,
                     152.15—
                     152.19,
00-02    6-13-00     152.30—
                     152.40,
                     152.50—
                     152.59,
                     152.70—
                     152.73
                     153.020—
                     153.023,
                     153.025—
                     153.027,
                     153.040—
                     153.043,
                     153.045—
                     153.047,
                     153.060—
                     153.063,
                     153.065,
                     153.075—
                     153.078,
                     153.080—
00-03    6-13-00     153.082,
                     153.095—
                     153.098,
                     153.100—
                     153.1012,
                     153.115—
                     153.138,
                     153.139,
                     153.150—
                     153.162,
                     153.175—
                     153.188,
                     153.200—
                     153.205,
                     153.215—
                     153.221
00-01    6-16-00     T.S.O. I
00-04    6-16-00     T.S.O. I
                     53.01—
01-01    4-10-01     53.13,
                     53.99
01-01    6-12-01     153.235—
                     153.242
01-03    9-11-01     T.S.O. I
01-04    9-11-01     T.S.O. I
01-06    11-13-01    152.20
02-01    1-8-02      35.01
                     153.005,
02-01    2-12-02     153.023,
                     153.097,
                     153.189
02-02    1-8-02      33.35—
                     33.41
02-03    1-8-02      71.06
02-04    1-8-02      71.04
2002-05  4-17-02     T.S.O. I
2002-07  7-17-02     T.S.O. I
02-09    8-13-02     71.04
                     114.01—
2002-08  8-13-02     114.19,
                     114.99
2002-10  11-12-02    90.85—
                     90.97
02-11    5-13-03     153.255—
                     153.264
02-13    6-10-03     Adopting Ordinance
03-01    7-8-03      T.S.O. I
03-02    - -         150.01—
                     150.04
2003-03  8-28-03     T.S.O. I
                     115.01—
03-04    9-9-03      115.16,
                     115.99
03-01    8-12-03     153.285 -
                     153.287
03-05    11-12-03    54.01,
                     54.02
04-01    1-13-04     50.05
                     153.115 -
                     153.130,
04-01    8-10-04     153.132 -
                     153.139,
                     153.162
04-02    7-13-04     33.37
04-02    7-13-04     33.37
04-02Z   12-14-04    153.041
04-04    11-9-04     92.20 
                     92.22
04-04Z   1214-04     152.15
05-01    2-8-05      33.38
                     153.020—
                     153.027,
                     153.040—
                     153.047,
                     153.060—
                     153.065,
                     153.075—
05-01Z   10-11-05    153.082,
                     153.095—
                     153.102,
                     153.235—
                     153.243,
                     153.300—
                     153.307,
                     153.320—
                     153.327
06-01    3-15-06     T.S.O. III
06-02    11-14-06    111.33
                     33.02,
07-01    1-9-07      33.03,
                     33.38
07-02    2-13-07     72.01,
                     72.02
07-03    6-12-07     90.38
07-04    7-10-07     152.40
08-01    1-8-08      33.36
08-03    8-12-08     90.37,
                     90.40
                     116.01 -
08-04    10-14-08    116.09,
                     116.99
                     92.02,
                     92.03,
09-01    1-21-09     92.05,
                     92.06,
                     92.09
09-02    5-12-09     32.15 -
                     32.26
09-03    7-14-09     71.06
2010-01  4-13-10     93.45—
                     93.66
10-01Z   9-14-10     153.190
                     95.01,
10-02    8-12-10     95.02,
                     95.99
10-03    10-12-10    T.S.O. III
10-04    10-12-10    T.S.O. III
10-05    12-14-10    90.87
11-01    4-12-11     93.75
11-02    6-14-11     92.35,
                     92.99
11-03    10-11-11    52.11
11-05    9-13-11     71.06
11-06    12-13-11    50.07,
                     50.99
11-07    12-13-11    111.06
12-01    2-14-12     33.02,
                     33.36
12-01Z   12-11-12    153.181
12-02    5-8-12      55.01—
                     55.06
                     116.03—
12-03    8-8-12      116.05,
                     116.07
12-04    12-11-12    150.15—
                     150.19
13-01    12-10-13    71.02
14-02    4-14-15     90.61,
                     90.99
15-01    4-14-15     54.02
15-02    6-9-15      52.12
                     153.096,
15-01Z   8-11-15     153.097,
                     153.099
                     90.15—
16-01    2-9-16      90.27,
                     90.99
                     110.01—
110      5-10-16     110.09,
                     110.99
16-01Z   8-10-16     153.041
17-01    4-11-17     52.11
17-02    4-11-17     90.38—
                     90.43
17-03    4-11-17     71.06
17-04    4-11-17     51.03,
                     51.10
18-01Z   4-10-18     153.061
18-02Z   - -18       152.72
19-01    2-12-19     71.02
19-02    7-15-19     51.10
                     153.063,
20-01Z   7-14-20     153.222,
                     153.286
                     117.01—
117      2-9-21      117.06,
                     117.99
132      11-14-23    130.03
23-01    11-14-23    T.S.O II
                    
 
